The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 16212
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
hfALA WI
SMALLHOLDER A GRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1851-MAI)
January 3, 1997
Agriculture Operations, Eastern and Southern Africa
Agriculture and Environment
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1985 US$ 1.0 = MK 1.72
1986 US$ 1.0 = MK 1.86
1987 US$ 1.0 = MK 2.21
1988 US$ 1.0 = MK 2.56
1989 US$ 1.0 = MK 2.76
1990 US$ 1.0 = MK 2.73
1991 US$ 1.0 = MK 2.80
1992 US$ 1.0 = MK 3.60
1993 US$ 1.0 = MK 4.40
1994 US$ 1.0 = MK 7.90
1995 US$ 1.0=MK 15.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
LOAN FIGURES
All loan figures reported in this document are loan values, which include both principal and interest (for the
initial loan period).
PROJECT-YEAR 1
The Smallholder Agriculture Credit Project became effective September 8, 1988 and the first year of
operation for the Smallholder Agriculture Credit Administration (SACA) was 1988/89. The without project
comparisons made in this document use 1987/88 as the base year.
Vice President: Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director: Barbara Kafka
Technical Manager: Sushma Ganguly
Staff Member: Steven Jaffee



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADD                  Agricultural Development Divisions
CA                   Credit Assistance
CSCF                 Consolidated Smallholder Credit Fund
CSR                  Centre for Social Research
DCA                  Development Credit Agreement
FAs                  Field Assistants
GB                   Grameen Bank
GOM                  Government of Malawi
IAP                  Integrated Agricultural Programmes
IDA                  International Development Association
IFAD                 International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB                  Local Competitive Bidding
MFSP                 Mudzi Financial Services Project
MMF                  Malawi Mudzi Fund
MOALD                Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MRFC                 Malawi Rural Finance Company
NBM                  National Bank of Malawi
NRDP                 National Rural Development Programme
ODA                  Overseas Development Administration
OPC                  Office of the President and Cabinet
POSB                 Post Office Savings Bank
PM                   Person Months
PS                   Principal Secretary
RBM                  Reserve Bank of Malawi
RFSP                 Rural Financial Services Project
SACA                 Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not othensise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AL4A WI
SMALLHOLDER A GRICUL TURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1851-MA I)
Contents
Preface ...............................................................i
Evaluation Summary ..............................................................                                         ii
PART  1: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .............................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES ...............................................................3
C. MAJOR  FACTORS AFFECTING  THE  PROJECT ........................................ 10
D. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................................                      12
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE ..............................................................                           12
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ..............................................................  13
G. ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ..............................................................                       13
H. FUTURE  OPERATIONS ..............................................................                          14
I. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ..............................................................                        14
PART  2: STATISTICAL  TABLES  ...............................                           ...............................  16
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Appendix C-1: SACA Credit Operations
Appendix C-2: Maize Budget (per ha) in Economic Terms
Appendix C-3: Smallholder Crop Hectarage Estimates
D. Map






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1851-MAI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Smallholder Agricultural Credit
Project (SACP) in Malawi, for which IDA Credit 185 1-MAI in the amount of SDR 4.6 million (US$ 6.4
million) was approved on December 22, 1987 and made effective on September 8, 1988. The credit was
formally closed on June 30, 1995 and was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement taking place on July
28, 1994. The delay in closing the project was due to the transfer of the assets and liabilities from the
Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) to its successor organization, the Malawi Rural
Finance Company (MRFC). Cofinancing for the project, amounting to SDR 4.7 million (US$ 6.6 million),
was provided by IFAD.
This ICR is based primarily on a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programmel/ on
behalf of the then Agriculture and Environment Division of the Southern Africa Department (AF 1 AE) of
the World Bank. That mission took place in early 1995 and involved a review of material gathered from the
project files, supervision reports, as well as on findings from field investigations and discussions with Bank
and GOM staff associated with the project.
Further processing of the ICR was delayed as a result of the incomplete nature of this review, an
extended delay in the receipt of substantive comments from the borrower, and a one-year delay in the
preparation of a final, incomplete audit for the project. To complete the review, further information was
gathered during a mission--supervising a follow-on project--in November 1996. The report was finalized by
S. Jaffee (TTL) and reviewed by S. Ganguly (TM, AFTAI).
" Messrs. R. Suppa (Economist/Mission Leader) and P.V.A. Rama Rao (Credit Specialist/Consultant).






-ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1851-MAI)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Prior to the approval of the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (SACP), the Bank group had
provided sixteen loans, totaling US$ 170 million, for agricultural development in Malawi. Of this total,
some US$ 120 million had been provided in support of the smallholder sub-sector. At the time that the
SACP was conceived in the mid-1980s, there was considerable concem about the pace of agricultural
development. Both smallholder and overall agricultural growth had stagnated in the first half of the
1980s and national production of the staple food crop, maize, had declined. This, together with an influx
of refugees from neighboring Mozambique, resulted in a large maize deficit in 1986/87. The slow pace
of technological change and productivity growth within smallholder agriculture was attributed, in part, to
limited access to institutional credit. During the 1970s and 1980s, credit was provided under a range of
separate area-based rural development projects, having varied administrative and accounting procedures,
and involving little scope to re-allocate credit resources to areas where they were needed. Only about 15-
20% of smallholder farmers had access to institutional credit, with the majority of beneficiaries located
in two of the eight Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs).
Project Objectives
2.    The SACP was conceived to support the country's efforts to promote food security and an
expansion and diversification of smallholder production. A broad spectrum of smallholder farm families
throughout the country were expected to benefit from the increased crop production resulting from the
improved farm technology applied with the use of credit and extension. The SACP was to amalgamate
the various location-specific credit programs into a national program.
3.    The primary objective of the project was to transform Malawi's smallholder credit system into a
better-managed, more efficient, lower cost and financially viable national credit delivery system. The
main project components included: (i) the provision of funds for financing both on-farm requirements of
inputs (seasonal or short-term credit) and viable on-farm and off-farm investments (medium-term credit);
(ii) institutional support, including the establishment of a Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
(SACA) and provision for technical assistance and training; and (iii) an IFAD-funded pilot credit and
saving scheme for the rural poor.



-111 -
Implementation Experience and Results
4.     Implementation record. The major objective of increasing credit support to smallholder
farmers was substantially achieved, yet due to declining loan repayment rates this credit expansion could
not be sustained. The credit disbursed to smallholders by SACA grew in nominal terms from MK 43.5
million (U.S.$17 million equivalent) during its first year (1988/89) to MK 144.7 million (UJ.S.$33
million) in 1992/93. The number of participating farmer clubs (and club members) increased from the
pre-SACA level of 9,072 (with 242,500 members) in 1987/88, to a peak level of 15,650 clubs (with
392,000 members) in 1992/93, in line with SAR estimates. However, lending declined thereafter and
during the 1993/94 season, disbursements were made to only 4,155 clubs.
5.     Although loan recoveries were initially satisfactory, by the end of the project the majority of
clubs remained in default due to several factors, the most important being the 1991/92 drought, the
relaxation of credit eligibility criteria, and widespread political interference in loan recovery and in the
small farm credit system more generally. While seasonal lending met project targets, there was
relatively little lending for medium-term investments (and poor loan recovery thereof) and virtually no
progress on savings mobilization. The seasonal credit disbursed by SACA contributed to the increased
adoption of hybrid maize technology during the late 1980s and early 1990s. Though not the intention of
the project, the SACP also contributed to the expansion of small-scale estate production of tobacco,
through the 'leakage' of credit and inputs from smallholder farmer clubs to the small estates. The Malawi
Mudzi Finance (MMF) pilot scheme met its lending and beneficiary number targets. However, despite
several important organizational and procedural changes, the scheme did not become cost-effective.
6.    In 1988, the credit section within the Ministry of Agriculture was converted into the Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) with, ostensibly, an independent departmental status. In the
course of the project SACA was strengthened through technical assistance, training, and the provision of
office equipment and vehicles. Under the SACP, a national system for smallholder credit was indeed
forged and progress was made in delinking credit from extension. Nevertheless, SACA remained
institutionally weak with poor management information, loan supervision, and financial control systems
and with little capacity to influence national credit policies.
7.     Key factors affecting project achievement. Prior to the creation of SACA, smallholder credit
in Malawi was strongly linked to the influence and administrative apparatus of the governing political
party. Political officials played a strong hand in the selection of credit recipients, in the formation of
credit groups, and in the recovery of loans. Over an extended period, loan recovery rates of 95% or more
prevailed, as much a result of the threat or act of expropriating defaulter assets as due to either the
effectiveness of the MOA's credit section or credit club solidarity and peer pressure. SACA's more
'independent' administration of smallholder credit put greater emphasis on farmer group training and
joint liability. However, SACA's management decisions and loan recovery efforts also came to be
strongly influenced by external political considerations which were contrary to sound banking principles.
This applied to the setting of interest rates, the frequent changes in loan eligibility criteria, the blanket
moratorium of loan repayments following the 1991/92 drought, and the strictures against SACA taking
legal action against defaulters. While these weakened loan recovery discipline and the financial viability
of SACA, the hijacking of credit by rival political parties in 1992/93 brought about the virtual collapse of
the system.
8.     Sustainability. SACA was conceived to emerge as a financially viable system to provide credit
to smallholder farmers. In its initial years it was able to meet its operating costs from its income, yet with
the steep increase in loan defaults from 1991/92 onward, its operations ended up with huge losses. At the



-iv-
end of September 1994, the accumulated loan defaults for SACA stood at MK 263 million. The above,
coupled with the lack of professional expertise of SACA management, organizational and financial
weaknesses, and external political influences, clearly indicate that the project was not sustainable. As
regards the MMF, its organizational arrangements have suffered from high operating costs with
prohibitive overheads, indicating the need for significant adjustments and an expanded outreach to
achieve a measure of sustainability.
9.     Project Costs: The actual project cost was estimated at US$ 14.2 million. Final overall
disbursement includes: IDA US$ 6.4 million, (SDR 4.6 million), IFAD US$ 6.6 million (SDR 4.7
million) and GOM US$ 1.2 million. The IDA credit has been fully utilized and final disbursement took
place on July 28, 1994. IFAD loan 212-MW, under which some SDR 0.2 million were available,
remained open until the Malawi Mudzi Fund (MMF) assets and liabilities were transferred to the Malawi
Rural Finance Company (MRFC). All major legal covenants had been fulfilled by project closure.
10.    Bank and borrower's performance. IDA performed satisfactorily throughout the project cycle.
In all, 15 supervision missions visited the projects and at each stage task plans were drawn up to
facilitate timely action on pending items. IDA continuously expressed its serious concern regarding the
loan recovery performance and, at its insistence, the borrower had prepared an action plan for the
recovery of the defaults. However, this plan could not be effectively implemented due to political
interference. The borrower's performance was initially constructive, yet SACA's work was overtaken by
the extraneous (political) influences. The borrower generally complied with the major covenants of the
DCA, a major exception being that related to loan recovery discipline.
I1.    Overall project outcome. SACA, the agency specifically set up for credit delivery, could not
become financially viable. Similarly, the MMF, which was set up to implement the pilot component of
savings and credit, was also not cost-effective. For these reasons, the project sustainability has been rated
unlikely and, therefore, the project's outcome is assessed as unsatisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.    While the project partiy achieved its objectives of consolidating credit operations into a national
system and increasing the number of smallholder farmers accessing institutional credit, SACA's
operations proved to be unsustainable as a result of internal organizational weaknesses and external
factors. The lessons from SACA's experience were built into the design of a follow-on IDA-financed
Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP). Under the latter project, an autonomous Malawi Rural Finance
Company (MRFC) was created, applying sound banking practices, developing a client-oriented
organizational structure, (re-)instilling credit discipline, and deflecting attempted external efforts to
influence client selection and loan supervision and recovery. Similarly, the MMF has been brought
under the umbrella of MRFC as an IFAD-financed special facility to provide financial services to the
rural poor.
13.    Key lessons learned. These include: (i) to remain solvent, rural financial institutions need to be
able to operate free of political interventions, both in the selection/screening of clients and in the
supervision and recovery of loans; (ii) the prevailing policy environment has a crucial impact on the
viability of smallholder lending. SACA operated within a conflicting policy environment, featuring
periodic distribution of free inputs, shifting policies on input and commodity prices, and changing



policies on loan recoveries; (iii) the application of below market interest rates and subsidized inputs for
selected target groups is inevitably accompanied by the leakage of such credit and inputs to non-targeted
beneficiaries, (iv) beneficiary training in credit discipline is crucial; its virtual absence in this project
provided no counterweight against political intrusions promising 'grants' in response to votes; (v)
savings mobilization is a critical element in the development of sustainable rural financial services, (vi)
in circumstances where farmer (credit) clubs are formed through political patronage or similar types of
interventions, such clubs will remain vulnerable to external manipulation; (vii) input packages (and the
loans supporting them) need to be flexible to meet the needs of clients operating in different agro-
ecological areas; and (vii) initiatives to provide credit (and savings facilities) to the very poor through
cohesive groups can achieve beneficial impact with high repayment rates, yet financial sustainability is a
major challenge, given the initial high overhead and other costs associated with such activities.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1851-MAI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The primary aim of the project was to transform Malawi's smallholder credit system into
a better-managed, more efficient, low-cost and financially viable national credit delivery system
that would benefit a significantly large number of smallholders. The specific objectives of the
project were to:
(a)    consolidate the present area or project based programs into a national
smallholder credit system within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA);
(b)   increase flexibility in the allocation of credit resources;
(c)    strengthen the organization of the credit system and improve the efficiency of
policies and procedures for credit planning and administration;
(d)    diversify and increase agricultural production by helping to meet the unsatisfied
demand for seasonal and medium-term credit, and by increasing the number of
smallholders (especially women), benefiting from institutional credit;
(e)   initiate measures to increase the mobilization of rural savings; and
(f)   initiate a pilot operation to provide credit to and foster savings by the rural poor
to finance off-farm income-generating economic activities.
2.    The project components as foreseen at appraisal comprised:
(a)   lines of credit: the provision of funds for financing both on-farm requirements of
inputs (seasonal credit) and viable on-farm and off-farm investments (medium-
term credit);
(b)   institutional support: including the establishment of a Smallholder Agricultural
Credit Administration (SACA) as a Department within MOA, and the provision
of technical assistance and training; and
(c)    a pilot scheme for the rural poor (Malawi Mudzi Fund): focused on credit and
savings mobilization for income-generating activities.



-2-
The project cost was estimated at US$ 14.4 million, to be financed as follows: IDA credit US$
5.9 million, IFAD US$ 6.9 million, project beneficiaries US$ 0.2 million and GOM US$ 1.4
million.
3.     At the time that the SACP was conceived in the mid- 1980s, institutional credit for
smallholder farmers was provided under a range of separate area-based rural development
programs. These programs, financed by different international organizations, featured varied
administrative and accounting systems. Credit funds could be re-allocated between the different
areas only with considerable difficulty, resulting in a fragmented system in which credit
rationing occurred in some areas while surplus funds remained elsewhere. The provision of
credit was closely intertwined with agricultural extension, with no rural development project
staff or assets specifically dedicated to credit matters. Smallbolder credit was also strongly
influenced by the interventions and administrative procedures of the ruling political party.
Smallholder loan repayments were exceptionally high--exceeding 97% in most years--in large
part due to the (credible) threat of asset expropriation against defaulters.
4.     The mid-1980s was also a period of considerable concern about and adjustment within
Malawi's agriculturally-based economy. Both smallholder and overall agricultural growth had
stagnated in the early to mid-80s. National production of local and especially hybrid maize was
declining. This, together with the influx of refugees from Mozambique resulted in a large maize
deficit in 1986/87, necessitating large-scale imports. The uneven sequencing of marketing and
input and output price reforms had created marketing uncertainties, shortages of inputs, and
enormous financial and logistical burdens on the dominant marketing agency, the parastatal
ADMARC.
5.    The SACP was designed to amalgamate all the existing credit operations under a
Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA), formally established as a Department
within the MOA. The establishment of SACA provided clarification of responsibility for credit
services within a single Department, instituted continuity of management, and provided the
scope for developing standardized administrative and accounting procedures and applying credit
policies on a national basis. A broad spectrum of farm families were expected to benefit from
increased production resulting from the use of improved farm technologies applied with the use
of credit and extension. It was foreseen that the SACP would help to accelerate food production
and contribute also to a more diversified pattern of production.
6.     The project was consistent with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and in
line with the development priorities of the borrower. To minimize possible risks, as identified at
appraisal, technical assistance and training were envisaged to strengthen the project
implementation capability of the borrower. Parailel IDA-financed projects were expected to
address other possible risks related to crop pricing, input subsidy and marketing issues, and to
provide assistance to strengthen research and extension activities.



-3-
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Summary
7.    The project partly achieved its development objective of consolidating credit operations
into a national system, of increasing the flexibility of credit resource allocations, and of
increasing the number of smallholder farmers accessing institutional credit. Progress was made
in standardizing credit arrangements, strengthening the skills of SACA management and staff,
delinking credit from extension, and broadening the range of smaliholder farm and off-farm
activities financed through credit. The credit disbursed by SACA contributed to the increased
adoption of hybrid maize technology and to the initial take-off of smallholder (and small estate)
burley tobacco production. It thus contributed to increased incomes and, at least in the case of
the burley tobacco producers, an improved capacity to self-finance crop production.
8.    Nevertheless, the SACA operation itself proved to be unsustainable, with a sharp drop in
loan recovery rates and with a virtual collapse of the system by 1993. SACA's problems
stemmed from a combination of internal weaknesses and adverse external factors, with the latter
being most critical to the breakdown of operations. SACA's own weaknesses involved or
stemmed from the lack of banking experience amongst its management and staff, its weak
management information and financial control systems, its inability to mobilize savings as a
source of funds, and its limited influence over national credit policies. Magnifying the impact of
these weaknesses were several 'external' factors, including repeated shifts in government credit
policies, a major drought (in 1991/92), and the inclusion of credit (and credit repayment) as a
component in the campaigns of competing political parties (in 1992/93).
9.    Lessons from SACA's experience were built into the design of a follow-on Rural
Financial Services Project. The RFSP has involved the formation of an autonomous (though
initially 100% government-owned) rural financial services company, upon the assets and
liabilities of SACA. While primarily serving a smallholder and small estate clientele, this
company has sought to apply commercial lending policies and proper financial management
practices, mobilize rural savings, and re-establish strict credit repayment discipline. Two
relatively successful years of lending operations have now occurred, with the follow-on project
making an important contribution to the acceleration of smallholder burley tobacco production.
Hence, while the institutional arrangements surrounding SACA's operations were unsustainable,
adjustments made toward the end of the SACP, and refined in subsequent years, have resulted in
a rural financial system which has good prospects for continued financial viability and growth.
Credit Delivery and Savings Mobilization
10.   General. The objective of increasing credit support to smallholders was substantially
achieved, yet due to declining loan repayment rates this credit expansion could not be sustained.
The level of achievement of the other related objectives of the project-- including loan
diversification (particularly for investment purposes), improved access to loans by women
beneficiaries and mobilization of rural savings-- was much less significant. The initiation of a
pilot operation providing credit and fostering savings amongst a rural poor target group had
positive impacts on its beneficiaries and provided some useful lessons, although its
implementation of a relatively small loan portfolio was not cost-effective. The project had a
negligible impact on savings mobilization.



-4-
11.   Seasonal credit. Under the project, funds were made available to provide seasonal credit
to smallholder farmers to assist in their purchase of seeds, fertilizer, and other inputs. In the year
prior to the start-up of SACA (1987/88) some 9,072 clubs and 242,500 beneficiaries were
provided credit under the various rural development programs. During the course of the SACP,
credit coverage increased to 15,650 clubs and 392,000 farmers in the peak 1992/93 lending
season, this expansion being in line with SAR estimates. Due to poor loan recovery (and a lack
of additional funds), only 4,155 clubs (and 78,405 farmers) received loans in 1993/94, the last
year of SACA operations.
12.    The exact size of SACA's seasonal loan portfolio cannot be determined since many
medium-term loans were recorded as seasonal loans. Nevertheless, the medium term loan
portfolio was relatively small, generally 5% or less of the total loan portfolio. SACA's total loan
portfolio expanded from MK 43.5 million in its first year (1987/88) to a reach a peak of MK
144.7 million in 1992/93. Expressed in U.S.$ equivalents, the volume of loans disbursed nearly
doubled from $17 million in 1987/88 to more than $33 million in 1991/92 and 1992/93.2 With
poor loan recoveries in the latter two years, SACA disbursed only $6.1 million in loans in
1993/94, a figure some 40% below the pre-SACA level of smallholder credit. The growth in
lending in real terms was significantly lower than that apparent from the nominal figures. After
1989/90, most of the increase in lending can be attributed to rising costs of inputs and
progressively higher interest rates (the annual interest was credited to the loan accounts as up-
front charges). While the average annual growth in credit disbursed was some 41% in nominal
terms between 1987/88 and 1992/93, the annual growth in the quantity of fertilizer financed
through these loans increased by less than 11% during this period with virtually no expansion
recorded after the 1989/90 season (Appendix C- I, Table 3).3
13.   As in the pre-SACA credit programs, the bulk of SACA seasonal loans--estimated at
75%-- was to finance purchases of fertilizer and seeds for (hybrid) maize production. The
adoption of hybrid maize became more attractive in the early 1990s due to the release of hard
endosperm varieties with favorable processing and storage properties. SACA also financed input
purchases for smallholder rice, cotton, dark-fire tobacco, and, after 1991, burley tobacco
production. The average size of beneficiary sub-loans ( borrowed through farmers' clubs) nearly
doubled in MK and US$ terms between 1988/89 and 1991/92. However, due to a shortage of
funds, the input packages (and loan sizes) were reduced thereafter, indicating that loan package
design was not especially demand-driven or need-based. (Appendix C- 1, Table 1) In this same
regard, SACA came under criticism that the standard input packages provided were not flexible
enough to cater to different agro-climatic conditions and local cultivation practices.
14.    While the overall credit targets were reached, much of the benefit of institutional credit
continued, as in the pre-SACA days, to be concentrated in Kasungu and Lilongwe ADDs. While
these two ADDs together account for about one-third of smallholder households nation-wide, yet
their combined share of SACA credit disbursed was some 60-65%. All other areas were
proportionately underserved, with particularly low levels of SACA lending in Salima, Karonga,
and Ngabu ADDs. (Appendix C-I, Table 2). The coverage of women beneficiaries increased
2 Between 1991 and 1994, the Kwacha was devalued from MK 2.8 = US$1 to MK 7.9 = US$1.
3Over the 1989/90 and 1992/93 period, the quantity of maize seed purchases financed with SACA loans
increased by an average of 17% per year.



-5-
from 74,808 in 1988/89 to 112,300 in 1992/93, with women generally remaining about 29% of
the total beneficiaries throughout the project period (Appendix C-i, Table 1).
15.   A significant number of unintentional beneficiaries from the project were smallholder
farmers who, in the late 1980s and early 1990s, formally registered their land as estates, thereby
gaining access to a market quota for burley tobacco and direct access to the tobacco auctions.
These farmers, referred to as "graduated smallholders", tended to have considerably larger
communal landholdings than most smallholders, typically in the range of 5 to 15 hectares. An
estate survey conducted in 1990 found that one-third of those with less than 15 hectares procured
their fertilizer through farmers' clubs, thereby benefiting from the subsidies available to
smallholders for fertilizer.4 Anecdotal stories abound regarding the sale and resale (to estates) of
fertilizer originally provided under credit to smallholder farmers.
16.   The loan recovery performance of SACA declined throughout the project. While in the
pre-SACA days, loan recoveries were typically 95% or more, SACA achieved a recovery rate of
80% in 1988/89, increasing to 85% for the next two seasons. Loan recoveries then dropped
sharply to 25% in 1991/92, and 20% and 15% respectively in the next two seasons. Several
factors contributed to these results. First, in 1988 the GOM relaxed the 100% repayment
requirement for eligibility for new loans.5 This threshold was lowered to 80%, and farmers
proceeded to repay only 80% of their loan balance to obtain a subsequent loan. Second, a
drought in 1991/92 adversely affected production in many parts of the country. The GOM issued
a blanket moratorium on loan repayments, rescheduling all unpaid loans over three years. It also
undertook a drought recovery program involving the free distribution of seed and fertilizer with
insufficient distinction being made between this and credit-based input distribution. Third, in that
same year the GOM relaxed the policy regarding joint liability of club members for outstanding
debts, thus allowing paid-up individuals or partial clubs to form other clubs for borrowing
purposes. Fourth, in 1992 and 1993, smallholder credit became enmeshed in political referendum
and election campaigns with rival parties promising or implying that loans would be converted to
grants.
17.   With the quick disbursement of seasonal credit, SACA exhausted the IDA credit
allocation of SDR 3.0 million for this Category by the 1991/92 season. At the request of the
GOM, the DCA was amended reallocating to seasonal credit a further SDR 0.95 million derived
from Category 2 (SDR 0.6 million), Category 4 (SDR 0.1 million) and Category 7 (SDR 0.25
million). These extra funds were also fully utilized. As the poor loan recovery for 1991/92 left
SACA with insufficient funds for subsequent lending, funds were reallocated from several other
IDA-supported and other donor-supported projects, as part of drought recovery, to SACA. This
money was disbursed for the 1992/93 season, with very poor loan recovery.
18.   Medium-term credit. With a view to improving the production and productivity of
smallholder farners, the project contained a specific component for providing medium-term
credit to financially and economically viable on-farm and off-farm investments. Reliable data on
SACA's medium-term loan portfolio are not available as many such loans were recorded within
the seasonal loan portfolio. The main investments financed by SACA were ox-carts, work oxen,
44 "Beyond Dualism: The Changing Face of the Leasehold Estate Subsector in Malawi", by R. Mkandawire,
S. Jaffee, and S. Bertoli. Institute for Development Anthropology, Binghamton, N.Y.
5 This was a GOM directive overruling the recommendations of SACA management.



-6-
and cotton sprayers, although after 1992 several tobacco bale presses were also financed.
Recovery rates on medium-term loans were generally poor (i.e. estimated at 43% in late 1991),
although poor record-keeping prevents a definitive analysis of the true performance. The
placement of a marketing officer within SACA does not seem to have made a significant
contribution towards promoting the medium-term investment program. There was also no
effective impact of a consultancy study completed in January 1990 examining measures to
enhance the medium-term credit component.
19.   Pilot credit and savings scheme. The pilot scheme envisaged a program to provide
credit and savings services to the rural poor following certain aspects of the Bangladesh
Grameen Bank approach. The Malawi Mudzi Fund (MMF) was established in 1989 as a financial
trust for the implementation of the scheme. MMF operated as a separate legal entity from SACA
and commenced its functions in June 1990, a year behind schedule due to delays in positioning
its staff and lack of coordination between the Ministry of Finance and the Reserve Bank of
Malawi regarding the opening of a special account.
19.   The SAR lending targets of 1,000 beneficiaries and average loans of MK 200 per person
were easily accomplished. By the end of 1994, MMF had formed and trained over 500 groups
and issued loans totaling MK 683,000 to over 2,400 beneficiaries, with an average loan level of
MK 280 (Appendix C- 1, Tables 4 and 5). After the first two years of operations, virtually all the
subsequent beneficiaries were women. An ex-post evaluation of the MMF scheme indicated that
the program did not generally reach the intended target group--i.e. individuals/households were
very small landholdings and at the stage of starting up non-farm income-generating activities.
Most of the beneficiaries, though certainly not wealthy, did in fact have land and other assets and
were already engaged in the business activity which was supported by the MMF loan.6
Compared with the regular SACA loan program, both loan appraisal and monitoring were far
more rigorous under MMF. Although in its first year MMF loan recoveries were poor, at 52%,
this was greatly improved over time to exceed 90% in both 1992/93 and 1993/94 (Appendix C- 1,
Table 6). The MMF did not become enbroiled in the political manipulation of credit which
adversely affected SACA's regular lending in 1992 and 1993. The MMF pilot scheme illustrated
that rural households can be good credit risks even if they can not provide acceptable collateral.
Cohesive self-help groups and loans linked to savings provided an effective social contract for
the loans.
20.   The mobilization of group and individual savings envisaged under the scheme was only
partially successful. As at the end of December 1994, total savings had reached a level of MK
48,000, constituting a little over 8% of the loans issued to the members (Appendix C- 1, Table 7).
These savings, however, were largely for collateral purposes and there was little 'voluntary'
savings under the scheme. Beneficiaries preferred to deposit their savings outside of the scheme,
since the interest on group savings was not fully passed on to members, confidentiality was not
upheld, and members feared that their savings would be forfeited if loan repayments were not
complete.7
6 "Evaluation of Malawi Mudzi Fund", Center for Social Research, 1995.
7As a government Department, SACA was not permitted to mobilize savings. However, when a new club
was being formed, SACA encouraged it to open a savings account at either a commercial bank or the
Post Office bank.



-7-
21.    Organizationally, MMF faced difficulties related to its status as a public institution
managed mostly by Government officials. This gave wrong signals to the beneficiaries who
perceived loans as grants. In its established form, the MMF was hindered by the diseconomies of
scale of a small, autonomous institution with disproportionally high development costs and
operational overheads. Up to the 1992/93 fiscal year, for every MK letit, about MK 6 were spent.
The subsequent intensification of operations and transfer of certain credit administration
responsibilities to the groups themselves resulted in a reduction of operating costs by some
50%,8
Institutional Development Objectives
21.    As envisaged under the project, the credit section in the MOA was converted into the
SACA in 1988, with an independent departmental status to provide credit support to smallholder
farmers and to manage smallholder credit funds under various projects pooled into the
Consolidated Smallholder Credit Fund (CSCF). Day-to-day management of SACA was carried
out by the Administrator, assisted (during part of the project) by a Financial Controller, and other
supporting staff. 9 While SACA management could provide recommendations, credit policies
(i.e. interest rates, loan sizes, loan eligibility, recovery strategies) were set by a National Credit
Committee, chaired by the Controller of Agricultural Services within MOA.
22.    Specific MOA staff were allocated to SACA, although their costs were not directly
attributed to SACA. By 1991, SACA staff numbered 433. Most of this staff operated at the ADD
level. Throughout much of the project, however, most of the actual interface with borrowers was
undertaken by extension Field Assistants (FAs) and Farm Home Assistants (FHAs) who are not
SACA staff but work in liaison with and under the guidance of Credit and Marketing Assistants
based at local offices. FAs and FHAs continued to play a central role in the formation and
supervision of clubs until 1993 when SACA staff became more centrally involved in this
function as part of an effort to delink credit and extension.'0
23.    The funds provided under the project to meet the costs of incremental staff of SACA
(particularly the Credit Administrator, Financial Controller, Supply and Marketing Officer and 2
accountants), technical assistance and training, vehicles, etc., were fully utilized. A total of
forty-eight person months of Technical Assistance were provided by the project to develop credit
policies and procedures, and to establish an accounting and information system and training
programs. SACA officials indicated that the technical advice rendered by the expatriate
8The socio-economic conditions of Malawi were found to differ significantly from those in Bangladesh for
which the Grameen model was developed. Specifically, Malawi was characterized by lower
concentrations of population, smaller markets, a smaller range of non-farm skills and products, and a
more limited level of entrepreneurial experience among the rural poor. These conditions contributed
to the initial difficulties of the MMF and forced it to restructure its operations, especially by
increasing the size of its groups/centers, decentralizing management, and delegating administrative
functions to Fund beneficiaries.
The services of the Financial Controller were not available to SACA continuously. The position remained
vacant for most of FY 1992.
10 A survey in 1992 found that Fas spent 40% of their time working on credit processing, supervision, and
recovery activities over the course of the year, with this proportion being 75% or more in several
months.



-8-
consultants lacked a full appreciation of the problems and practices of the smallholder sector. At
appraisal, the total TA requirement was estimated at 52 person-months; the financial savings
made under this category were used to carry out studies related to the promotion of medium-term
credit, the delinkage of extension and credit, and patterns of credit default in Kasungu ADD
(Part II, Table 7). Final reports were considered satisfactory by both SACA and IDA and
provided useful recommendations for future loan policy and recovery.
24.   During the course of the project, SACA made a major investment in staff training.
Management and supervisory level staff participated in some nine overseas short-term courses
and four study tours. Given the fact that SACA operated as a GOM department with all policy
and operational procedures determined externally (by the National Credit Committee), it is not
clear whether the international training brought practical results during the course of SACP.I In
contrast, SACA's internal training program for middle and junior level staff appears to have been
both cost effective and accurately targeted at the real needs of the institution. Through
workshops/seminars some 400 field staff received training on various aspects of credit, club
formation and administration and computer application. Finally, under the project, some 9,000
club officials attended training courses on club management, accounting and record keeping.
Other guided credit courses, followed by courses for training of trainers, were given to 30 SACA
staff.
25.    While vehicles, office furniture and equipment were procured under the project, SACA
continued to make ample use of more general MOA facilities and equipment. For example,
while two saloon cars, three four-wheeled vehicles and one pick-up was procured under the
project, SACA in fact operated eleven vehicles. As foreseen at appraisal, a total of 1,000 bicycles
were to be provided to the field staff. With a view to improving staff mobility, SACA requested
that motorcycles be procured instead. A compromise was accepted to purchase 100 bicycles and
200 motorcycles. The first lot of 100 motorcycles was registered as GOM vehicles while the rest
were allowed to be registered in the names of individual staff concerned for operational
convenience and economy of maintenance. Furthermore, at the request of GOM, IDA approved
the purchase of the second lot of 100 motorcycles through the UNDP Inter Agency Procurement
Office instead of through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) to cut delays and make the vehicles
available for field work as soon as possible.
Economic and Financial Objectives
26.   Actual project cost was estimated to be US$ 14.2 million. Final overall disbursement
includes: IDA US$ 6.4 million (SDR 4.6 million), IFAD US$ 6.6 million (SDR 4.7 million) and
GOM US$ 1.2 million. The IDA credit was fully utilized and final disbursement took place on
July 28, 1994. The IFAD loan 212-MW, under which some SDR 0.2 million was still available,
remained open until MMF assets and liabilities were transferred to MRFC.
27.    The main economic benefit from the project stems from the increased income and
purchasing power made available to large numbers of smallholder farmers through access to
credit. This was an important factor in the rapid and steady expansion of plantings of hybrid
However, the SACA Administrator and several other senior staff have assumed managerial positions
within the Malawi Rural Finance Company, where they have been able to put to use their overseas
training and exposure to different rural financial systems.



-9-
maize during the period of the SACP. 12 The initial growth in hybrid maize plantings appears to
have come at the expense of groundnut production, yet in the early 1990s it replaced some
plantings of local and composite maize. The release of improved varieties, extension advice, and
relatively favorable producer prices also induced the increase adoption of hybrid maize
technology. Still, credit was an important factor, since some two-thirds of smallholder fertilizer
purchases were through credit. While maize production was uneven throughout this period, the
output obtained in 1992/93 was nearly 70% above that in the mid-1980s, with the provision of
smallholder credit being a contributing factor.
28.   For individual farmers, analysis in the early 1990s pointed to a doubling or even tripling
of gross margins when shifting from local to hybrid maize technologies.'3 The analysis
undertaken for this ICR, taking into account 1994/95 prices, shows a less dramatic yet still
significant improvement in gross margins and returns to labor as a result of this shift, aided by
access to credit. The analysis shows an estimated return to labor of MK 13.2/day for unfertilized
local maize compared with MK 18.0/day for hybrid maize (Appendix C-i, Table 2).
29.   The second and perhaps unintended important economic impact of the SACP was its
contribution to the expansion of smallholder and small estate burley tobacco production in the
late 1980s and early 1990s. Between 1990/91 and 1992/93, smallholder burley production
increased from only 1,600 to 17,900 tons, generating an aggregate net income over that period of
some MK 25 million. A similar level of expansion was recorded amongst small estates, many of
whom continued to be farmers' club members and borrowed money from SACA. This was
especially the case in Lilongwe and Kasungu ADDs. Nevertheless, the total number of tobacco-
producing smallholders and small estates who borrowed directly from SACA or who obtained
SACA-financed (GOM subsidized) fertilizer through various channels probably did not exceed
40,000 (i.e. about 10-15% of total SACA beneficiaries).
30.    The impact of beneficiary access to MMF financial services was not directly measured.
However, an evaluation study suggested that there occurred little incremental employment, yet
beneficiaries were generally in a better position to purchase additional food, pay school fees, or
increase consumption in some other way. The study found no evidence that loans provided under
the scheme had resulted in an significant change in the socio-economic status of participants.
31.   It is not possible to analyze the financial performance of SACA given the non-
segregation of SACA and associated credit activities and costs from MOA accounts and overall
activities. 14 The MOA absorbed a large part of the credit activity-related costs, leaving SACA to
post a sizable, yet essentially false recorded profit in most years. The only costs separately
recorded for SACA related to equipment/vehicle maintenance, selected staff salaries,
consultancy fees, training, and fuel, stationary and other consumables. One study which
attempted to estimate the full cost of SACA operations, estimated that SACA incurred a net loss
of MK 4.6 million in 1990/91, its last year of acceptable loan recoveries. Given the poor loan
2 Smallholder plantings of hybrid maize increased from some 59,000 ha. in 1987/88 to 326,000 ha. in
1992/93.
"Malawi: Agricultural Sector Memorandum", World Bank, 1995.
14 Given the overlap of extension and credit, it is also not possible to analyze standard measures of credit
staff efficiency.



-10-
repayments between 1991/92 and 1993/94 and the outstanding arrears in 1994 of over MK 260
million, it is clear that SACA operations were costly indeed for the GOM.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
32.   Credit and Institutional Policies: During the late 1980s and early 1990s the GOM
instituted a series of monetary policy and financial market reforms geared toward increasing
financial market competition and efficiency and increasing savings mobilization. For example, in
1988, interest rates were deregulated, credit ceilings discontinued, and preferential rates for
specific sectors (including agriculture) were abolished. In subsequent years, revisions were made
to the Reserve Bank of Malawi Act, the Banking Act, and the Capital Market Development Act,
paving the way for the entry of new financial intermediaries and an improved policy framework
placing emphasis on indirect rather than direct monetary instruments and mechanisms.
33.   Unfortunately, these reforms had little impact on rural finance and virtually no impact on
the operations of SACA which, as a Department of MOA, was a non-financial institution.
Policies pertaining to smallholder credit continued to be set by a National Credit Committee (and
sometimes amended or reversed by either the Permanent Secretary or the Minister of
Agriculture), with political and other criteria frequently being more important than financial and
credit operation sustainability concerns. The SACA Administrator was a member of the
Committee and SACA management could recommend certain policies, yet, in practice, credit-
related policies were driven by other concerns.
34.   This was reflected in the setting of interest rates. SACA was required to charge market
rates of interests on its loans, keeping in view the rates of inflation and the basic rates fixed by
the RBM, with some concession as regards the special position of its clientele. However, in
practice it was unable to adjust the interest rates in relation to inflation and prevailing
commercial bank rates. Thus, while the inflation rate was accelerating to 31.5% in 1988, SACA
was permitted to raise its interest rate only from 12% to 18% for the 1988/89 season. Similar
adjustment lags and gaps occurred in subsequent years. Hence, while inflation accelerated
sharply in 1994 to 60%, SACA was able to charge interest rates of only 30%. Such below
market interest rates contributed to the 'leakage' of inputs into the estate subsector which,
otherwise, borrowed from commercial banks at market rates. Such interest rates also fostered
other improprieties (i.e. staff and civil servants taking loans), contributing to the reduced
recoveries.
35.   This was also reflected in shifted policies with regard to beneficiary eligibility. For
example, for 19988/89 to 1990/9 1, the 100% recovery rule (for eligibility for subsequent loans)
was reduced to 80%, contrary to the covenant of the DCA, and the recommendations of SACA
management. In the following year, the joint liability requirement was also (temporarily) waived,
allowing individual club members of defaulted clubs to attain new loans. When Malawi
experienced a severe drought in 1991/92, all (new) loans were rescheduled, regardless of the
extent of crop failure in particular areas. Due to political interventions, SACA was prevented
from taking legal action against defaulters. Credit was further politicized in 1992/93 as rival
political parties implied or explicitly promised to convert loans into grants should they be
elected.



-11-
36.   The GOM could also not provide the proper environment for the healthy growth of the
farmers' clubs. This was partly due to the historical origins of many such clubs, being tied to the
political apparatus of the (former) ruling party and sometimes being subjected to rather
Draconian methods of loan recovery. As early as in 1991, a study of the repayment performance
of Kasungu ADD had highlighted the malpractices in club formation and leadership as reasons
for loan delinquency. This was also true of the other ADDs, as observed by SACA and endorsed
by the CSR study carried out in 1993. The CSR study revealed that the 100% recovery secured
with coercive means (i.e. expropriation of assets) had alienated the beneficiaries and seriously
undermined the "joint and several liability" principle. No efforts were made by GOM/SACA to
infuse group harmony and repayment ethics in the farmers' clubs.
37.   Drought Relief and Recovery: A serious drought in 1991/92 drought adversely affected
large parts of Malawi. National maize production declined by some 60%. While SACA expected
that it would be able to recovery 50% of the disbursed loans, recoveries were halted at some 25%
when a GOM decision was made to offer a blanket moratorium on loan recoveries and the
rescheduling of all loans over a three year period. In the next year, running parallel with this
'drought recovery' loan rescheduling, there occurred a large-scale distribution of free seed and
fertilizer packs for 'drought recovery'. In this environment many farmers had difficulty
discerning the difference between loan and grant programs, involving some of the same
extension staff at the local level. This, undoubtedly, was a contributing factor to the poor loan
recoveries in 1992/93.
38.   Marketing and Pricing Policies: The SACP was implemented during a period of
volatility in government policies with regard to the pricing and marketing of agricultural inputs
and commodities. Wide swings occurred in the nominal and relative prices of different
commodities. Produce markets were partially liberalized, yet the GOM intermittently imposed
embargoes on private trading of certain crops. While fertilizer market reforms were envisioned
for the late 1980s, these were delayed until 1993/94, with ADMARC continuing to play a
dominant role in this market throughout the SACP period. Financial constraints faced by
ADMARC inhibited both the timely availability of fertilizer and the functioning of maize and
other commodity markets. During this period there also occurred a partial relaxation of controls
on smallholder burley tobacco production, with the quota allocated to smallholders increasing
from 1990/91 onward.
39.   SACA Management and Management Information: SACA was not guided adequately by
its management and staff, who lacked the necessary professional expertise to formulate
appropriate credit and operational policies, lacked the authority to make decisions regarding the
hiring, firing, transfer, and remuneration of staff, and lacked an effective MIS for tracking loans
and expenditures. The specific duties and responsibilities and performance goals of field staff
were not clearly indicated. With an expansion of lending, staff were not properly redeployed in
order to balance out workload. Hence, by 1992/93, the average number of clubs handled by staff
in Kasungu were three times that in Karonga. SACA never did develop an effective system to
properly supervise the end use of its credits and to monitor loan recoveries. It also accorded
inadequate attention to financial management and adopted questionable policies with regard to
provisions for bad debts.



-12-
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
40.   SACA was conceived to emerge as a financially viable system to provide credit to
smallholder farmers. It would initially obtain a 100% subsidization of its staff costs from GOM
and cost-free funds for on-lending. In the initial years it was able to meet its operating costs from
its income but with the steep increase in loan defaults, its operations ended up in huge losses. At
appraisal, it was envisaged that an amount equivalent to 2% of the resources transferred by the
GOM to the Smallholder Credit Fund per year out of the proceeds of the IDA credit and IFAD
loan would be paid by SACA to MOF as a measure towards gradually phasing out GOM support
to SACA's administrative costs. No such payment was effected during the entire project period.
41.   With heavy accumulated losses, coupled with the lack of professional expertise of SACA
management, organizational weaknesses and external environmental constraints, SACA was not
viable and hence the project was not sustainable. The accumulated loan defaults as of the end of
September 1994 stood at MK 263 million (Appendix C- 1, Table 9). In regards to the MMF, its
organizational arrangements have suffered from high operating costs with prohibitive overheads
and limited outreach. Furthermore, MMF lacked the required infrastructure and institutional
capacity to expand its operations to achieve the required economies of scale to operate in a cost-
effective manner. Therefore, MMF was not able to achieve financial viability with its operating
structure and mandate.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
42.   The project was identified during the negotiations for the IDA-financed Extension and
Planning Support Project (Cr. 1626-MAI), as part of continuing IDA/IFAD assistance to the
National Rural Development Programme (NRDP). A joint IDA/IFAD mission visited Malawi in
June 1986 and again in September/October 1986 and finalized the project preparation in line
with the GOM's priority for supporting smallholder farmers. The preparatory missions made an
extensive study of various aspects of smallholder credit before finalizing the project. The
technical and training components of the project were well designed to impart the requisite
strength to SACA to transform itself into a financially viable organization. The project was
appraised by a joint IDAJIFAD mission in March 1987 and the credit agreement was signed in
December 1987. An important underlying assumption in the project was that SACA would be
able to operate autonomously. In practice, this did not occur.
43.   A total of 15 supervision missions visited the project, the number being relatively large
for a project of this size. Of these, two missions covered all on-going projects in the agricultural
sector while three missions also covered the RFSP. At each stage, task plans were drawn up by
the missions to facilitate timely action on the pending items. In problem areas spotted (i.e.
organizational arrangements for ADDs, decline in loan recovery and the absence of medium-
term lending, etc.), IDA organized special studies or consultancies for sorting out the problems.
With the increase in SACA loan disbursements, IDA readily agreed to reallocate funds to
seasonal credit (Category 1) from funds relative to Categories 2, 4 and 7. A mid-term review was
not undertaken, ostensibly because of the preparation work being undertaken for a follow-up
project.
44.   One major problem encountered by the project was slippage in loan recovery
performance. IDA continuously expressed its serious concern regarding this matter and at its
insistence, the borrower drew up an action plan for the recovery of the defaults. However, the



-13-
action plan could not be effectively implemented by the GOM/SACA due to extraneous/political
interference. GOM found the input of the supervision missions useful, both technically and
administratively, and the skill mix of the missions was fairly well-balanced, although the
inclusion of a banking specialist in one or more missions could have contributed to
improvements in SACA's MIS and internal procedures and systems for tracking and monitoring
loans.
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
45.   The borrower's performance in the project preparation was constructive and considered
satisfactory. In the implementation also, it fulfilled its organizational commitments by creating
SACA and setting up MMF. GOM made available the counterpart funds and its own contribution
on a prompt basis. It generally complied with the major covenants of DCA, a very important
exception being non-compliance with the recovery discipline provision (Part II, Table 10).
SACA's lending programs were supported by national-level plans for credit, input supply and
agricultural production. However, similar interest was not evidenced by GOM in the matter of
loan recovery.
46.   Although IDA brought to the notice of GOM/SACA the need to improve the MIS and
accounting system, no special steps were taken by GOM to address this or to update the audit of
SACA on time. SACA accounts lacked transparency and did not present a true picture in as
much as provisions were not adequately made for its bad/doubtful debts and income was inflated
with unrealized interest earnings even on its overdue loans. The final position of SACA at the
end of September 1994 was one of heavy losses.
47.   SACAIGOM focused almost entirely on the short-term credit component, devoting little
attention to the other project objectives such as diversification of the loan portfolio, promoting
medium-term agricultural investments, encouraging women's participation, and mobilizing rural
savings.
48.   During the last two IDA supervision missions, GOM was advised to initiate preparation
of its ICR. However, this exercise was not commenced by GOM until much later. During the
ICR mission's visit to Malawi, it was assured that the borrower's ICR would be finalized and
submitted to the World Bank before end March 1995; however, it was not received until
November, 1995, and, in many ways, was incomplete. The final project audit was not available
until April 1996. Given the unavailability of many relevant records, the audit was incomplete.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
49.   Although the objective of credit support to smallholders was substantially achieved (and
this credit contributed to increased/accelerated smallholder adoption of hybrid maize technology
and entry into burley tobacco production), SACA's lending operations were not sustainable and
the organization was not financially viable. Similarly, the MMF that was established to
implement the pilot component of savings and credit was not cost-effective. For these reasons,
the project sustainability has been rated as unlikely, and therefore the project's outcome is
assessed as unsatisfactory. However, as noted below, the lessons learned by the GOM and by
IDA in the course of SACP implementation have contributed to the design of new arrangements
for the delivery of financial services in rural areas. These new arrangements, under the auspices



-14-
of the Malawi Rural Finance Company, show prospects for continued financial viability and the
growth and diversification of financial services.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
50.   Under the IDA-financed Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP), the assets (and most
of the staff) of SACA were taken over by the Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) on
October 1, 1994.  The objective of the RFSP is to improve the access to financial services in
rural areas on a sustainable basis, with MRFC to be eventually converted into a full-fledged rural
bank. Similarly, the MMF was merged with MRFC on August 1, 1995 to become a special
financial facility to the rural poor on a national scale, under the IFAD-funded Mudzi Financial
Services Project (MFSP). MRFC was formed at a time when the credibility of SACA was very
poor with heavy loan defaults and accumulated losses.
51.   To re-establish credit repayment discipline, MRFC and the GOM have (a) reaffirmed the
commitment to 100% recovery, (b) have restricted defaulters from new financing, (c) have re-
introduced the practice ofjoint and several liability among club members, and (d) have required
borrowers to deposit 10-20% of their loan in a collateral savings account. MRFC, through its
management and a GOM-appointed Board of Directors, is to operate autonomously in the setting
and implementation of its credit policies. The company is expected to charge (near) commercial
rates of interest on loans and, within a short period, to earn a profit.
52.   In its first year of operations, 1994/95, MRFC was able to disburse 6,136 loans totalling
MK 34.2 million. Despite the adverse impact of drought on agriculture in parts of the country,
the MRFC achieved a loan repayment rate exceeding 93%. In its second season, loan
disbursement exceeded MK 240 million, reaching some 125,000 beneficiaries. This lending has
been instrumental in the further expansion of smallholder burley tobacco production and
adoption of hybrid maize technology.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
53.   The main lessons learned from the project were as follows:
*  to remain solvent, rural financial institutions need to be able to operate free of political
interventions, both in the selection/screening of clients, in the determination of interest rates,
and in the supervision and recovery of loans;
*  the prevailing policy environment has a crucial impact on the viability of smallholder
lending. SACA operated within a conflicting policy environment, featuring periodic
15 For MRFC to become fully operational, certain actions were taken and a summarised Action Plan for the
April-October, 1994 period is provided in Appendix C- I (Table 12). The MRFC has since prepared a multi-
year Action Plan which it is now implementing.



-15-
distribution of free inputs, shifting policies on input and commodity prices, and changing
policies on loan recoveries;
*  the application of below market interest rates on loans (and/or subsidized inputs) for a target
clientele is inevitably accompanied by a rationing of such credit and the 'leakage' of this
credit and subsidized inputs to non-targeted beneficiaries;
*  beneficiary training in credit discipline is crucial; its virtual absence in this project provided
no counterweight against political intrusions promising 'grants' in response to votes. In
circumstances where farmer (credit) clubs are formed through political patronage or similar
types of interventions, such clubs will remain vulnerable to external manipulation;
*  savings mobilization is a critical dimension in the development of sustainable rural financial
services. This element was largely ignored within the SACP, but has been incorporated
within the follow-on project;
*  input packages (and the loans supporting them) need to be flexible to meet actual
beneficiaries' needs according to different agro-climatic conditions and cultivation practices;
e  initiatives to provide credit (and savings facilities) to the very poor through cohesive groups
can achieve beneficial impact with high repayment rates, yet financial sustainability is a
major challenge given the initial high overhead and other costs associated with such
activities.



- 16 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLES
1.  Summary of Assessments
2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits
3.  Project Timetable
4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation
7.  Studies Included in Project
8A. Project Costs
8B. Project Financing
9.  Economic Costs and Benefits
10. Status of Legal Covenants
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
13. Bank Resources: Missions



- 17 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial     Negligible  Not Aplicable
Macro policies                                    E L]                        L [
Sector policies                         i          Li           El               i
Financial objectives                 Li           Ei            LE            Li
Institutional development            L             Li           Li            Ei
Physical objectives                  Li           EL           Ei             L
Poverty reduction                    Li           El            Li            Li
Gender issues                        L            E]            Li]           Li
Other social objectives              Li           IZ           EII              ]
Environmental objectives             EL           Li           EI]            Fi
Public sector management             Li           LI]           Li            L1
Private sector development           LI]           Li          LI]            Fi
Other (specify)                      Li            Li           Li            Li
B. Project sustainability             Likel        Unlikely    Uncertain
(/)           (/)         (')
C. Bank performan                   satisfactory   Satisfactor    Deficient
(/)           (1)         (/)
Identification                    L               i          Li
Preparation assistance             Li           Li           Li
Appraisal                         EL            Li           L
Supervision                       L            EL            L



- 18 -
Highly
D. Borrower performance                satisfactorv    Satisfactor    Deficien
(V)           (V)          (V)
Preparation                       []            [ IF
Implementation                    Em1           El i
Covenant compliance                 CEI g                      E
Operation (if applicable)          LI           EI 
ighly                                         HighlY
E. Assessment of outcome           satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(V)                           (1)               )
ni  oi    i   zLi



- 19 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                 Purpose           Year of approval          Status
1. National Rural Development      To assist GOM to           November 1978   Closed 30 June 1985 PCR
Programme - NRDP Phase I        implement the first 5-year                  dated June 1987
phase of the programme.
Completion of Lilongwe
Land Development
Programme (LLDP).
2. National Rural Development       Similar components to      October 1981    Closed September 1988
Programme - NRDP Phase III      NRDP IV. Main                               PCR dated May 1990
(Cr.1183-MAI)                   objectives to increase
agricultural production,
income and welfare of the
smallholder sector.
3. National Rural Development       The project included        April 1983     Closed April 1991
Programme - NRDP Phase IV       components to strengthen                    PCR dated April 1991
(Cr. 1343-MAI)                  and support extension
services, training and
adoptive research and
made provision for
improved credit and
marketing facilities.
4. Smallholder Fertilizer           Assist the smallholder       April 1983    Closed 31 March 1988
(Cr. 1352-MAI)                  sector in the procurement
of inputs, mainly fertilizer.
5. Fisheries Development Project    To support GOM's efforts    February 1992   Under implementation
(Cr.2225-MAI)                   to increase fish
production, marketing and
distribution. Line of credit
also included.
6. Agricultural Services Project    Designed to help formulate   June 1993     Under implementation
(Cr.2514-MAI)                   and implement institution
and management reforms
in research, extension and
input supply system.
7. Rural Financial Services Project    To improve the access to  June 1993     Under implementation
(Cr.2513-MAI)                   financial services for the
rural sector.



- 20 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                               Date planned           Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification1'                                     July 1985              July 1985
Preparation2'                                        June 1986              June 1986
Final preparation                                    Sept./Oct. 1986        Sept./Oct. 1986
Appraisal"                                           March 1987             March 1987
Credit negotiations                                  May 1987                14-17 September 1987
Board presentation                                   June 1987               17 November 1987
Credit agreement (signing)                                                  22 December 1987
Credit effectiveness                                 15 December 1987       8 September 1988
Mid-term review                                      31 December 1990       Not carried out.
Project completion                                                          30 September 1994
Loan closing                                         30 June 1995           31 December 1994
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
IDA Fiscal Year      1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95
................................................. (US$'000) ..............................(US$
Appraisal estimate     200        700       1,600      2,700      3,700      4,600       5,900
Actual                 305        644       2,654      5,307      5,779      6,053       6,378
Actual as % of         153         92         166        197       156         132         108
disbursement
1/           The project was identified during the negotiations (held in Lilongwe) for the IDA-financed Extension
and Planning Support Project (Cr. 1626-MAI).
2/           Preparation carried out by GOM with IDA and IFAD assistance.
3/           With IFAD participation



- 21 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's
Report                                                 Estimated                  Actual
A. Institutional Building (SACA)
Technical Assistance:
- Credit/training adviser (p/m)- System analyst             30                        36
(p/m)                                                       12                        12
- Monitoring/studies (p/m)                                  10
Overseas Training:
- Short courses (no.)                                       20                          91/
- Seminars and study tours (no.)                            16                          4"
Local Training:
- HQ staff (no.)                                            70                        92
- Field staff (no.)                                        400                       400
- Club officials (no.)                                     n.a.                     9,000
Office Equipet                                                                                     l
- Calculators (no.)                                        400                       400
- Safe boxes (no.)                                          10                        10
- Computers/printers (no.)                                 n.a.                        6
Vehicles:
- 4x4 (no.)                                                  4                         6
- Bicycles (no.)                                          1,000                      100
- Motorbicycles (no.)                                                                200
B. Pilot Credit Operation
Technical Assistance (p/m)                                   9                                     I
Vehicles:
- 4x4 (no.)                                                  2                         1
- Bicycles (no.)                                             6                         8
- Motorbicycles (no.)                                       20                         2
Overseas Training:
- Study tours (no.)                                          7                       n.a.
- Local training (groups)                                  n.a.                      500
- Office equipment (set)                                 various                   various
C. Credit Operations
Short-term credit disbursement (US$ million)               8.9                       11.9
Medium-term credit disbursement (US$ million)              2.1
7 on credit administration (4 in USA of 6 weeks and 3 in Swaziland of 4 weeks), and 2 on rural
finance in Thailand.
2/           One in Bangladesh (Grameen Bank), one in Kenya (Agricultural Finance Corporation), one in Zambia
(LIMA Bank) and one in Zimbabwe (Agricultural Finance Corporation of Zimbabwe).



- 22 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable to this Project
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study          at appraisal/redefined              Status          Impact of study
1. Medium-term credit   To identify investment           Completed         No direct impact.
opportunities to be pursued     January 1990
by smallholders.
2. Defaults under      Ad hoc study to improve the       Completed         No direct impact.
medium-term loans    effectiveness of medium-term    January 1990
loans.
3. Extension/credit    Ad hoc study to separate          Completed         Recommendations
delinkage           extension activities from            1993           implemented in September
credit operations.                                 1994.
4. Defaulter survey in    To examnme the reasons for     Completed         Valuable
Kasungu ADD         the declining trend in loan          1990           recommendations for
recovery.                                          future loan policy and
recovery.



- 23 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item               Local   Foreign   Total       Local     Foreign   Total"
costs    costs               costs       costs
1.  Incremental seasonal credit   2,230  6,692    8,922     2,979       8,940    11,919
2.  Medium-term credit          421      1,681    2,102        -          -         -
3.  Vehicles and equipment       20       456      476                    547      547
4.  Technical assistance         56       509      565        -           442      442
5.  Training                    605       463    1,068        504         390      894
6.  Operating costs and         247        76      323        247         65       213
maintenance
7.  Pilot credit and saving     464       483      947         19         20        39
scheme
TOTAL                        4,043    10,360   14,403      3,749      10,404    14,153
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source           Local   Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign      Total
costs    costs               costs      costs
IDA                       1,432    4,493    5,925       1,573      4,805      6,378
IFAD                      1,896    4,976    6,872      1,653       4,922      6,575
Domestic - GOM             681       715    1,396        523        677        1,200f'
- Project beneficiary  43      167      210        -          -           -
TOTAL                    4,052    10,351   14,403     3,749      10,404      14,153
"/         Including GOM contribution estimated at US$ 1.2 million (see Table 8B).
2/         Mission estimate: official figure not available.



- 24 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No attempt has been made to compute the overall financial and economic rates of return for the
project.
The main economic benefit from the project stems from the increased income and purchasing
power made available to large numbers of smallholder farmers through access to credit. This was an
important factor in the rapid and steady expansion of plantings of hybrid maize during the period of the
SACP. Smallholder plantings of hybrid maize increased from some 59,000 ha. in 1987/88 to 326,000 ha.
in 1992/93. While the initial growth in hybrid maize plantings came primarily at the expense of
groundnut production, in the early 1990s there was an apparent shift from local to hybrid maize amongst
farmers accessing credit. Some two-thirds of smallholder fertilizer purchases were through credit. While
maize production was uneven throughout this period, the output obtained in 1992/93 was nearly 70%
above that in the mid-i 980s, with the provision of smallholder credit being a contributing factor.
For individual farmers, analysis in the early 1990s pointed to a doubling or even tripling of gross
margins when shifting from local to hybrid maize technologies. The analysis undertaken for this ICR,
taking into account 1994/95 prices, shows a less dramatic yet still significant improvement in gross
margins and returns to labor as a result of this shift, aided by access to credit. The analysis shows an
estimated return to labor of MK 13.2/day for unfertilized local maize compared with MK 18.0/day for
hybrid maize (Appendix C- I, Table 2).
The second and perhaps unintended important economic impact of the SACP was its
contribution to the expansion of smallholder and small estate burley tobacco production in the late 1980s
and early 1990s. Between 1990/91 and 1992/93, smallholder burley production increased from only
1,600 to 17,900 tons, generating an aggregate net income over that period of some MK 25 million. A
similar level of expansion was recorded amongst small estates, many of whom continued to be farmers'
club members and borrowed money from SACA. This was especially the case in Lilongwe and Kasungu
ADDs. Nevertheless, the total number of tobacco-producing smallholders and small estates who
borrowed directly from SACA or who obtained SACA-financed (GOM subsidized) fertilizer through
various channels probably did not exceed 40,000 (i.e. about 10- 15% of total SACA beneficiaries).
The impact of beneficiary access to MMF financial services was not directly measured.
However, an evaluation study suggested that there occurred little incremental employment, yet
beneficiaries were generally in a better position to purchase additional food, pay school fees, or increase
consumption in some other way. The study found no evidence that loans provided under the scheme had
resulted in an significant change in the socio-economic status of participants.



- 25 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
[MALAWI]
[Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project]
Page 1
Covenant   Present   Description of covenant           Comments
Agreement    Section         type       status
Credit       3.03             2,9          C     Periodically review and revise    Interest rates were revised upwards in
interest rate to ensure that rates are   1993 to 30% p.a. for seasonal and
in line with the overall interest rate   medium-term credit from 18% and
structure in the country.        15% respectively, applied during 1991
and 1992. Currently interest rates is
40% p.a.
4.01(b)         1,3,9       C       Audit of special account, MMF and  Completed in 1995.
SCF.
4.01(c)         1,9,3       C       Audit of statements of expenditure.   Completed in 1995.
Schedule 4,      5          C       SACA to have departmental status
para 2                              within MOA with responsibility for
managing at national level and
smallholder agricultural credit
system.
Schedule 4,      5          PC      SACA to employ qualified and     Intermittent employment of
para 3                              experienced Administrator,       accountants and financial controller.
Financial controller, Accountants,
Credit Officers, Supply and
Marketing Officer and Support
Staff.
Schedule 4,     2,3         C       Deposit funds in interest bearing
para 4                              account.
Schedule 4,      5          C       Appoint Savings Coordination
para 5                              Cormmittee.
Schedule 4,     10,5        C       Carry out study on Medium-term   Study complete in January 1990. No
para 6                              Credit.                          impact.
Schedule 4,      5          C       Plan for phasing out of Government  Government support ceased when
para 8(b)                          support of administration costs.  SACA's lending operations were taken
over by the Malawi Rural Finance
Company under the new Rural
Financial Services Project (Cr. 2513-
MAI) as of 1 October 1994.
Complied after delay.



- 26 -
Page 2
Covenant   Present   Description of covenant           Comments
Agreement    Section         type       status
Schedule 4,      5          NC      Seasonal credit and medium-term  Effectively the covenant was not
para 9                              credit to be made by SACA in        complied with since SACA issued
accordance with procedures and     fresh loans for 1989/90 and
terms and conditions specified in its    1990/91 with 80% recovery
credit manual.                     discipline. In 1991/92 loans were
extended across the board due to
drought in certain areas of Malawi
and fresh loans were issued to
defaulters.
Schedule 4,     9,10       CD       MOA to carry out mid-term review   Detailed review carried out during
para 12                             not later than 12 December 1991.   RFSP appraisal in 1992.
Schedule 4,      5         CD       Establish MMF not later than 12  Operation started in July 1990.
para 13                             December 1988.
Schedule 4,     5,9        CD       MMF to carry out mid-term review   Detailed review carried out during
para 17                             not later than 12 December 1990.   MFSP appraisal in 1993.
Covenant Class:
1. Accounts/audit
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3. Flow and utilization of project fund.
5. Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation



- 27 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                 Actual
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks         US$        Weeks         US$       Weeks        US$
Through appraisal          n.a.        n.a.          n.a.        n.a.       50.3        n.a.
Supervision               72.0.        n.a.         84.1         n.a.       63.9        n.a.
Completion"                n.a.        n.a.          n.a.        n.a.        11.0       n.a.
TOTAL                    ...          n.a.         ...         n.a.        125.2       n.a.
1/          Carried out by FAO/CP.



- 28 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                      Specialized    Implemen-  Develop-men
Stage of             Month/            of         Days in        staff skills     tation      objectives    Types of
project cycle           year           persons       field        represented"       status                  problems2'
dentification          uly 1985               n.a.         n.a.            n.a.             _            _             _
reparation            une 1986               n.a.          n.a.            n.a.            _            _
inal Preparation      Sept/Oct 1986          n.a.          n.a.            n.a.
Appraisal              March 1987               5            21        CS,CS,FA,E,A
Supervision            May/June 1988            1            18             Cs               1            2             M
Supervision            November 1988            1            8              CS               1            2             M
Supervision            January 1989            n.a.         n.a.            n.a.            n.a.         n.a.          n.a.
Supervision            September 1989           1            7               E               1            1             M
Supervision            February 1990            2            14             CS               2            2             M
upervision            August 1990             n.a.         n.a.            n.a.            n.a.         n.a.          n.a.
Supervision            November 1990            4            12          E,A,A,CS            2            2            M
Supervision            April 1991               4            11         E,CS,CS,A            2            2            M
Supervision            Oct/Nov3' 1991           4           27          FA,A,A,CS            2            2            NR
Supervision            June/July"1992           4           22          FA,A,E,E"            2            2            NR
Supervision            November" 1992           2           n.a.          FA,CS              2            2             F
Supervision            June/July3 1993          4            16         FA,CS,E,E4'          2            2             F
Supervision            March/April/"1994        3           20           FA,E,CS4'           2            2             F
Supervision            July311994               4           20          E,E,FA,CS           U             S            M
Supervision            October"1994             2            11             E,E            n.a.         n.a.           n.a.
ompletion5'          Jan/Feb3'1995            2            14             E,CS
A = Agronomist; E = Economist; FA  = Financial Analyst; CS = Credit Specialist.
2/              F = Financial; M  = Management.
31              In continuation with supervision of other IDA projects.
4/              Including IFAD staff.
5/              Carried out by FAO/CP.



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE






MALAWI: Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
A. Introduction
1.    An  FAO/WB  Cooperative  Programme  mission  comprising  Messrs. R. Suppa
(Economist/Mission Leader) and P.V.A. Rama Rao (Credit Specialist/Consultant), visited Malawi
from 26 January to 9 February 1995 for the preparation of the ICR of the above project. The
mission held meetings with the concerned officials of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MOALD),the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM), as
well as with the staff of Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC), Malawi Mudzi Fund (MMF)
and the Centre for Social Research (CSR). During the field trips to Lilongwe East RDP and
Zomba, the mission received useful feedback from project beneficiaries and field implementation
staff. The mission received valuable advice and guidance from staff of both the FAO and WB
Representations in Lilongwe. During its stay in Malawi, the mission had also the opportunity to
discuss its findings with Mr. D. Fullerton, WB Task Manager and with Mr. C. Dickerson, IFAD
Project Controller for SACP.
2.    The mission acknowledges the cooperation and courtesy extended to it by the GOM and its
agencies. The mission's preliminary findings, as indicated below, are subjected to review and
confirmation by the IDA and IFAD Management.
B. Background
3.    The project was appraised in February 1987, the Credit Agreement was signed on 22
December 1987 and became effective on 8 September 1988. The primary aim of the project was to
transform Malawi's smallholder credit system into a better-managed, more efficient, low-cost and
financially viable national credit system benefiting a large number of smallholders. To this end,
project components as foreseen at appraisal included:
(a)   Provision of funds for financing both on-farm requirements of inputs, and viable
on-farm and off-farm investments;
(b)   Institutional support including the establishment of a Smallholder agricultural
Credit Administration (SACA), Technical Assistance and Training; and
(c)   A pilot credit and savings scheme for rural poor on the lines of the IFAD-financed
Grameen Bank project in Bangladesh.
4.    The project cost was estimated at US$ 14.4 million, to be financed as follows: IDA credit
US$ 5.9 million, IFAD US$ 6.9 million, project beneficiaries US$ 0.2 million and GOM US$ 1.4
million. Actual project costs and disbursement are presented in Section D.
1



MALAWI: Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
C. Project Implementation
General
5.    Overall, project implementation can be considered satisfactory and, as indicated in Section
D, SACP Credit was closed six months in advance of the stipulated date given in the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA). SACA was established in 1988 replacing the earlier credit unit within
the Ministry of Agriculture. Both the Technical Assistance and Training programmes were
implemented in line with Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimates. No major problems were
experienced in procurement of vehicles and office equipment, and availability of funds to cover
incremental operating costs was timely and adequate. Finally, the Malawi Mudzi Fund (MMF),
which was set up to implement the Pilot Credit and Savings Scheme Component of the project,
was developed to adapt the Grameen Bank model in Malawi to provide banking facilities to the
poor in rural areas, and its lending operations commenced in June 1990.
Agricultural Credit Component
6.    Seasonal credit. Funds were made available under the project to cover, nationwide, short-
term credit needs of smallholder farmers for the purchase of inputs. During the 1992/93 season,
when the peak lending level was achieved, about 15,650 clubs representing some 390,000 farmers
obtained input credit from SACA. Considering the corresponding figures for the without project
situation (in 1987/88 government lent to 9,100 clubs consisting of 243,500 farmers), the project
recorded substantial growth rate in the coverage of clubs (70%) as well as farmers (60%), in line
with SAR estimates. Sub-loans for beneficiaries, borrowing through farmers clubs, averaged some
MK 350 as against the SAR goal of MK 150, resulting from the increased use of inputs and the
cost escalation. With the use of improved crop packages, seasonal loan disbursements increased
from MK 43.5 million in SACA's first year (1988/89) to MK 144.7 million in 1992/93.
7.    The credit disbursed to the smallholders by SACA has recorded an impressive growth
from MK 43.5 million in its first year, to a peak of MK 144.7 million in 1992/93. However, during
the 1993/94 season, disbursement plummeted and only 4,155 clubs received loans, because many
clubs remained defaulters due to the 1991/92 drought and external interventions in the recovery
process thereafter. The poor recovery performance has also effected the flow of credit during
1994/95 season when the amount of loans further declined to MK 15 million spread over 2,252
clubs including an amount of MK 2 million for 522 Estates (as of 20 January, 1995).
8.    With quick and high turnover of seasonal credit, SACA has exhausted much in advance
the original allocation of IDA Credit for Category 1 (seasonal credit) of about SDR 3 million. At
the request of the GOM, IDA had amended the DCA reallocating to Category 1 further SDR 1
2



MALAWI: SmalUholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 185 1-MAI)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
million from Categories 2 (Medium Term Credit), 4 (Technical Assistance) and 7 (Unallocated),
which was also fully utilized.
9.    Medium-term credit. SACA did not utilize the credit allocation of SDR 0.7 million under
this sub-component which was reallocated for seasonal credit (para 8). However, during the
project period, an amount of about MK 2.5 million was made available as loans to
smallholders/clubs to support various on-farm and off-farm investments. This expenditure was met
by SACA from its own resources and from funds available under bilateral assistance.
Institutional Support
10.   As indicated above, SACA was established in 1988 as a separate management and
accounting unit with departmental status within MOA as a Smallholder Credit Scheme. The
overall responsibility for policy guidance and control rested with PS of MOA who was supported
by the National Smallholder Credit Committee. Day to day management was carried out by the
Administrator supported by the Financial Controller, and other supporting staff. The former two
key positions were filled up in consultation with IDA. As of September 1991, a total of 433 staff
were assigned to work exclusively on SACA duties under ADD supervision in the field. However
Field Assistants (FAs) have undertaken large part of credit processing, supervision and recovery
and used an average of 40% of their working time in doing so. As a result of the restructuring of
SACA, and particularly the commencement of the Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP),
extension services have been delinked from credit activities as of September 1994. SACA staff, as
of 30 September, 1994 totalled 442 including 325 established posts.
11.   A total of 48 pm of Technical Assistance (TA) was provided by the project to develop
credit policies and procedures, establishment of an accounting and information system and training
programmes. As at appraisal, the total TA requirement was estimated at 52 pm, the financial
savings made under this category were used to carry out four studies: two on MT credit and one
each on Extension-Credit Delinkage and Defaulter Survey in Kasungu ADD. As indicated by
SACA officials, the technical advice rendered by the expatriate consultants lacked in full
appreciation of the problems and practices of the smallholder sector.
12.   The training programme included a total of nine overseas short term courses and four study
tours. Under the local training programme, a total of 92 SACA staff (supervisory level)
participated in various workshops/courses on credit and management, and informatics. A total of
about 400 field staff received training on various aspects of credit, club formation and
administration and computer application. Finally, under the project, some 9,000 club officials
attended training courses on club management, accounting and record keeping. Other guided credit
courses followed by courses for training of trainers, were given to 30 SACA staff under a co-
financing arrangement between IDA and USAID.
3



MALAWI: Smaflholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
13.   Vehicles, office furniture and equipment were procured without difficulties and included
two saloon cars, three four-wheelers and one pickup. As foreseen at appraisal, a total of 1,000
bicycles were to be provided to the field staff. With a view to improving their mobility, SACA
requested IDA to switch over to motorcycles. On acceptance, 100 bicycles and 200 motorcycles
were finally purchased. The first lot of 100 motorcycles were registered as GOM vehicles while
the rest were allowed to be registered in the names of individual staff concerned on hypothecation,
for operational convenience and economy of maintenance. As designed at appraisal, transport
facilities were not foreseen for the ADD offices and this has negatively affected staff mobility in
the field.
Pilot Credit and Saving Scheme for the Rural Poor
14.   The MMF was established in 1989. SDR 0.7 million IFAD loan was approved in
December 1987 and became effective in April 1989. The overall MMF programme, as designed at
appraisal, consisted in the establishment and staffing of four branch units of which two were to be
set up under Phase I, to be followed by the opening up of the two remaining branches under Phase
II. Phase II has not been implemented because of the start-up delay of almost one year for Phase I.
iMMF, registered as a Trust to provide loans for off-farm activities only, had 23 staff, 8 in the
Management Unit based at HQs in Zomba and 15 in the two branch offices in its last year of
operation. Since inception and commencement of lending operations in June 1990, the MMF
scheme has successfully assisted some 510 groups (2,440 members), established regular training
and weekly interaction with groups.
15.   Though the scheme has to date disbursed MK 0.7 million to about 2,400 beneficiaries, and
has reached an overall recovery rate of 85%, its sustainability without subsidies remains
questionable in its present form. Organizationally, MMF faced difficulties related to its status of a
public institution managed mostly by Government officials. This has given wrong signals to the
beneficiaries who perceived loans as grants (para 16). In its final form, MMF had diseconomies of
scale and disproportional high development costs and operational overheads, due to its restricted
area coverage and small lending volumes. Up to 1992/93 fiscal year, for every MK lent, about MK
6 were spent but, as a result of intensified operations and gradual transfer of responsibilities to
groups to partially assist in credit administration, operating costs have presently been reduced by
50%.
16.   The mission observed a few deviations from the Grameen Bank principles in the
implementation of the scheme such as: (i) the full loan is given in one tranche without enquiring
into the nature of the activity financed; (ii) a concessional interest rate, slightly below the rates
charged by SACA, is applied; (iii) the repayment period, originally fixed at 50 weeks, has been
reduced to 25 weeks in view of the seasonality of the activities financed (this had a positive effect
4



MALAWI: Smallholder Agncultral Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
on the recovery performance of the scheme); (iv) the weekly repayment system has in some cases,
been relaxed; (v) the perception of loans as grants by some beneficiaries; (vi) the relaxation of the
criteria of five members per group; and (vii) the non-involvement of village leaders in the sanction
of loans.
17.   The MMF pilot scheme has confirmed that rural households could repay credit even if they
could not provide acceptable collateral, and that cohesive self-help groups could be a very
effective mechanism for those without collateral to gain access to credit. Savings linked loans have
facilitated sanction of loans without collateral and, in this respect, MMF was able to establish four
savings schemes namely: the Group fund, the Personal Savings, Emergency Savings and the
Special Savings Fund, which are all well accepted by the members of the groups. In 1994/95, total
savings aggregated to MK 26,500.
18.   The MMF has made an important contribution to poverty alleviation by inducting and
adequately sustaining various income generating activities carried out by women. Disbursement
by gender has shown a strong and growing trend in favor of women who appear to be lower credit
risks than men. During the 1993/94 fiscal year, more than 90% of the loans were given to women.
Loan recovery rates, initially staggering around 50%, have substantially improved and reached
100% during 1993/94.
19.   An evaluation study of MMF was undertaken by CSR. The purpose of the study was to
analyze the operations and achievements of the MMF and document the lessons learnt during its
operations. In addition, an assessment of MMF staff was made in regard to their potential role in
the MRFC.
D. Actual Project Cost and Disbursement
20.   Actual project cost is estimated at US$ 14.2 million. Final overall disbursement includes:
IDA US$ 6.4 million, (SDR 4.6 million), IFAD US$ 6.6 million (SDR 4.7 million) and GOM US$
1.2 million. IDA credit has been fully utilized and final disbursement took place on 28 July 1994,
although Credit 185 1-MAI was closed on 30 June, 1995. IFAD loan 212-MW, under which some
SDR 0.2 million are still available, will remain open until MMF assets and liabilities are
transferred to MRFC.
E. Institutional Performance
21.   Management. The establishment of SACA was intended to be the first step to the
establishment of an independent viable and sustainable rural financial institution providing credit
to both smallholders and the entire agriculture sector. To this end, SACA could not be adequately
5



MALAWI: Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
guided by its management which lacked the required professional expertise to formulate
appropriate credit policies in line with the GOM development strategy. At the same time, some
management decisions were allowed to be influenced by external political considerations contrary
to sound banking principles as evidenced in the matter of loan recovery. In 1989/90 and 1990/91,
the 100% recovery rule was diluted to 80% for issue of new loans contrary to the covenant of the
DCA. In the following year, when Malawi experienced a severe drought, all new loans were
rescheduled across-the- board without enquiring into the intensity of the crop failure. Further, new
loans were also issued to defaulters. In 1992/93, despite the record maize production from the
smallholder sector of 2.0 million tons, the credit discipline further deteriorated due to wide-spread
political interventions in the recovery process. As a consequence of the above, the good recovery
performance of more than 95%, which characterized previous credit operations, decreased to about
85% during 1988/89 and 1990/91, 25% in 1991/92, and 15% in 1992/93. However in the
following year, loan recovery slightly improved to about 30% mainly due to very restricted
lending, amounting only to MK 27.4 million (para 6).
22.   Functional organization. Although training was provided to the field staff, in practice,
their specific duties and responsibilities and performance goals were not clearly indicated. This is
reflected in the SACA inability to get loan balance confirmations from clubs for an amount of
debts totalling MK 8.4 million as at end of March 1994, due to the failure of the field staff to
locate the concerned clubs. Although the failure was partly due to time constraint in so far as the
entire work was required to be concluded in 10 days time, the matter was not followed up by the
field staff nor pursued by the management of SACA. This also points to the inadequate internal
checks and controls built into the system and raises the question whether the credit assistants can
effectively command the number of clubs assigned to them.
23.   Financial management. The training component of the project was not adequately
designed to reflect the financial management requirements of SACA and too much emphasis was
given to credit administration, which resulted in poor attention being paid to book-keeping and
accounts. Although SACA regulations require provision for bad and doubtful debts, as of March
1994, the shortfall in the provision amounted to some MK 56 million. An additional effect of the
bad debt policy is that penalty interest has been charged on overdue debt and taken to the profit
and loss account as realized income despite the limited likelihood of achieving recovery. The
above consequences point to the need for a competent financial specialist which has been ignored
in the design of the project. Finally, in view of the fact that SACA had to deal with various
funding agencies operating in project-area specific programmes, the required coordination could
not be effectively brought about in the absence of a financial specialist.
24.   Policies and procedures. SACA was able to develop multiple and individual input
packages on which the relative loan amounts were based. Although useful feedback from field
staff and ADDs was taken into consideration in designing the input packages, SACA was not in a
position to make these packages flexible enough to respond to different agro-climatic conditions
6



MALAWI: Smallholder Agricultral Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Apperidix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
and local cultivation practices. In addition to the above, the actual credit disbursement was guided
by the resource availability of SACA often resulting in arbitrary cuts and rationing indicating that
the system was not demand-driven. In the absence of an operational strategy, SACA could not
build-up a system for supervision over the end use of the credit and monitoring the loan recoveries.
With this coupled with the impact of drought of 1991/92 and the political interference during
1992/93, total amount of defaulted loans reached MK 263 million by the end of 1994. Legal
actions have been initiated only in respect of defaults aggregating MK 4 million against the
chronic defaults amounting to MK 56.5 millions, presumably due to external pressure. Similarly,
recovery of loans through employers (e.g. GOM and/or SACA) by way of deduction from salaries
of the defaulters was not fully pursued and as of end January 1995 only about 40% of the total
amount in default at MK 0.7 million has been recovered.
F. Project Sustainability
25.   Although SACA benefited from 100% subsidization of its operating costs and cost free
resources for on-lending at near market rates, its operations have ended up in large losses if full
provision for bad and doubtful debts and unrealized income are taken into consideration. The
above, coupled with the lack of professional expertise of SACA management, organizational and
financial weaknesses, and external environmental constraints, clearly indicate that the project is
not sustainable. In regards to MMF, its organizational arrangements have suffered from high
operating costs with prohibitive overheads and limited outreach (paras 14 - 19). Furthermore,
MMF lacked the required infrastructure and institutional capacity to expand its operations to
achieve the required economies of scale to operate in a cost-effective manner. Therefore, MMF
was not able to achieve financial viability with its operating structure and mandate.
G. Future Outlook
26.   Under the IDA-financed Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP), SACA was taken over
by the Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) as of 1 October 1994. The objective of RFSP is
to improve the access to financial services in rural areas, to be achieved through MRFC as it
expands the activities carried out by SACA on a sustainable basis and eventually become a full
fledged rural development bank. Similarly, the MMF was merged with MRFC on 1 August 1995
and is to be a special financial facility to provide financial services to the rural poor on a national
scale, under the IFAD funded Mudzi Financial Services Project MFSP).
27.   The key lessons learnt are as follows:
* Based on historical performance, the viability of lending to smallholders is largely
dependent on the policy environment (e.g. price policy, infrastructure support,
7



MALAWI: Smaliholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
etc.) and institutional management, including loan recovery policies. Conflicting
policy environment (e.g. free distribution of inputs, actions and announcements
against recovery discipline) had undermine the financial system being developed.
*   Credit institutions must be able to operate free from political intervention.
*   The delinkage of credit and agricultural extension activities has been beneficial to
the project and the feedback from farmers has been positive.
*   The absence of beneficiaries' education on credit discipline and repayment ethics
has limited the effectiveness of the project training programme and failed to
mitigate the negative impact of political interventions.
*  Input packages should be flexible enough to meet actual beneficiaries' needs
according to different agro-climatic conditions and cultivation practices.
28.   Important lessons can be learnt from the MMF experience, including the following:
*  Certain aspects of the Grameen Bank model were modified and proved to work
under Malawian conditions.
*  The mobilisation of savings from resource-poor households was successful,
provided resources to the groups, and also built up risk funds.
*   Lending to women for off-farm activities proved to be very successful.
*  The repayment performance of women was higher than for men, which indicates
that lending to women reduces credit risk.
*   Internal harmony and cohesion within a group is essential to develop group
dynamics and strengthen the group.
* Personal contact with the beneficiaries can help both the clientele and the
institution, in regards to improving loan recoveries.
I. Follow-Up
28.   The mission returned to Rome on 9 February 1995. During the ensuing three weeks it
prepared the draft ICR which was transmitted to the WB by the end of February 1995. It is
8



MALAWI: Snialholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
recommended that the GOM should also finalize its implementation completion report and submit
it to the World Bank.
9






MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






The borrower's final evaluation report of the Smallholder Agriculture Credit Project was completed
and submitted in November 1995. This report is largely based on the draft ICR report prepared by
the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme.
The borrower did not provide a summary of its contribution.






MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
APPENDIX C-1
SACA CREDIT OPERATIONS






MALAWI: Smahllolder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 185 1-MAI)
Appendix C-I: SACA Credit Operations
Table 1. SACA: Seasonal Credit Disbursement -
Coverage of Beneficiaries and Average Size of Loans
Coverage of Beneficiaries              Average Size of Loan
Year       No. of    No. of        Of        % of      Club    Member        US$
Clubs    Benefici    which    Women    (MK)          (MK)
aries    Women
1987/88     9,072    243,468    72,543      29.80      2,943       110        44
(17.90)
1988/89    10,570    301,375    74,808      24.82      3,993       140        54
(22.16)
1989/90    10,772    315,170    94,338      29.93      5,223       178        66
(23.18)
1990/91"    12,394    362,648    108,541    29.93      6,307      216         80
(26.67)
1991/92    11,199    320,707    93,454      29.14      7,717      269        100
(23.58)
1992/93    15,646    392,291    112,305     28.63      9,249      369         84
(28.84)
1993/9v    4,155      78,405     26,752     34.12      6,595      350         78
(5.77)
Notes:       Figures in bracket - no. of beneficiaries as % of total number of farm families (total no. of farm
families assumed to be constant at 1,359,885 as of 1982/83).
Source:     SACA.
I/          No. of beneficiaries/women estimated as of 1990/91.
2/          No. of beneficiaries/women are approximate.



MALAWI: Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix C-i: SACA Credit Operations
Table 2. SACA: Seasonal Credit Disbursed to SmalHholder Farmers Clubs
(Amount"1MK million)
ADD               1987/88   1988/89 | 1989/90 | 1990/91   1991/92   1992/93    1993/94
Karonga             0.59      0.97      1.31      1.26       1.25      1.77       0.83
Mzuzu               3.22      4.17      9.88      8.73      7.85      15.74       6.64
Kasungu             8.88     13.55     12.32      16.17     26.90     44.31       6.64
Lilongwe            8.50     14.28     18.32     27.48      34.21     48.00       6.38
Salima              1.45      3.08      3.77      6.06      5.68       8.08       1.42
Machinga            1.71      3.36      5.51      8.08      8.79      14.32       4.29
Blantyre            2.38      3.63      5.44      9.28      6.00      10.96       0.72
Ngabu               0.39      0.51      0.81      1.11      0.32       1.53       0.48
TOTAL:             27.12     43.55     57.36     78.17      90.00    144.71      27.40
Source:     SACA.
N.B.:       During 1994/95, Seasonal Credit Disbursed amounted to MK 15 million over 2,252 clubs (including
MK 2 million for 522 Estates).
Includes interest for 12 months and excludes loans to barley tobacco clubs (Mk 11.18 million in
1992/93; MK 7.70 million in 1993/94).



MALAWI: Snaliholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MA)
Appendix C-i: SACA Credit Operations
Table 3. SACA: Seasonal Credit for Inputs-Growth Rates
Seasonal Credit                         Inputs
Amount                                    Quantity
Year           Disbursed       Growth        Value       (fertilizer)"   Growth
(MK mil)         (%)        (MK mil)    ('000 tons)        (%)
1987/88          27.12            -          23.65           50              -
1988/89          43.55           60.6        37.15           55            10.0
1989/90          57.36           31.7        52.04           76            38.2
1990/91          78.17           36.3        67.81           76             ...
1991/92          90.00           15.1        78.14           77             1.3
1992/93         144.71           60.8       121.77           80             3.9
1993/94          27.40         (-81.1)       21.10           13          (-84.0)
SACA estimates.



MALAWI: SmalUholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix C-1: SACA Credit Operations
Table 4. MMF - Groups Formed and Trained
No. of Groups                             No. of Members
Year              Male         Female         Total          Male         Female         Total
1990/91            48            132           180           240            660            900
1991/92            2             32             34            10            160            170
1992/93            -             89             89            -             337            337
1993/94            -             85             85            -             419            419
1994195"           -             123           123            -             617            617
Cumulative         50            461           511           250           2,193         2,443
Source: MMF.
Table 5. MMF - Credit Disbursement
No. of Loans                          Loans Disbursed (MK)
Year             Male          Female         Total          Male         Female         Total
1990/91           130            348           478        43,370.00      87,395.20     130,765.20
1991/92            17            151            168        3,664.50      29,449.75      33,164.25
1992/93             2            221           223           609.00      48,807.00      49,416.00
1993/94            -             621           621            -          143,189.00    143,189.00
1994/952/          -             921           921            -         326,537.00    326,537.00
TOTAL:            149           2,262         2,411        47,643.50     635,377.95    683,021.45
Source: MMF.
I/          Represent period April to December 1994.
2/          Represent period April to December 1994.



MALAWI: Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAt)
Appendix C-i: SACA Credit Operations
Table 6. MMF - Loan Recovery Performance
Year                  Amount Repaid (MK)        Repayment Rate (%)
1990/91                    77,184.53                    52
1991/92                    24,863.52                    65
1992/93                    48,872.40                    89
1993/94                   156,466.38                    92
1994/95                   315,695.39                    99
TOTAL:                    623,102.25                    85
Source: MMF.
Table 7. MMF - Group Savings
I                       ~~~~~~Savins MK
Year"'           Group Fund       Personal       Emergency         Special          Total
1990/91            7,454.90        1,259.32           -               -            8,714.22
1991/92           10,509.00        2,189.00         330.00          207.00        13,235.00
1992/93            4,250.00        4,379.00        1,948.00         231.00        10,808.00
1993/94           11,141.00        9,543.00        5,233.69         654.35        26,572.04
1994/95           23,665.44       11,115.76       11,943.46        1,262.85       47,988.01
Source: MMF.
I/          Balances at the end of each financial year.



MALAWI: Snallholder Agncultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix C-1: SACA Credit Operations
Table 8. SACA - Performance of Clubs in Recovery
Average No. of Clubs" per Staff
No. of Clubs Financed    No. of Clubs Repaid         Recovery          Total No. of              Member (field)
(seasonal credit)                                Percentage       Clubs Defaulting
Year                                    Full        Part                                              No. Financed     No. Defaulted
1987/88              9,072             7,981        1,683           94.66               1,683             34.2               6.4
1988/89             10,861             7,674       3,135            86.26               3,135             41.0              11.8
1989/90             10,985             7,610       3,320            87.70               3,322             41.2              12.5
1990/91             12,394             7,913       4,066            85.15               4,127             46.8              15.6
1991/92             12,133             1,180       8,592            24.85              10,953             45.8              41.3
1992/93             15,646             1,090       6,520            15.04              14,557             59.1              54.9
1993/94             4,155               548         1,860           31.44               3,486              15.7             13.2
Source: SACA.
Entire staff in ADDs (excluding headquarters/non-established staff):
- (assumed no change in staff at 265)
- (clubs exclude burley clubs, etc.)



MALAWI: Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix C-1: SACA Credit Operations
Table 9. SACA - Accumulated Loan Defaults and Provisions
(as at end September 1994)"
Defaults              Provision Needed
......................... (M...K million) .
(a) Defaults under 1993/94 Loans                 27.2           1
(b) Areas Loans 1992/93                         121.8                     103.3
(c) Rescheduled Loans 1991/92                    57.7           J
(d) Old Loans (over 3 years)                     56.5                      56.5
Total                                        263.2                      159.8
(e) Provision made                                -                       103.8
(f) Shortfall in Provision                                                 56.0
Data provided by SACA: Figures do not include M.T. Loans and losses on interest income as well as
likely losses from disputed loans (MK 0.4 million) and book differences (MK 8.4 million).



MALAWI: Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 185 1-MAI)
Appendix C-1: SACA Credit Operations
Table 10. Action Plan for Credit Recovery Prior to RFSP Effectiveness
Action                               Responsibilit                          Performance Indicators                   Status
1. General Statement on Credit Recovery Policy          CABINET/NCC              Radio and newspaper announcements                   Complied with
and Enforcement
2. Restoration of 100% Credit Repayment Policy      Government (MOA/MOF)         a. Daily radio and weekly newspaper announcements for    Complied with
(only clubs which pay their loans in full qualify                               April and May
for future loans)
b. Administrative circular to all SACA staff and FAs
restating Credit Recovery Principles and Guidelines
3. Restatement of Members Joint and Several         Government (MOA/MOF)         a. Daily radio and weekly newspaper announcements for    Complied with
Liability for all Farmers' Club Debts                                           April and May
b. Administrative circular to all SACA staff and FAs
restating Credit Recovery Principles and Guidelines
* Enforce 100% Recovery and Restore Credit      Government through SACA/MRFC
Discipline
i. List of all Defaulting Clubs and Individuals         SACA/MRFC               Copies of list of defaulters provided to MOA, MOF and    Complied with
IDA by April 30, 1994
ii. Place Liens on Salaries and Pensions on               MOF/SACA               Letter issued by MOF authorising deduction at source for all
Defaulting Individuals                                                        listed defaulters in paid GOM employment
iii. Place Liens on Tobacco Auction Floor Proceeds        MOA/SACA               Letter issued to TCC requesting that stop-order to recover
for Defaulting Clubs and Individuals                                          outstanding loans from listed defaulters
iv. Institute Court Action Against Defaulting         MOA,SACA/MRFC              A minimum of 2,000 cases of largest defaulters taken to
Clubs/Individuals                                                             court and evidence of judgement on defaulted amount of at
least MK 20 million
Although letters were issued for deduction of loan amounts due from salaries for an amount of MK 0.7 million, covering 984 employees, an amount of
only MK 0.3 million was recovered due to ineffective follow-up of the recoveries.
2/     As at end September 1994, the recovery of loans from burley tobacco clubs was 63% for 1992/93 at 58% for 1993/94 from cut of loans due at
MK 11.18 million and MK 7.07 million, respectively.
3/     As at end September 1994, Court Cases were filed up in respect of MK 3.97 million covering about 14,000 cases as against chronic defaulted amount of
MK 56.54 million; of this, an amount of MK 0.22 million has been received.



MALAWI: Smaliholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Apperndix C-i: SACA Credit Operations
Table 11. SACA - Recovery Performance of Seasonal Credit vis-a-vis Field Staff in Position
(Amount in MK million)
Clubs Financed      Clubs Defaulted                 No. of field  Average No. of clubs per Staff Member
Name of ADD                          l                     % Recovery    Staff "
No.  | Amount        No.  | Amount                                    Financed      I   Defaulted        Total
1987/88   Karonga             538       0.59       152       0.06       89.31         20              27                  8             35
Mzuzu               779       3.22       297       0.15        95.24        34              23                  9             32
Kasungu            2,120      8.88       447       1.02        88.49        40              53                  11            64
Lilongwe           2,533      8.50       385       0.03        99.68        70              36                  6             42
Salima              641       1.45        127      0.07        95.36        25              26                  5             31
Machinga           1,002      1,71        115      0.04        97.79        39              25                  3             28
Blantyre           1,061      2.38        90       0.05        97.86        31              34                  3             37
Ngabu               398       0.39        70       0.03        93.35        14              29                  5             34
TOTAL:             9,072     27.12      1,683      1.45        94.66       265              (34)1"             (6)2/          (40)11
1992/93   Karonga             610       1.77       408       1.03        42.08"       20              31                 21             52
Mzuzu              2,002     15.74      1,883      13.67       13.17        34              59                 56             115
Kasungu            3,784     44.31      3,639     39.70         10.42"      40              95                 91             186
Lilongwe           3,571     48.00      3,508     41.34        13.87        70              51                 50             101
Salima             1,151      8.08      1,088      7.22        10.54        25              45                 44             89
Machinga           2,001      14.31     1,718      10.26       28.34        39              51                 44             95
Blantyre           1,786      10.96     1,636      8.97        18.14        31              58                 53             111
Ngabu               741       1.53       587       0.76        50.59        14              53                 42              95
TOTAL:            15,646     144.71    14,557    122.95        15.04       265              (59)''             (55)2/        (1 14)11
Source: SACA.
I/     Entire staff in each ADD (excluding HQs/non-established staff).
2/     Weigthered averages.
3/     Highest.
4/     Lowest.






MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
APPENDIX C-2
MAIZE BUDGET (PER HA) IN ECONOMIC TERMS



MALAWI: Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 185 1-MAI)
Appendix C-2: Maize Budget (per ha) in Economic Terms
Table 1. Import Parity Prices
Maize               Urea                DAP
.     .                (US$/ton) .......
World market constant 1990 prices"            102                133                  160
MUV index"                                    109                109                  109
World Bank prices constant 1995               111                145                  174
Freight insurance and port charges            45                  45                  45
Cif Mozambique port                           156                190                 219
Transport cost to Lilongwe"                   40                  40                  40
Cif Lilongwe                                  196                230                 259
.................................. (MK/kg)...................
Cif Lilongwe"                                2.94                3.45                3.89
SFFRFM costs (10%)"                            -                0.35                 0.39
Prices at main delivery sites                2.94                3.80                4.28
Transport farm delivery sites"              (0.23)              0.23                 0.23
Losses (7%)                                 (0.21)                                               l
Farmgate economic prices                     2.50               4.03                 4.51
Farmgate financial prices (1994/95)           2.00"              n.a                 n.a
"    World Bank commodity price forecasts (November 1994).
2/   400 km at MK 1.5/ton/km.
31    US$ 1 = MK 15.
4/   Including rebagging, storage, ADMARC fees, transport and overheads.
5/    150 km at MK 1.5/ton/km.
6/    Announced by GOM in February 1995.



MALAWI: Smaliholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851-MAI)
Appendix C-2: Maize Budget (per ha) in Economic Terms
Table 2. Budget per Hectare for Local and Hybrid Maize in Economic Terms (1994/95)
Local Maize                  Hybrid Maize
Gross Value of Production:
Yield (kg/ha)                                    900                          2,700
Price (ton/kg)"                                  200                            200
Gross value of production (MKlha)               1,800                         5,400
Production Costs:
Seed (local)"                                     70
Seed (selected: 25 kg)"                           -                             -
Fertilizer - 23:21:0+45 (50 kg)"                  -                             375
Fertilizer - DAP (80 kg)"                         -                             361
Fertilizer - CAN (40 kg)"
Fertilizer - UREA (170 kg)"                       -                             685
Miscellaneous                                     30                             30
Transport"                                       203                            608
Credit charges"                                                                 580
Total production costs                           303                          2,639
Net Value of Production (MK/ha)                  1,497                         2,761
Number of mandays                                  113                           153
Return per manday (MK/day)                        13.2                          18.0
As indicated in Table 1, the import parity price for maize has been estimated at MK 2.5/kg. In the context of
Malawi where maize is to be considered as now tradeable, the farmgate price of MK 2.0/kg would better
reflect the economic price of maize.
2/    At MK 2/kg: 35 kg/ha.
3/    At MK 15/kg (without subsidies).
4/    At MK 4.73/kg (estimated).
51    At MK 4.51 (see Table 1).
6/    At MK 4.66/kg (estimated).
7/    At MK 4.03/kg (see Table 1).
8/    At MK 1.5/ton/km; average 150 km.
9'    Estimated at 40% of input costs excluding transport.



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
APPENDIX C-3
SMALLHOLDER CROP HECTARAGE ESTIMATES



Smalibolder Crop Hectarage Estimates
('000 Hectares)
I   ~~   1982/83  98384   tW194185    198M88    196/87   1987188    198889    19890    1900/91    1991/92    1992113
w 1.I. A           1.18 .6    1.1,44.8    1.193.3    1.18:.4    1:15.1    1.7    Q.9                     1.M.1    %,=t57.11
Locl naize                      1,067.5    1,048.4    1,104.6    1,131.5    1,137.5    1,180.0   1,184.0    1,193.8   1,137.9     996.8
Composite Mize                    26.1       21.5       20.1       13.8       18.7       25.1      24.7       18.9      13.3        3.9
Hybtid mai.                       89.0       74.9       68.6       37.1       58.9       85.8     135.0      179.4     216.9      326.4
Rice                     20.3       21.9      20.8       22.9       19.1       22.7       25.6      29.0       32.8      18.2       38.8
Gmundnuts               148.3      144.9     138.0      176.3      209.9      175.8      139.7      48.2       70.0      64.4       61.1
4r.0       37.7      331        24.1       21.5       3C0       33.3       32.5      4JS3;
nndt                                         35.8       29.4       27.8       20.2       16.7      24.4       26.7      25.6       21.5
ad                                            4.2        3.4        1.7        1.7        1.2       1.0        0.8       0.8        1.3
surl4ir                                       6.3        4.9        3.6        1.8        2.7       4.7        3.7       2.7        1.5
oria                                          0.7                   0.2        0.4        0.7       0.6        0.9       1.0        1.7
butby                                                                                     0.2       02         1.2       2.4       20.2
Coaton                   32.6       51.1      60.8       51.9       34.5       43.6       47.7      48.5       58.7      58.3       53.7
Case"                    59.4       81.5      81.3       72.9       64.9       61.8       72.8     s65         71.6      64.0       75.1
Sorghum                  22.6       21.3      32.7       32.1       30.6       30.1       29.8      30.8       31.0      27.7       43.9
MAtte                    10.9       15.3       17.4       17.4      18.2       19.4       17.9       19.6      15.0       14.8      24.2
PuasM                    82.9      91.3       80.0      114.0      153.0      160.0      149.0     215.0      191.0     192.0      196.4
bfns                                                    71.0       87.0      129.0       94.0      96.0      116.0     123.0      132.9
pes                                                     39.0       61.0       28.0       48.0     114.0       70.0      68.0       62.7
grams                                                    4.0        5.0        3.0        7.0       5.0        5.0        1.0       0A
Soya                                                                            1.0        2.0        6.0      16.0      22.0       15.8
Ground Beans                                                                               1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0       0.9
Guar Ben                  3.0        3.0        3.0       2.0        2.0        2.0        3.0       3.0        5.0        2.0       3.2
Whet                      2.0        2.0        1.0       2.0        3.0        3.0        2.0       2.0        1.0        1.0       1.6
Sunflower                 3.0        3.0        4.0    -  4.0        3.0        3.0        5.0       4.0        8.0       10.0      16.2
Chilles                                                                                    1.0        2.0       2.0        2.0       1.2
Swet Potatoes                      21.0       23.0       22.0       29.0       29.0       44.0      30.0       48.0       20.0      36.8
irish Potato"                                                                   3.0        3.0        4.0       6.0        6.0       6.2
TOTAL                1,412.3   1,472.1    1,496.0    1,641.3    1,563.7    1,6S6.1    1,670.6   1,802.0    1,879.5    1,8214    1,848.6
(Percenge Distribution]
198VS3    1983184   19.85    I 985/86    1986J87    1987/88    i988/89    1989/90   1990/91    1991/92    199293
3bfzv                   147%      UL3%       7A%        77.0%      75.1%      TV.2%      71.1%    ?70%        741%      75.1%      75.3!
I  calmmuze                      72.5%     70.1%      71.3%      72.8%      71.3%      69.4%      65.7%     63.5%      62.5%     53.9%
I Comnpositeb Mo0n                t1.8%      1.4%       1.3%      0.9%       1.2%       1.5%       1.4%      1.0%       0.7%      0.2%
i Hybrid m                         6.0%       5.0%       4.4%       2.4%       3.7%       5.1%      75%        9.5%     11.9%      17.7%
IRice                    1.4%      1.5%       1.4%       1.5%       1.2%       1.4%       1.5%      1.8%       1.7%      1.0%       2.1%
IGrounnuts              10.4%      9.8%       9.1%      11.4%      13.5%      11.0%       8.4%      2.7%       3.7%      3.5%       3.3%
*Ttabmm                                       3.914%      Z4%       711%       55%        I3%       5.7%       13%      1tJ%        2.5%
nndf                                        2.4%        1.9%      1.8%       1.3%       1.0%       1.4%      1.4%       1.4%      1.2%
iddE                                         0.3%       0.2%      0.1%       0.1%       0.1%       0.1%      0.0%       0.0%      0.1%
sun-air                                     0.4%        0.3%      0.2%       0.1%       0.2%       0.3%      0.2%       0.1%      0.1%
oiental                                                                                                                 0.1%      0.1%
burle                                                                                                        0.1%       0.1%      1.1%
Cotton                  2.3%       3.5%       4.1%       3.3%      2.2%       2.7%       2.9%       2.7%      3.1%       3.2%      2.9%
iCasum                  4.2%       5.5%       5.4%       4.7%      4.2%       3.9%       4.4%       3.4%      3.8%       3.5%      4.1%
Sorghtin                1.6%       1.4%       2.2%       2.1%      2.0%       1.9%       1.8%       1.7%      1.6%       1.5%      2.4%
Mdlbt                   0.8%       1.0%       1.2%       1.1%       1.2%      1.2%       1.1%       1.1%      0.8%       0.8%       1.3%
Fpouhs                  5.9%       6.2%       5.4%       7.4%       9.8%      10.0%       8.9%     11.9%      10.2%     10.5%      10.6%
boom                                                   4.6%       5.6%       8.1%       5.6%      5.3%       5.2%       6.8%      7.2%
Pe                                                     2.5%       3.9%       1.8%       2.9%      8.3%       3.7%       3.7%      3.4%
nrarms                                                0.3%       0.3%       0.2%       0.4%       0.3%      0.3%       0.1%      0.0%
So2                                                                           0.1%       0.1%       0.3%      0.9%      132%       0.9%
Ground Beans                                                                             0.1%       0.1%      0.1%       0.1%      0.0%
Guar Ben                02%        02%        02%        0.1%      0.1%       0.1%       0.2%       0.2%      0.3%       0.1%      0.2%
Wheat                   0.1%       0.1%       0.1%       0.1%       0.2%      0.2%       0.1%       0.1%      0.1%       0.1%      0.1%
Sunfkow                 0.2%       0.2%       0.3%       0.3%      0.2%       0.2%       0.3%       0.2%      0.4%       0.5%      0.9%
Chiules                                                                                  0.1%       0.1%      0.1%       0.%       0.1%
Swet Potatoe            0.0%       1.4%       1.5%       1.4%       1.9%      1.8%       2.6%       1.7%      2.6%       1.1%      2.0%
Irish Poatoe                                                                  0.2%       0.2%       0.2%      0.3%       0.3%      0.3%
TOTAL               100.0%     1604%      1000%      1000%      10O-%      10110%    80.0%      100.0%    1 %        1000%      100.0%
Soumet: Cmp Piodion !atniatea MOA
SMALLHOLDER CROP HECTARAGES
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~____                                               Tio _  __
an
1,6153    1,6445     116647     116551     IMbil    11021Y3
Ymr






IBRD 20150
32              \_<nD= SSLM3                                                                                    36,  
'Y \
'7  * >'-9.                 ._MALAWI
->   Ch,w,phso -\    '5 \\/SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL
N SS   >XS                 CREDIT PROJECT
_10                                          y \k'<ARONG6,0
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
DIVISiONS BOUNDARIES
ADD HEADQUARTERS
\dO-ClbaI-                       MAIN ROADS
s-h-i  RAILWAYS
' I, ng s t           om>ChFwero l   RIVERS
/} 0j        /   OM,ose      \             _._   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/                  *,         /~~~~~~~~~~~
/                             ~        ~        ~~~~~~ ~~) EtatseO   \
?/~~~~~~~~~M ZUZU    C OUSISYo 
.It.    p~~~~~~~~~~
Vt boo      /~3                   000555 tNkh.t.  - - - - - -
z    A    M     B    I   A!                  mbi*/lOA
CHIZUMULLU
SLAND
|t ha bt  eeM                                                   O     Z    A     M   B     I  Q     U    E
\    ~~~~}        N~~~kh.,.k.t.
otetta,f .s aton Th Aloh Ba-\
Mhe nte,nahenga \ an e
Ot th, thf doo no  \nrt  nt th
1 et Nf T  0GWE                                                            Ch-t k Ba4e cht I
ant              _--0ghtehf Oh theO etLIL  
ant t--_ I ellt --t
- C,h-s -a Tas been - prprd0 \J                                          , &                        d   
tor   0he  Z   A       e            2 I    0 ol     hO               T
Corpor~~~~~~Alo TheeoAin    ^VI l1~^^_
on IhfS maD do not mnX on  0h20           oBo0ka  l,                                           
SOUTH  AOP,CAo fmancrLES________________L_wonde_/
,KtOMETEOS
5 2'0  40   60   R    1 60   1t  tOT4~   160             nt3 e   __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
APRIL 1987









,--I
C12
r-l
,I)
--     .  i
H                          C, 1   ,a.
K  q                      r_,    t



