Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/2Z/ 1   AE1AI0
Report No. 6886-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(IDA/IFAD CREDIT)
October 9, 1987
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witout World Bank anthorizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawian Kwacha (MK)
US$  1.00          =         MK  2.30
MK   1.00          =          US$ 0.43
SDR  1.00                    MK  --
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (Ckm)                   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)   =        0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)              =       2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)                  2,204 lb
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIL US ONLY
ACRONYMS
ADD        Agricultural Development Divis4,ns
ADMARC     Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
AfDB       African Development Bank
CA         Credit Assistant
CAS-NRDP   Controller of Agricultural Services - NRDP
CBM        Commercial Bank of Malawi
DAH        Department of Animal Health
EDF        European Development Fund
EEC        European Economic Community
EPA        Extension Planning Areas
GB         Grameen Bank
GOM        Government of Malawi
IDA        International Development Association
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INDEBANK   Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
INDEFUND   Investment and Development Fund
KFW        Kreditanstalt Fuer Wiederaufbau
KFTCA      Kasungu Flue Cured Tobacco Authority
KRADD      Karonga Agricultural Development Division
ODA        Overseas Development Administration
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MDC        Malawi Development Corporation
MMF        Malawi Mudzi Fund
MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MUSCCO     Malawi Union of Savings Credit-Cooperatives
NADD       Ngabu Agricultural Development Division
NBM        National Bank of Malawi
NRDP       National Rural Development Program
OPC        Office of the President and Cabinet
PO         Professional Officer
POSB       Post Office Savings Bank
PS         Principal Secretary
RBM        Reserve Bank of Malawi
RDP        Rural Development Projects
SA         Scheme Administration
SACA       Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SAO        Senior Administrative Officer
SCA        Smallholder Coffee Authority
SCF        Smallholder Credit Fund
SEDOM      Small Enterprise Development Organization of Malawi
SSF        Settlement Scheme Fund
STA        Smallholder Tea Authority
STO        Senior Technical Officer
TA         Technical Assistant
TO         Technical Officer
UNCJF      United Nrtion Capital Development Fund
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary .9.. ...................                i
I.    PROJECT AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND ..........................          1
A.  Project Background .......... . . . .. .. . . . . .. . .. . . .. . . .  .  1
B.  Sectoral Background ..................          .              1
Economic Setting .....I.... ..... ....................       1
The Agricultural Sector         ............................  3
Performance Trends ..3..........................*...         3
The Smallholder Subsector         3.........................  3
Development Constraints in the Smallholder Subsector         4
Government Objectives and Strategy for Smallholder
Agriculture ...........................5
Bank, IFAD, and Other Donors' Strategies and
Assistance *.e...........................-.-.-.-.            7
II.   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT ...............                   9........     9
A* General ............    .................. ..............    9
B.  Smallholder Agricultural Credit ........... ,..........        9
Flow of Credit Funds          ...............................    10
Credit Disbursement and Repayment          ..................    11
Institutional Framework ....  ........     ...............    11
Performance of NRDP Credit          .........................    12
Constraints on the Credit System ....        ...............    17
The Near-Landless and RUral Poor          ..................    17
III.  THE PROJECT  .99...... .........................    *      990    18
A.  Project Objectives and Design ...................*...         18
Project Objectives            ..................   .. ...    18
Project Design .............................                19
B.  Project Summary and Description       ......................    19
C.  Detailed Features ...            ......................       20
Agricultural Credit *9................9.............    20
Institutional Support ***         * ......     ..... *..    21
Pilot Credit and Savings Scheme for the Rural Pocr   .  23
D.  Credit Requirements  *0*9      ..............................    23
Seasonal Credit         ....................................    23
Medium-term Credit          .................................    26
Total Lending and Net Credit Requirements        ..........   27
E.  Total Project Costs  .9.......                         ...    28
F.  Project Financing  ... . ..         .......................   30
Go Procurement *......        ..................................    31
H.  Disbursement *9        ....................................    33
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission that visited
Malawi in February 1987 and comprised Messrs. Y. Doka (IDA), J. Intrator,
and Janakiram (consultants).



-2-
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION I* ................. ...e,,*              34
A.  Organization and Management  ...  .......o......oe           34
General  .o*eo ** ...................... *.......          34
SACA                           *vvve¢^¢o§*v*¢@*§*oX¢ ....................... 35
SCF ? * **  *  00 a¢  ¢a I0 o*  ¢*  ...............  *osee,eo***oo*ooeq*......o......    36
Pilot Credit and Savings Scheme         ...................    37
Training . .................................               37
B.  Lending Policies and Procedures .....................    38
Interest Rates *...s.... .e....*0,*****   ,.,.o            38
C.  Annual Lending Program      ,.........    39
D.  Credit Staff vv+#e*Zvee¢o**ov* ............................  40
E.  Computerization of the Credit System         .................    40
F.  Strengthening the Farmers' Club Movement        .............    40
G.  Mobilization of Rural Savings ........... .............    41
H.  Reporting, Accounts, and Audit .......................    41
I.  Monitoring and Evaluation   ........ ...................    42
J.  Implementation Schedule          ...........................  42
K.  Environmental Impact         .......................... ..    42
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .                                    43
A.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ......................    43
B.  Financial ard Economic Benefits .....  .................     44
C.  Projected Financial Results of the SCF ...............    45
D.  Direct Budgetary Impact ,,... ........,......,..    46
E.  Project Risks        ....................................*   46
VI,   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................    47
Chart 1 - Department of Agriculture in MOA With Prop(sed Smallholder Credit
Administration (SACA)
Chart 2 - Implementation Schedule
Annex 1 - Table 1 Number of Smallholder Farms and Cultivated Area by
Holding Size (1984/85)
Annex 2 - Table 1  Status of ADD/RDP Credit Funds - September 30, 1986
Table 2  Status of ADD Credit Funds - September 30, 1986 -
Unaudited
Table 3  Average Subloan and Holding Sizes
Table 4  Seasonal Credit - 1985/86 - 1986/87
Table 5  Credit and Credit Accounting Staff - October 1, 1986



- 3 -
Annex 3 - Table 1  Incremental Smallholder Credit
Table 2  Institutional Building
Table 3  Pilot Credit Scheme for the Rural Poor I
Table 4  Pilot Credit Scheme fQr the Rural Poor II
Table 5  Disbursement by Financier by Semester
Table 6  Financing Plan by Project Components
Annex 4 - Financial Operations of the Central Credit Fund (SCF)
Annex 5 - Table 1 Projectgd Annual Lending Program - Period October 1,
1987 - September 30, 1988
Annex 6 - Table 1  Crop Recommendations and Fertilizer Practices
Table 2 Yields and Fertilizer Responses
Table 3 Maize Crop Budget and Gross Margins - Constant 1987 MK -
With and Without Fertilizer
Table 4 Groundnuts and Cotton: Crop Budgets and Gross Margins -
With and Without Fertilizer
Table 5  Tobacco (NDDF): Crop Budgets and Gross Margins - With
and Without Fertilizer
Table 6  Traditional Dairy Cows Activity Budget
Table 7  Improved Dairy Cows Activity Budget
Table 8  Activity Budget - Poultry (100 bird deep litter system)
Table 9  Activity Budget - Poultry (100 bird deep battery system)
Annex 7 - Pilot Credit Scheme for the Landless
Annex 8 - Agricultural Credit/Training Adviser - Terms of Reference
Annex 9 - Table 1 Credit Demand Projections - Maize Self-sufficiency
Table 2 Actual and Projected Annual Lending and Credit Coverage
Table 3 Number of Borrowers, Fa.-m Families, and Uptake of
Seasonal Credit
Table 4 Approximate Number of Meidum-term Loans
Annex 10 An Overview of the Expected Investment Demand
Annex 11 Recommended Chemical Inputs Used by Smallholders in Malawi
IBRD Map No. 20152
IBRD Map No. 20608



-4-
Other documentation and data available in the Project fila:
1. IFAD Reconnaissance Mission Report, April 1986.
2. Preparation Mission Working Papers:
(a)  Working Paper No. I:  The Smallholder Credit Administration and
the Central Credit Fund;
(b) Working Paper No. II: Impact of Agricultural Credit on the
Smallholder Subsector;
(c) Working Paper No* III: Estimation of Demand for Seasonal Credit;
(d)  Working Paper No. IV:  Estimation of Demand for Medium-term and
Non-seasonal Credit;
(e) Working Paper No. V: Production and Markets; and
(f) Working Paper No. VI: Identification of a Pilot Credit Scheme for
the Landless.



- I -
MALAWI
SMALLIHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Malawi
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Agriculture and the Office of the President
and Cabinet.
Amount:              SDR 4.6 million (US$5.9 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms.
Co-financier:        International Pund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
Project
Description:         The primary aim of this Project is to transform
Malawi's smallholder credit syqtem into a better-
managed, more efficient, and financially viable
national credit delivery system that would benefit a
significantly greater number of smallholders than at
present. The Project prov'des funds for seasonal and
medium term credit. It also provides for additional
staff, staff training, technical assistance, vehicles,
equipment and other facilities to transform the
existing credit unit of the Agricultural Department of
Ministry of Agriculture into a Smallholder Credit
Administration, with Departmental status. The new
Credit Administration would have responsibility for
management at a national level of smallholder credit
funds. Moreover, the Project provides for a pilot
credit scheme for rural poor, which would attempt to
adapt to Malawian conditions, a system of group credit
for non-land based economii activities similar to the
successful IFAD-funded Grameen Bank project in
Bangladesh.
Benefits and
Risks:               The Project would assist in economic development of the
smallholder subsector by providing seasonal and
Investment credit.  A broad spectrum of farm families
throughout the country would benefit from increased
production resulting from the use of improved farm
technologies applied with the use of credit and
extension.  The Project would create a basis for a
viable and sustainable institutional fraw-work to



- ii -
better serve the smallholder subsector with credit.
Possible risks include delayed implementation;
inadequate producer prices; unstable marketing
arrangements; and the inability of research and
extension services to develop snd disseminate suitable
technologies. These risks would be minimized through
technical assistance to strengthen project
implementation capability; the on-going policy reform
program on pricing, subsidy, and marketing issues; and
assistance to strengthen research and extension through
on-going IDA-financed pro!ects.
Estimated Cost
Local     Foreign      Total
…(US$ '000) …
Technical Assistance                               52         468         520
Vehicles                                           -          336         336
Office Supplies and Equipment                      17          70          87
Overseas (Neighboring Countries) Tra4ning          --         280         280
Local Training                                    541         142         682
Pilot Credit and Savings Scheme                   432         449         881
Seasonal Credit                                 2,091       6,273      8,364
Medium-Term Credit                                377       1,508       1,885
Recurrent Costs                                   239          62         301
Total Baseline Costs                 3,749       9,588      13,336
Physical Contingencies                             49         140         189
Price Contingencies                               254         624         877
Total Project Costs                  4,052      10,351      14,402
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total         X
---- US$ Million ------------
IDA                       0.9          5.0          5.9          41
IFAD                       1.5         5.4          6.9          48
Beneficiaries             0.2            0          0.2           1
Government                 1.4           0          1.4          10
Total                 4.0         10.4         14.4         100



- i1i -
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit and IFAD Loan/Grant
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
…US$ Million -
IDA 'eredit
During FY
Cumulative             0.2      0.7    16       2.7      3.7     4.6      5.9
IFAD loan/grant        0.2      0.9    19       3.2      4.4     5.4      6.9
Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report              No. 6886-MAI
MaMs                IBRD No. 20152
IBRD No. 20608



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Project, for which an IDA credit of US$5.9 million and an
IPAD loan and grant of US$6.9 milli-n is proposed, aims at improving the
efficiency of the credit system for smallholders and forms part of the
continuing IDA/IFAD assistance to the National Rural Development Program
(NRDP). The proposed Project was identified during the negotiations for
the IDA financed Extension and Planning Support project (Cr. 1626-MAI). In
parallel, because of an interest in providing further credit assistance to
smallholders, IFAD fielded a reconnaissance mission to Malawi in 1985 to
examine the possibilities for improving the orientation and efficiency of
credit services in Malawi, in particular through support of the expansion
of the farmers' club movement. Or the basis of the IAD's reconnaissance
report, an agreement between IDA and IFAD to jointly finance the Project
was reached in April, 1986. Following a request from the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) for IDA/IFAD assistance, a joint IDA/IFAD mission visited
Malawi in June 1986 :o initiate preparation. A second mission during
September-October 1986 finalized the preparation. The Project was
appraised by a joint IDA/IFAD mission in March 1987.
B. Sectoral Background
Economic Setting
1.02     Malawi's first decade and a half since independence in 1964
witnessed remarkable growth and structural transformation. Total GDP more
than doubled, growing at an average rate of 6% or 3% in per capita terms.
The source of most of this growth was in agriculture, however, the
manufacturing sector also dev6loped gradually based on agro-processing and
import substitution of simple manufactures. Investment rose from 9% of GDP
at independence to 27% in 1979, financed by increased domestic savings and
rising foreign capital inflows. However in 1978, Malawi's economic picture
began to cloud beginning with an acute balance of payments disequilibrium.
The current account deficit rose from a level of 8% of GDP in the mid 1970s
to 20% in 1978/79. This change was due to a combination of external
shocks, delayed policy responses, and the intensification of internal
structural imbalances. On the external front, the terms of trade
deteriorated by 30% between 1978 and 1981, due to falling international
prices for export commodities, soaring oil prices, and most of all, a
gradual disruption of external transport routes through Mozambique. In
addition, a drought in 1980/81 led to reduced agricultural exports and made
it necessary to import maize. On the domestic front, these external shocks
were perceived as transitory and as a result, there was a failure to
curtail expenditures, and considerable external borrowing was undertaken,
mostly on commercial terms. Thus, the public sector deficit reached 15% of
GDP in 1980/81. These shocks exposed some underlying weaknesses in the
structure of Malawi's econc,my -- lack of export diversification, slow
growth in smallholder agriculture and import dependence in the industrial



-2-
and energy sectors. Shortcomings in economic management also emerged,
including problems of agricultural pricing, reliance on industrial price
controls, weaknesses in key parastatals and quasi-public institutions, and
inadequate budgetary planning and implementation. As a result of all these
factors, GDP contracted by 6% in 1980/81.
1.03      Starting in 1981, the Government launched a broad-based
structural adjustment effort geared to restoring macro-economic stability
and removing structural constraints. This program was supported by three
GALs and successive stand-by operations with the IMF. Additionally,
financial viability was achieved through external debt rescheduling in
1982/83. Key elements of this program are: (a) adequate agricultural
producer prices to encourage agricultural production and diversification;
(b) restructuring of certain parastatals; (c) flexible management of
exchange and interest rates; (d) removal of price controls, subsidies, and
other distortions; (e) improved resource mobilization and expenditure
allocation in the public sector; and (f) Introduction of a multi-channel
marketing system for most agricultural commodities. In the period 1982-85,
despite the progressive disruption and final closure of direct rail links
to Mozambique ports, Malawi managed to achieve progress ir. reducing the
domestic and external financial imbalances while resuming GDP growth at an
annual rate of 3.8%. But this progress was short-lived. In 1986, the
external political situation led to increased security related expenditures
which contributed to a rise in the public sector deficit from 9% of GDP in
1982-85 to 13% in 1986. Moreover, debt service increased from 38% in 1985
to 49% in 1986 due to the expiration of the grace period on debt
rescheduled in 1982/83. In addition, an expansive budgetary policy was
pursued which led to the worst overall balance of payments deficit in the
last four years. As a result, not only did Malawi exhaust its
international reserves, but it also, for the first time, accumulated
external arrears of 6% of GDP.
1.04      It is believed that the recent setbacks are temporary and that
with the continued implementation of the Government's adjustment efforts,
growth of per capita income can resume and financial equilibrium can be
restored. Improvement in the future performance of the economy will be
heavily dependent upon the elimination of excessive budgetary deficits and
continued improvements in production incentives, especially for the
industrial sector. The restoration of traditional rail links to the sea
and the development of alternative low-cost routes are also important to
hasten economic recovery. The capacity of the farming community to
intensify and d.versify its agricultural production is also a critical
determinant of future economic performan_Ce. In many areas, little arable
land remains uncultivated and thus productivity of both food and cash crops
will have to be greatly improved. This increased productivity w'll require
the development and use of appropriate technology, the timely availability
and an adequate supply of agricultural inputs, and credit to facilitate the
adoption of improved technologies. The proposed Project would complement
these efforts by improving smallholder credit services.



-3-
The Agricultural Sector
1.05      Malawi, a small landlocked country, is heavily dependent on
agriculture. It has a total land area of approximately 94,300 km2, of
which 36,200 km2 is generally defined as arable. The agricultural sector
supports about 85% of the population (oter 7 million people), and in 1986
accounted for 37% of total GDP and 91% of all exports. Major exports
include tobacco (54% of total exports), tea (16%) and sugar (9%). Over the
years, the country has managed to maintain self-sufficiency in food
production largely through an expansion in the area cultivated.
1.06      Agriculture in Malawi is characterized by two distinct subsectors
which are defined by the tenure system. Smallholders cultivate traditional
tenured or customary lands while estate cultivation takes place on freehold
or leasehold lands. The crops grown in each subsector are regulated, and
the farmers in these two subsectors have different access to markets,
inputs, credit facilities, and extension services. Smallholder cultivation
is dominated by the subsistence production of low yielding varieties of
maize, the major staple food crop. Other smallholder crops include hybrid
maize, pulses, cassava, fire-cured and sun/air-cured tobacco, cotton,
gro-idnuts, and rice. Smallholder agriculture, as a whole, accounts for
about 80% of total agricultural GDP. The main estate crops are burley
tobacco, flue-cured tobacco, tea, and sugar.
Performance Trends
1.07      Performance in the agricultural sector has been variable.  In the
1970s, growth rates were impressive, particularly for the estate sector
which achieved real rates of growth of about 10% p.a. The smallholder
sector also grew at a respectable annual rate of 4%. These favorable rates
of growth were due in part to the high commodity prices prevailing at the
time of the Rhodesia tobacco embargo,. Growth rates have been more modest
in the 1980s. Between 1982 and 1986, growth in the estate sector ran at
only about 1.5% p.a., while the rate for the smallholder sector was about
2.9%. Growth rates for both sectors have been stagnant in the last two
years. Worsening terms of trade for Malawi's major exports, sharply higher
transport costs, and poor weather help explain agriculture's recent poor
performance.
The Smallholder Subsector
1.98      Over 80% of the land in Malawi is held under customary tenure by
some 1.3 million smallholder farm families who produce about 85% of the
country's food supply. The majority of these smallholders are subsistence
cultivators with very low cash income levels. The average income of a
smallholder farm family in 1984/85 was estimated at less than MK300
(US$130), of which about 80% was from crops and livestock and 20% from
off-farm activity.
1.09      Maize is the dominant smallholder crop and is cultivated on
three-fourths of the cropped land. However, mixed farming with an emphasis
on crop production characterizes the subsector. The average farm size is
about 1.1 ha; 55% of the farms are less than I ha each and 95% art less
than 3 ha (Annex 1, Table 1). Farm families with the smallest average



- 4 -
holdings produce maize and some roots; those with relatively larger
holdings oroduce cereals, mainly maize, groundnuts, and roots, and produce
for the market in addition to home consumption requirements. While soils
are relatively fertile, erosion is becoming a serious problem in densely
populated areas,
1.10      Smallholder production is derived almost entirely from family
labor. Although labor is not a constraint for most farmers, labor
shortages do occur during land preparation and harvesting periods on the
relatively larger holdings. Technology is very rudimentary and land
management is generally poor. Hand shelling and pounding of maize and
groundnuts, which are very time-consuming, are the predominant methods of
processing. Only 5% of the cultivated land is ploughed, using oxen and
only 7% ridged. Ownership of farm equipment is limited to simple hand
tools such as hoes, ploughn, ridgers, and ox carts. Very few farms have
adequate storage facilities, and significant post-harvest losses occur. A
majority of farm families rent transport; about one-fifth of them use their
own oxen for transport.
DeveloDment Constraints in the Smallholder Subsector
1.11      The performance of smallholder agriculture in Malawi has been
affected by a variety of constraints. Limited land for expanding the area
under cultivation and mounting population pressure are causing increased
fragmentation of holdings and encroachment onto marginal or steeply sloped
lands, The National Sample Surveys of Agriculture indicate that the
average land holding in the smallholder subsector declined from 1.54 ha in
1968/69 to 1.1 ha in 1986. Given such land constraints, most future
increases in the production of food and export crops will have to come from
more intensive and productive use of existing land resources.  Productivity
in the smallholder subsector is well below its technical potential.
Constraints to increase smallholder productivity over the past few years
have included: (a) a policy which prohibite smallholder production of
certain high-value export crops; (b) until 1984, poor price incentives for
crops other than maize; (c) a general lack of appropriate technology for
smallholders, including absence of locality-specific technical
recommendations for crops; (d) inadequate and inflexible allocation of
credit resources; and (e) the lack of effective links between research and
extension,
1.12      Another serious constra4nt is the increased cost of external
transport. Being landlocked, Malawi is dependent upon neighboring
countries for sea access and commerce with its trading partners.
Traditionally, access was provided by road and rail links with Mozambican
ports, but operational problems and insurgency have forced the use of
longer and more costly routes through South Africa and Tanzania adding as
much as 50% to external transport costs.
1e13      The Government's ability to stimulate increased agricultural
productivity is severely constrained by major lnstitutional weaknesses. Of
particular concern are human resource constraints, especially with respect
to mid-level professionals, an over-reliance and ineffective use of
technical assistance, and rigid career structures. There is also
inadequate reliance on the private sector to provide supporting services to
agriculture because of a basic mistrust of the market mechanism and an
over-emphasis on Government control and regulation.



Government Objectives and Strategy for Smallholder Agriculture
1.14      The Government is working to provide a growth climate for both
estate and smallholder production in support of four basic objectives
including: (a) maintenance of self-sufficiency in food staples; (b)
diversification of production; (c) expansion of agricultural exports; and
(d) improvements in rural incomes. The Government's strategy for achieving
these objectives involves two basic elemente - direct investment and
instittutional strengthening in support of productivity enhancing activities
in the smallholder subsector and creatioz. of a policy environment conducive
to agricultural growth and development. The emphasis on stimulating a
sustained rise in productivity stems from the lack of arable land available
for expanded cultivation in the smallholder subsector and the need to
compensate for the very high and increasing cost of external transport.
1.15      In formulating agricultural policy, the Government has placed a
great deal of emphasis on agricultural pricing and 6ubsidies. Farmgate
prices of smallholder crops are set annually by the Governmunt, on
recommendations of a representative committee, which takes into account
border prices and returns to labor and land. In recent years, the official
prices for export crops have moved towa:ds the appropriate export parity
prices. The maize producer price has been set at tne level needed to
assure self-sufficiency. Smallholders have been remarkably responsive to
price changes, as was demonstrated by the sharp increase in maize
production and resulting surplus in 1982/83 following an increase in the
price for maize, and the recent switch back to groundnuts from maize, again
in response to changing relative prices. The smallholders' main input,
fertili_er, has been subsidized with the main element of the subsidy (the
increased cost of transport on non-Mozambican routes) now be4ng absorbed by
the Government. In 1986, the Government began a four-year program
supported by USAID to phase out this subsidy and is encouraglag the
increased use of high analysis fertilizers to contain nutrient cost
increases.
1.16      The major institution in charge of the Government's agricultural
strategy and policy formulation is the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). MOA
also oversees the provision of services to smallholders through the NRDP
and provides general direction to the agricultural parastatals and crop
authorities. MOA is headed by a Principal secretary (PS), and is organized
into five units, viz. the Departments of Agriculture, Agricultural
Research, Animal Health and Industry, Planning, and General
Administration. The managers of the agricultural development division
report to the PS through the Controller of Agricultural Services (NRDP),
one of three senior officials under the PS (Chart 1). Another institution
concerned with agricultural policy is the Food Security Unit of the Office
of the President and Cabinet which was recently established as part of the
Government's structural adjustment effort. The Unit will be responsible
for assessing the nutritional impact of the Government's economic and
agricultural policies and formulating Government interventions designed to
assure national food security, including the management of the Strategic
Grain Reserve.



- 6 -
1,17      National Rural Development Program (NRDP),  Improvements in
smallholder productivity are being sought through the National Rural
Development Program. NRDP was formulated in 1978 to refocus the
Government's rural development effort, which up to the mid-1970s was based
on intensive and expensive multi-component rural development projects.  The
NUDP is intended to spread agricultural development over the entire country
by less intensive and costly means. It is specifically designed to
increase smallholder productivity through the provision of agricultural
inputs, and to increase the scope and efficiency of extension, marketing
and credit services. It also focuses on soil conservation, watershed
management and afforestation. Under NRDP, Malawi is divided into eight
ecologically similar Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs), which
provide management, technical support and credit facilities. The ADDs are
further divided into 30 Rural Developmenz Projects (RDPs), of which 26 are
donor funded. Finally, the RDPs are sub-divided into 173 ecological or
extension planning areas (EPAs), each with 6,000 to 9,000 farm families.
About 80% of all smallholder families now live in areas served by the NRDP.
1.18      The implementation record of the NRDP shows mixed results.  NRDP
targets for infrastructural development have usually been met and in some
cases exceeded and many farm families have benefitted from improved roads,
water supplies, market centers, and training facilities. However, the
production record of NRDP is less encouraging w[th appraisal targets often
not met. Where production data are available, they reveal that yields were
satisfactory where farmers adopted the recommended packages. However, the
uptake of input packages has been generally below that projected during
appraisal. It appears that the problems of inappropriate technological
packages, inadequate and inflexible allocation cf credit, and the lack of
effective links between research and extension have blunted the impact of
the NRDPo In view of these problems, the Government has placed increased
emphasis on improving the national agricultural research, extension and
credit systems that operate in conjtunction with the NRDPe
1.19      The credit system is the focus of this project and is covered in
detail in Chapter Two, Agricultural research Is carried out by a
department within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), by the University of
Malawi and by two commodity-specific organizations for tea and tobacco.
Research programs are organized on a crop or commodity basis. Over the
years the results of these programs have often been less than satisfactory
largely because of the lack of links between the commodity programs and
extension staff. Thus the problems and concerns of the smallholder have
not been adequately considered in developing new technological packages.
In recognition of this problem the Government in 1985 launched a National
Research Project with financing from the IDA and USAID.
1.20      Agricultural extension is carried out within NRDP and is under
the overall guidance of the Department of Agriculture in MOAe It is
decentralized at the field level under the eight ADDs. Extension is
organized on a block extension basis, with a field extension worker in
charge of five to eight blocks. Field extension workers are the key
contacts with farmers. Apart from communicating extension messages,
extension workers have also been involved in credit-related activities such
as preparation of applications and collections. The extension service is
adequately staffed, in numbers, with some 2,600 workers operating with an



average ratio of one extension worker to 750 farmers. The extension staff
is supported by about 500 subject matter specialists. To become more
effective, the extension services requires better technical packages
including area-specific recommendations, improved extension methodology,
and links with research services. In 1985, the Bank financed an
Agricultural Extension and Planning Support project, with the objective of
addressing the above deficiencies.
1.21      On agricultural marketing, the major buyer and seller of
smallholder crops is the Government-owned Agricultural Development and
Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), a statutory corporation which is also
engaged in the distribution of production inputs, and farm implements.
ADMARC has a legal monopoly to purchase smallholder tobacco (sun-air and
fire-cured) and cotton but also a de fasto monopoly in the procurement and
sale of maize. Until the 1980s, ADMARC was regarded as one of the few
successful parastatals in the region. However, since 1980, ADMARC has
faced increasing management, financing and marketing problems with
continuing trade losses and generally poor liquidity and a consequent
inability to purchase the major crops. These problems are due, in part, to
the Government's panterritorial pricing policy, consumer subsidies, high
transport costs, generally poor management and high operating expenses
(including excessive expenditures on projects outside its primary marketing
responsibility).
1.22      In view of ADMARC's growing difficulties, the Government, as part
of itt structural adjustment program, has taken steps to improve ADMARC's
operations and financial situation. These measures include curtailing
ADMARC's non-marketing activities, closing unprofitable markets, changing
the organization and management struccure, and reducing staff. The
Government is also fostering the development of a multi-channel marketing
system by allowing private sector entities to participate in smallholder
crop marketing. The first steps in this direction have been taken by a
recent Government announcement Inviting applications for trade licenses.
The initial response to the announcement has been er.ouraging with
considerable private marketing taking place, particularly in the Southern
Region. Private entry into the smallholder market could mean an eventual
reduction in the marketing operations of ADMARC. However, despite the
encouraging start, any significant participation of the private sector is
likely to be a long-term process, mainly because of a 'Lack of indigenous
entrepreneurs in this field.
Bank, IFAD, and Other Donors' Strategies and Assistance
1.23      The proposed Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project, besides
providing institutional support for imprcving the efficiency of the credit
system in Malawi, seeks to diversify and increase agricultural production
by helping to meet the unsatisfied demand for credit. The Bank development
strategy in Malawi has evolved over the years in support of the
Government's efforts to stimulate increased productivity, develop a more
diversified agricultural base, promote crop exports, and improve rural
incomes. The Bank, through its lending and sector work, supports the
Government's strategy of strengthening key national agricultural
institutions, thereby improving its capability for agricultural planning,
policy analysis, and program implementationa Better resource allocation



- 8 -
and human resource development are important ingredients in recent
operations supported by the Bank. The proposed Project would be an
essential complement to the on-going national projects and planned
activities in the agricultural sector.
1.24      The Bank has provided 14 credits and 2 loans totalling US$173.95
million for agricultural development in Malawi. Of this amount, US$120.35
million (70%), have been exclusively in support of the smallholder sub-
sector. The projects that were financed included eight integrated
agricultural programs and three national rural development programs. The
Bank has also provided for forestry development and for an Industrial and
Agricultural Credit project which includes a line of credit of US$4.5
million to finance estate subsector diversification. Three IFC operations,
involving a total of US$17.9 million, have assisted agriculture-related
industries. In response to the Government's recent emphasis on
strengthening the national institutions that provide services to small-
holders through NRDP, the Bank has financed two national projects -- the
Natior,al Researeh project (Cr. 1549-MAI) and the Agricultural Extension and
Planning Support project (Cr. 1629-MAI). The proposed Project would
support this national effort. The impact of the projects and reasons for
the evolution of the lending strategy have already been discussed in para
1.18.
1.25      The Bank is also assisting the Government in improving
agricultural policy formulation through a series of three structural
adjustment credits to Malawi, in each of which agriculture has been a major
focus. Policy improvements under the structural adjustment program include
agreement on the importance of price as an incentive for smallholder
production (a pricing methodology was adopted); actual increases in
producer prices, as agreed; and the allocation of a larger share of the
budget to MOA. Efforts under the current program focus on refining the
pri cing policy, reducing the fertilizer subsidy and improving the
efficiency of crop marketing.
1.26      IFAD's strategy supports smallholder development both through
NRDP and support to national level institutions and servict.s such as input
supplies and credit. However, IFAD aims specifically to identify the
groups most vulnerable to poverty, and malnutrition, and to orient its
support increasingly towards their needs. IFAD has financed three
projects: the two NRDP projects -- Dowa West Rural and Kasungu
Agricultural Development Projects (Cr. 70-MW and Ln. 158-MW) -- and the
Smallholder Fertilizer project (Ln. 120-MW, Grant 109-MW); loans extended
for these projects total US$40.3 million. Each of these projects has made
satisfactory progress with regard to most components. The Smallholder
Fertilizer project, through which a national system of fertilizer
procurement has been established, has been instrumental in providing an
improved mechanism for timely supply of fertilizer better oriented towards
the specific needs of smallholder3.
1.27      Other donors/bilaterals (ADB, CIDA, EDF, FRG, ODA, and SIDA), are
also actively involved in the development of agriculture in Malawi both
through NRDP and support to national level institutions and services, with
heavy investment in the livestock subsector. USAID, which is co-financing
the Research project with IDA, is also involved in policy dialogue with the



- 9 -
Government, with particular emphasis on the removal of fertilizer subsidies
and support for the Government's agricultural u'arketing reform. The U.K.,
the FRG, and Japan have also provided co-financing for the Government's
structural adjustment program*
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A. General
2.01      There is no specialized agricultural credit 4nstitution in
Malawi. The main financial institutions providing credit to commercial
(estate) farmers are the two commercial banks, the National Bank of Malawi
(NBM), and the Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM). Although the ownership of
both banks is indirectly controlled by Press Holdings and by GOM through
ADMARC and the Malawi Development Corporation (MDC), each operates as an
independent institution. A feasibility study concerning the establishment
of a specialized financial institution to meet the medium- and long-term
credit needs of the estate subsector was carried out by consultants,
financed under the technical assistance component of SAL TI. It was
concluded that because of the high cost of establishment and operation,
creation of a new institution would not be justified.
2,02      The commercial banks lend primarily to tobacco estates and in
recent years, their agricultural loan portfolio has ranged between 35 and
40% (MK80 to 90 million) of their total lending operations. The Investment
and Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK) provides medium- and long-term
loans to agricultural estates and agro-processing enterprises, which at the
end of 1985 accounted for MK14 million, equivalent to 44% of INDEBANK's
portfolio.  INDEFUND, a subsidiary of INDEBANK, (p-oviding financing for
projects of medium size, from MK25,000 to MK100,000), which started
operations in 1982, also provides medium-term investment credit for
agricultural production and agro-processing. This credit amounted to MK1
million, or 30% of its portfolio, in 1986, SEDOM, the Small Enterprise
Development Organization of Malawi, was established in 1982 by GOM with the
assistance of EEC to promote investments by small entrepreneurs who could
not otherwise obtain financial assistance from commercial banks or other
institutions. SEDOM finances investments in agriculture, livestock
production, and small agro-industries. The credit extended for these
investments accounted for about 50% of its portfolio at the end of 1986
(470 loans totalling MKl.5 million). The effective interest rates
currently charged by the banks and other institutions mentioned above on
agricultural credits range between 15 and 16.5% p.a.
B. Smallholder Agricultural Credit
2.03      Malawi has one of the more successful formal smallholder
agricultural (seasonal) credit systems among developing countries. This
credit system is operated by MOA. Following the launching of agricultural
development projects in the late 1960s and the subsequent adoption of the
rural development programs (NRDP), NRDP has become the main vehicle for
providing institutional credit to the smallholder subsector. Provision of
credit is closely linked to agricultural extension. Donor-financed project
resources allocated to credit operations and designated for specific RDP
areas are channeled by MOF through MOA to credit fuads managed by ADDs,
which operate a decentralized credit system. Currently most of the credit
resources (over 80%) are administered under NRDPe



- 10 -
2.04      As of the end of September 1986, the consolidated balance of the
separate credit funds was about MK20.2 million (Annex 2, Table 1),
consisting of GOM capital contributions and accumulated net income. No
interest is paid to GOM on the capital funds, and administrative
expenditures of the credit delivery system are largely covered by funds
provided under RDP projects for Incremental operating expenses and by GOM
recurrent budgetary allocations. The principal sources of existing NRDP
credit funds are IDA (42%), IFAD (21%), and EDF (12%). Other donors
include ODA, AFDB, and KFW. In addition to the area-specific credit funds,
UNCDF provided about MK4.0 million which can be utilized for credit
operations throughout the NRDP system. These funds are allocated annually
by the credit section of MOA to unfunded or underfunded RDP areas.
Currently, additional funds amounting to MK20.0 million allocated for
incremental credit to smallholders under on-going rural development
projects have still to be withdrawn. This amount includes about MK8.3
million financed by IDA under the Agricultural Extens4on and Planning
Support project (Cr. 1626-MAI) for Mzuzu ADD and MK7.3 million from IFAD
for Kasungu ADD. Thus, existing and o,stimated committed hut undisbursed
resources of ADD Credit Funds amounted to MK44.2 million as of September
30, 1986 (Annex 2, Table 2).
2.05      The NRDP funds account for over 90% of the credit channeled to
smallholders. The ba'lance is provided through commodity-specific
development authorities, such as the Smallholders Coffee Authority (SCA)
established in 1981, the Smallholders Tea Authority (STA), established in
1967, and the Kasungu Flue-Cured Tobacco Authority (KFCTA) established in
1968. These statutory crop authorities provide technical advice, credit
for inputs and investments, and crop marketing services to their members.
The Settlement Schemes Fund (SSF) set up by GOM was originally intended for
Malawi Young Pioneer Settlement Scliemes to provide credit to smallholders.
This activity has now been incorpo-ated into the NRDP system and in
1986/87, only Salima ADD disbursed SSF loans of about MK30,000 (US$13,000).
2.06      Smallholders do not receive credit from commercial banks and
contact with the banking system is limited to savings accounts, mainly in
thp Post Office Savings Bank and, to a lesser extent, through static and
mobile agencies of commercial banks. Very few smallholders have received
short-term loans from credit and savings cooperatives affiliated with
MUSCCO (para 2,22). Some smallholder farmers have rece4ved credits from
SEDOM for dairy and poultry production and for small food-processing
enterprises.
Flow of Credit Funds
2.07      Currently, funds under RDPs and UNCDF are accounted for in
different ways. Following receipt from the donors, RDP funds are disbursed
through MOA to the credit funds under the individual ADDs. The ADD credit
account works as a revolving fund for payments made to ADMARC and other
suppliers for inputs given to farmers on credit. Repayments from farmers
are made directly to the account, with interest retained in the ADD
account. UNCDF resources are allocated annually to the ADDs from a Central
Credit Fund (Account 228 with the Reserve Bank of Malawi) by MOAe Credit
allocation is based on requests submitted by ADDs for unfunded RDPs.
Repayments are made directly by the ADDs or through ADMARC to the Central



- 11 -
Credit Fund. There i3 some flexibility in the use of UNCDF funds as these
are allocated annually by MOA. The Central Credit Fund was established by
MOA with the intention that all credit be operated on this basis. Donors,
however, have preferred to keep their funds separate. In the case of RDP
funds, which are area-specific, there is little flexibility, although some
lending among ADDs has been recorded (a flat rate of 5% is charged for
these funds). The system, however, is implemented only on an ad hoc basis
among ADDs.
Credit Disbursement and Repayment
2.08      The procedure for disbursing credit and collecting repayments
within the existing NRDP program is given in the National Credit Manual.
The main features for disbursement and repayment are:
(a)  Disbursements.  Credit requests are prepared by the farmers'
club with assistance from the credit and extension staff.
Inputs and implements are procured by ADMARC and distributed
through ADMARC's network of markets. Seasonal inputs are
distributed to club chairmen and village headmen on behalf
of the members. The borrowers' lists, which are prepared by
EPA credit sta!f, are the basis for preparing the Repayment
Ledger.
(b) Subloan Repayments. The repayment of subloans is the
responsibility of the club officials, with assistance from
credit staff. Club members repay loans to credit assistants
who record payments, issue receipts and deposit amounts
recorded with ADMARC or with commercial bank branches.
2.09      Loan Default Policy.  Clubs are required to repay their seasonal
loans by December 1. A surc 'arge at a flat rate of 10% is applied to
defaulters after the above date. If a club member fails to repay, the
policy is to exclude all members of the club from credit the following
year, unless there are mitigating circumstances (defined as agro-economic
or environmental factors beyond the control of the farmers). In such
cases, arrears on seasonal loans are rescheduled and clubs continue to be
eligible for new borrowing.
Institutional Framework
2.10      There are four main organizational units involved in the NRDP
credit system:
(a)  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), through the credit
section in the Department of Agriculture (Chart 1). The
credit section is headed by a Senior Agricultural Officer
(credit), who reports directly to the Principal Agricultural
Officer in charge of extension and training. He is assisted
by a Chief Technical Officer. This is a coordinating unit
whose functions include: (i) issuing of operational
guidelines and periodic updating of the MOA Credit Manual;
(ii) consolidating estimates of input requirements prepared
by ADDs and liaising with ADMARC and the Fertilizer



- 12 -
Revolving Fund; (iii) allocating UNCDF resources (para
2.04), to ADDs for unfunded areas: (iv) compiling periodic
consolidated reports on ADDs' credit activities; and (v)
participating in training activities for field credit
staff, Because the credit section Is staffed by only two
officers, its present functions are rather limited. A
National (Smallholder) Credit Committee consisting of senior
officials of MOA headquarters and the ADD Program Managers
advises the Principal Secretary of MOA on matters related to
credit policies and procedures. To date, this committee has
played a minor role in guiding and overseeing the NRDP
credit system.
(b)  Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs).  Credit
operations are fully decentralized and managed ty ADDs,
which administer their credit funds, maintain separate non-
interest bearing accounts in the Reserve Barlv of Malawi
(RBM) and in commercial banks, kepp sub-loan accounts and
prepare annual balance sheets and financial statements for
each credit fund. Audits of ADD accounts are carried out by
the Auditor General of GOM. Each ADD has a chief credit
officer (PO) and credit accounting staff reporting to the
ADD Program Manager, credit supervisors (TO) at the RDP
level, and field credit assistants (CA) at the EPAs (para
1.17). Accounts are kept by the credit staff within the
ADDs' accounting unit. Credit assistants at EPA are
responsible for assisting clubs and individual borrowers in
preparation of loan applications, processing of loans,
distribution of credit inputs, supervision and loan
collection.
(c) ADMARC is responsible for the supply and distribution of
inputs at market points and for the purchase of crops from
smallholders (para 1.21). Fertilizer as the major input
used bv smallholders is centrally procured by the Fertilizer
Revolving Fund unit and distributed through ADMARC which
also does the invoicing for the Fertilizer Fund.
(d) Farmers' Clubs (para 2.16) play an important role In the
preparatIon of loan applications for seasonal credit, the
distribution of inputs among their members, and the timely
repayment of seasonal credits.
Ferformance of NRDP Credit
2.11      ADD-managed seasonal credit operations started in 1968/69,
lending MK80,000 to 650 smallholders.  Ten years later in 1978/79, the
volume of credit reached MK2.5 million, benefitting about 75,000
borrowers. The volume of seasonal credit has grown significantly since
1980/81, as substantial amounts of RDP donor funds have become available
and lending to individual borrowers has been discouraged in favor of
providing seasonal credits through farmers' clubs or credit groups. The
following table shows the increase in volume of lending during the last
four years:



- 13 -
Seasonal Credits - 1982/83 to 1985/86
Amount       Growth    No. of        No. of    Average Loan/
Year       MK million      Index       Clubs    Borrowers   Borrower - MK
1982/83        7.8           100       6,654       156,700          50
1983/84       10.5           135       7,191       180,300          58
1984/85       14.5           186       8,148       211,700          68
1985/86       17.4           223       8,225       207,500           84
2.12      Despite the substantial rise in seasonal credit uptake, only
about 16% of the smallholders had obtained credit as of the 1985/86
season. However, considerable differences exist among the ADDs both in
regard to the amount of credit and the percentage of farmers reached (Annex
2, Table 3).  In general, the southern ADDs ((Liwonde, Blantyre and Ngabu)
reacn a lower percentage of farmers (7% compared to 16% nationally).  In
addition, the average loan amount is smaller -- MK58 per beneficiary --
compared with the national average of MK84.  The main reasons for these
differences are attributed to lack of funds in some RDPs and poor
management at certain ADDs. Other reasons are: (i) holding sizes: in
Blantyre and Liwonde, average farm sizes are 0.88 and 0.93 ha respectively,
compared to the national average of 1.14 ha; (ii) cropping patterns: in
Ngabu ADD, maize is less important, being grown on 27% of the land
(compared to 58% nationally), credit has not been made available for
sorghum/millet (over 40% of the planted area), and cotton packages are
smaller; (iii) alternative off-farm employment opportunities exist in this
area, particularly in the Blantyre-Limbe area (tea estates) in Lake Chilwa
and the Lower Shire (fisheries); and (iv) agriculture is considered a
higher risk in Ngabu ADD where rainfall is low (Annex 2, Table 3).
2.13      Kasungu ADD registered significant increases during the last four
years, both in the formation of clubs (from 700 to 2,050) and in the number
of credit recipients (from 23,000 to 62,000). Higher performance is
attributed not only to IFAD support but also to better ADD management and
the relatively larger farm size compared to the national average. In the
remaining ADDs, the number of credit recipients varied only slightly,
although the amount of credit pe!r beneficiary increased, mainly as a result
of price escalation. The main reasons for this are: (i) a decrease in the
maize-to-fertilizer price ratio; (ii) a change in cropping patterns with a
decrease in the area under maize and an increase in the groundnut areas,
which require less purchased inputs; (iii) the inappropriateness of current
package size to many farmers; (iv) the exclusion from clubs of smaller
farmers, considered less likely to repay; and (v) the limited access of
smaller farmers to extension and other services; only 15% of farmers with
holdings of less than 1 ha had contact with the extension service in
1984/85, compared to 36% of farmers with over one ha.



- 14 -
2.14      There has been a setback in smallholder credit uptake in the
1986/87 crop season (Annex 2, Table 4).   While it was estimated that
lending programs would total about MK25 million, data up to January 31,
1987 indicate that total credit disbursed amounted to only MK16.5 million
(7,800 clubs comprising 203,000 borrowers). This shortfall in credit
uptake is attributed to (i) temporary disruptions of the marketing system
due to ADMARC's financial difficulties; this resulted in slower than
anticipated repayments of the prevlius year's seasonal credits, and
rendered many clubs ineligible to borrow in 1986/87; (ii) a decrease in
area planted with hybrid maize because of low returns (producer prices for
maize have not been increased for the last 4 years); and (iii) a reduction
in fertilizer subsidy coupled with lower than expected uptake of high-
analysis fertilizer.
2.15      Seasonal credit for farm inputs is provided in kind on the basis
of packages recommended by the extension service for a particular crop.
The credit was originally provided only for hybrid maize, but now the range
of crops has widened and includes local and composite maize, groundnuts,
tobacco, and cotton, as well as packages containing only fertilizer or
agricultural chemicals. The size of packages is usually based on a land
unit of 0.4 ha; however, in light of the high demand for smaller packages
and the move towards using high-analysis fertilizer, efforts are currently
underway to prepare smaller packages for smallholders. Up to 1985/86,
fertilizer accounted for about 75% of total credit, seeds (hybrid maize,
groundnuts, rice and wheat) for a further 15%, and agro-chemicals for the
remaining 10%,
2.16      Farmers' Clubs.  With the encouragement of MOA and donors under
the NRDP, a vigorous farmers' club movement has developed mainly from grass
roots initiatives, and this is now the main channel by which the extension
effor. and seasonal credit reach the smallholder sub-sector. Clubs are
voluntary farmers' associations without legal status. They hold monthly
meetings, and place great emphasis on communal activities; some have club
houses, maize storage sheds built through self-help schemes, and gardens
which generate some income for the club. MOA provides a limited amount of
training for club officials in administration, basic accounting practices
and procedures for obtaining credit. However, these training activities
need to be considerably strengthened to ensure sustainability of the club
movement as a vehicle for development of the smallholder sector. Between
1981 and 1986, the number of clubs has increased from 6,000 to 8,200 with
about 210,000 borrowing members (16% are women). The average number of
members is 24. Clubs play an important role in the preparation of seasonal
credit applications, distribution of inputs and the timely repayment of
credit. Seasonal credit is mutually guaranteet by borrowing members which
has resulted in higher repayment rates than woulJ have existed through
lending to individual farmers. Lending through clubs has also: (I) lowered
administration costs; (ii) removed the need for collateral; and (iii)
increased access of smallholders to credit. While the NRDP is now adopting
a more widely used block extension system, the momentum of the club
movement continues and offers a strong base for higher level development
activities, including the promotion of rural savings.



- 15 -
2e17       Medium-term Credit.  In contrast to seasonal credit, the uptake
of medium-term credit has been generally below expectation. The total
number of individual beneficiaries of official medium-term loans through
March 1986 was only 10,000 farmers with the total value of loans amounting
to about MK1.5 million. Data for the 1986/87 season indicate that MKI.O
million was allocated for medium-term credit, of which only MKO.6 million
was disbursed. Term-loans are given in kind to individual borrowers (not
through groups or farmers' clubs) for periods ranging from 2 to 7 years.
Balance of loans outstanding to-date is about MK500,000. On-farm
investments financed include farm-carts, ridgers, ploughs, other farm
implements, sprayers, work-oxen, dairy cows and small poultry units. In
addition, some non-seasonal credit for periods of 5-6 months is provided to
farmers for the purchase of stallfeeders, largely supplied by the
Department of Animal Health (DAH). Steers are fed on crop residues and
concentrates and fattened cattle are sold to the Cold Storage Company.
While there is a need for medium-term credit, limited supply of certain
items and the high costs have reduced demand. In addition, credit staff
have not put significant emphasis on medium-term credit. This
reflects: (i) the uncertainty about the procedures; (ii) the high
prominence given to seasonal credit by senior staff in the ADD and the MOA;
(iii) the heavy demand for seasonal credit which limits the time available
for processing medium-term credit; and (iv) given the limited financial
resources, the senior staff avoid tying the resources to medium-term
credit. The other reasons for the limited amount of term credit issued
are: (i) holding sizes are generally too small to justify purchase of items
such as farm carts and ploughs; and (ii) technology of some of the
investment items available is inappropriate to smaller farmers.
2.18      Interest Rates,  A flat finance charge of 10% is levied on
seasonal credits to farmers' clubs. As repayment periods average nine
months, this flat charge is equivalent to an effective annual rate of 13.3%
interest. Seasonal credits are repayable by September 30, and a surcharge
of 10% is imposed on arrears as from December 1 each year. To discourage
seasonal credits to individual borrowers, MOA recently raised the flat
finance charge for such credits from 15% to 20%. Medium-term loans and
non-seasonal credits, mentioned above, currently bear interest of 10% p.a.
A flat charge of 10% is levied annually on installments of principal and
interest in arrears. The rate of inflation in Malawi is currently
estimated at 15% p.a. Interest rates chargeable to smallholders will be
raised starting with the next lending season (October 1, 1987) from 13.3%
to 16.5% p.a. for seasonal ctdit and from 10% to 15% p.', for medium-term
credit.
2.19      Loan Recovery.  Recovery performance of seasonal credit has been
excellent. From 1968/69 to 1984/85, the cumulative amount of seasonal
credit including finance charges was MK63.4 of which 97.4% has been
credit including finance charges was MK63.4 of which 97.4% has been had
been recovered. Recovery of term-loans has been less satisfactory and
because of deficient loan monitoring and reporting procedures, data are
less readily available.  It is estimated that 20% to 25% of the amounts due
is in arrears.   MOA is now taking measures to improve monitoring and
accounting procedures for term-loans.



- 16 -
2.20      Credit Staff.  As of October 1, 1986, 439 credit staff were
employed by the credit system (Annex 2, Table 5). About 300 credit
assistants were at the operational (EPA) level, 56 credit officers IT
supervisory positions at RDPs and ADDs, and 83 accountants at ADDs anid in
some RDPs.  In the past, positions for credit staff were usually created at
the time of appraisal of RDP projects by various donors and these positions
were filled and maintained irrespective of the actual volume of credit
issued and the number of loans serviced. This approachi has resulted in
many of the ADDs being grossly overstaffed, particularly at thie EPA level.
Thus, in 1985/86, 4 ADDs handling 20% of the total volume of cree
employed 45%. of all credit staff. MOA headquarters has not to this point
focussed on the establishment of pol'cy guidelines regatding staffing norms
for credit staff nor on the administrative costs of the credit delivery
system. The extension staff also spend time in administering credit, as
there Is a close link between credit and extension. However, the extension
staff's involvement in credit should be confined to encouraging the
establishment of new clubs and advising on input packages.
2.21      Cost of the Credit System.  The current administrative
expenditures of the system at all levels -- MOA, ADD, RDP, and EPA - have
been estimated at MKI.4 million, equivalent to about 8.5% of the volume of
credit in 1986/87. This estimate includes salaries and allowances of all
credit staff, and other recurrent expenditures (excluding office
accommodation and office support services provided by ADDs). As the
present staffing positions are very uneven among the different ADDs (para
2.40), costs vary widely, ranging between 3% in Kasungu ADD and 30% in
Ngabu ADD, The extension staff's time spent on credit matters has not been
included in the cost of the credit system.
2.22      Savings Mobilization.  Available literatlre does not provide
infor'.iation on the volume of savings by smallholders, the potential for
savings, or the portion of savings which is not monetary. The two
commercial banks, NBM and C3M, with 27 branches, 28 agencies, and 130
mobile branches locations, are the most popular savings institut4ons in the
country.  Time and savings deposits in the two banks amounted to about
MK230 million in 1985. The Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) with 269
branches and agencies is the most accessible for the rural population and
has over half a million savings accounts totalling MK65 million. In
addition, a number of insurance companies and the New Building Society play
some role in mobilizing savings, although not in the smallholder sector.
Fifty-six Cooperative Savings and Credit Societies, which operate under the
umbrella of the Malawi Union of Savings and Credit Cooperative (MUSCCO),
play a mInor role and have share deposits of only MKl10 million in about
14,000 accounts. Many societies are faced with loan delinquency and
management problems, and lack of adequate financial control. MUSCCO is
currently being supported by USAID is currently trying to upgrade MUSCO's
operations.
2.23      Interest rates on savings and time deposits are fixed by GOM
through the Reserve Bank of Malawi. Savings account, in POSE and the
commercial banks currently bear tax-exempt interest of 1075% pqa.  Rates
on time-deposits in commercial banks range between 9% (for 7-day call
deposits) and 15.75% (for time-deposits exceeding 36 months).



- 17 -
Constraints on the Credit System
2.24      While Malawi has one of the more successful credit systems for
smallholders, the absence of a national framework for systematic planning,
coordination, and monitoring of credit operations has led to imbalances and
inefficiencies in the use of scarce financial resources and in the
deployment of staff. The fragmentation of credit resources through
area-specific allocations, mainly through donor funding, has resulted in
some areas being inadequately funded. This, in turn, has caused imposition
of arbitrary credit ceilings and restrictions in the access of smallholders
to institutional credit. The uptake of investment credit and its recovery
have been unsatisfactory, partly due to administrative shortcomings. The
lack of cost accounting for administrative expenditures has resulted in
wide disparities among the ADDs in operational costs, and the need for
increased budgetary support. rTe setting of interest rates has not been
linked either to the cost of the credit delivery system or to the interest
rate structure set by RBM. Although data processing equipment is available
in most ADDs, only limited and unsuccessful attempts have been made by some
ADDs to computerize their credit operations.
2.25      In light of the above, there is a need for consolidation and
strengthening of the system, both financially and administratively, leading
towards increased access of smallholders to institutional credit, efficient
and flexible allocation and utilization of funds, accountability and cost-
effectiveness. These and other related issues would be addressed through
the Project.
The Near-Landless Rural Poor
2.26      At presealt, there is a proportion of the rural population which,
because of its near-landless condition, has remained outside the orbit of
the NRDP, without access to formal sources of credit. National statistics
in Malawi indicate that as of 1986 there were &bout 272,000 households with
landholding sizes below 0.5 ha and some 180,000 estate workers, excluding
unemployed persons with no land at all. The households with less than 0,5
ha can only produce 27% of their food requirement and the households with
0.5 ha to 0.99 ha (360,000) can only produce 75% of the family food
requirement. Development constraints outlined in para 2.12 indicate
reasons for limited access to land and the scope for off-farm employment
and income generation for this group is also very limited. The poorest are
faced with a shortage of capital and have no access to institutional
finance. Existing financial institutions in Malawi do not cater to these
groups for several reasons, including: (a) the lack of collateral; and (b)
preference for handling sizeable loans rather than smaller loans. In
addition, the procedures for for obtaining credit are too cumbersome for a
largely illiterate rural poor. Without alternative opportunities brought
about by specific development, it is unlikely that this target group's
poverty will decrease. Using the successful IFAD-financed Grameen Bank
P'roject (GB) in Bangladesh as a model, the proposed Project would include a
pilot operation to test opportunities of generating off-farm self-
employment for this target group by extending group credit facilities to
the target group.



- 18 -
2.27      The Grameen Bank began as a project whose objective was to design
dependable organizational structure through which the banking system could
extend credit to the landless poor witlout collateral. The project aimed
at testing the hypothesis that if finaiicial resources are made available to
the poor on reasonable terms and conditions, the poor would then be able to
generate productive self-employment. The pilot project, initiated in 1976,
and consisting of a financial organization with two branches evolved into a
formal project in November 1979. In 1982, with assistance from IFAD, the
Grameen Bank expanded its operations to 30 new branches in three
districts. Encouraged by its initial success, the Government transformed
it into a specialized credit institution for the rural poor in September
1983. The Bank now has an authorized capital of Taka 80 million (US$2.6
million), with paid up capital of Taka 30 million (US$1.0 million). In
1986, the bank had nearly 250 branches with membership of about 200,000
households, almost all of which are from the poor target group.
2.28      The success of the GB in Bangladesh is attributed to many
factors including: (a) group lending, where people of similar economic
circumstances form themselves into groups with some guidance and observed
by GB officials for discipline and sincerity; (b) borrower eligibility,
where members are required to follow all rules regarding payments, savings
deposits and attending weekly meetings; (c) provision for group loan
serving assistance; (d) pragmatic training practices; (e) constant loan
supervision; and (f) joint group ventures. Other equally important
features which have contributed to GB success include the availability of
college educated and highly motivated staff willing to take long term
assignments in remote branch areas, the presence of an inspirational
leadership provided by the University professor who developed the GB
approach and the borrowers themselves who while uneducated have reflected
many basic entrepreneural capabilities. The successful implementation of
the GB approach in Malawi, would to some extent depend on whether some of
the above features can be replicated.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Design
Project Objectives
3.01      The primary objective of the Project is to transform Malawi's
smallholder credit system into a better-managed, more efficient, low-cost
and financially viable national credit delivery system benefitting a
significantly greater number of smallholders than at present. To this end,
the Project's immediate goals are:
(a)  to consolidate the present area or project based programs
into a national smallholder credit system in MOA;
(b)  to increase flexibility in allocation of credit resources;
(c)  to strengthen the organization of the credit system and
improve the efficiency of policies and procedures for credit
planning and administration;



- 19 -
(d) to diversify and increase agricultural production by helping
to meet the unsatisfied demand for seasonal and medium-term
credit, and by increasing the number of smallholders,
especially women, benefitting from institutional credit;
(e) to initiate measures to increase the mobilization of rural
savings; and
(f) initiate a pilot operation to provide credit and foster
savings to the rural poor to finance off-farm
income-generating economic activities.
Project Design
3.02      The Project design has taken into full account other on-going
projects and programs bearing on credit and linkages between research,
extension, credit services, veterinary, and marketing. It assumes that
disbursed and committed credit funds provided by various donors would
continue to be available and that all the contractual obligations relating
to credit operations financed by international, bilateral, and donor
agencies would be fully met. The design also reflects the need to make
maximum use of the locally available manpower resources in operational
functions, and to provide only as much technical assistance as needed in
critical areas. While improving efficiency, the project would not only
keep total costs within limits, but would lessen Government's recurrent
budgetary allocations to the credit system* Furthermore, while
consolidating credit funds into a Central Fund for a more efficient and
equitable distribution of resources, the design has maintained the current
decentralized credit operation which has been operating satisfactorily.
3.03      The plan to upgrade and strengthen the Credit Section of MOA is
seen as a first step towards future establishment of an independent rural
credit (financial) institution. For the present, because of the high cost
of establishment and operation, creation of a new independent financial
institution would not be justified. While the creation of a rural
financial institution would have specific advantages, particularly in its
scope for promoting and mobilizing savings with a wider capital base, an
agriculturally-based smallholder hank would, face funding problems on
account of cash flow; smallholder farmers seek funds at the same season,
and surpluses to invest are all post-harvest. While savings may be
expected to 4ncrease generally in line with the growth of the sector GDP,
analysis suggests relatively small amounts of savings can currently be
generated from the smallholder subsector. Besides, these could be highly
seasonal and would be largely obtained at the expense of present post-
office savings. Other disadvantages of a smallh3lder bank would include
relatively low turnover, the small size of loans, and the need to maintain
close contact between the credit recipients and the NRDP-controlled staff.
The proposed system would have the capacity to extend credit services
broadly within the smallholder iector, reaching the poorer strata of
farmers, including women, as well as those who could benefit most from
development assistance.
B. Project Summary and Description
3.04      The Project, which would be Implemented over a period of seven
years, would comprise the following components:



- 20 -
(a) Provision of funds for financing:
(i)  on-farm requirements of inputs for a variety of crops
and livestock, on an incremental basis as at present,
but with a national coverage (i.e., without any
geographical limitations); and
(ii) financially and economically viable on-farm and
off-farm investments, through medium-term loans to
individuals as well as to groups.
(b) Institutional support for the upgrading and strengthening of
the Credit Section of the Agricultural Department of MOA
into a Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
(SACA), with departmental status. The newly created SACA
would have responsibility for management at a national level
of smallholder credit funds in the various projects. These
funds would be consolidated into a Central Smallholder
Credit Fund (SCF). The upgrading and strengthening would be
brought about through technical assistance, training, and
provision of the necessary equipment, office accommodations,
supplies, and vehicles.
(c) A pilot credit and savings scheme for rural poor on the
lines of the IFAD-financed Grameen Bank project in
Bangladesh.
C. Detailed Features
Agricultural Credit
3.05      In order to meet the unfulfilled demand for credit and increase
the participation of smallholder farmers, particularly women and those in
the lower strata of land holdings, the Project would finance subloans to
farmer clubs and to individual farmers for both seasonal and medium-term
credit. The subloans must be technically and financially sound and would
cover a wide array of activities, including crops, livestock, fisheries and
small on-farm processing. Any farm activity, including subsistence
production of annual as well as perennial crops under rainfed or irrigated
conditions, would be eligible for financing under the Project. Funds
provided under the Project would be additional to credit funds now
available within the system (para 2.04).
3.06      Seasonal Credit.  Funds would be made available for the
purchase of inputs (fertilizer, seed, pesticides, and herbicides) to
increase the productivity of crops and livestock for both the domestic and
export markets. In estimating seasonal credit demand for the Project, it
has been assumed that the present restrictions on credit amounts would be
removed, so that farmers woulU be able to obtain fertilizer and other
inputs as required to meet demand (para 3.14), Institution of these
measures would result in a more comprehensive response to the effective
demand of the farming community. Subloans per beneficiary, borrowing
through farmers' clubs, are expected to average MK150 (US$65), (Annex 9,
Table 3), resulting from both the increased use of inputs and the higher



- 21 -
input *osts. Total incremental seasonal lending to be financed over the
seven years of Project implementation has been estimated at MK20.5 million
(US$8.9 million). The basis for estimating seasonal credit requirement is
discussed in pars 3.14 and Annex 9. In 1985/86, credit for seasonal inputs
were made to about 200,000 smallholders or 16% of farm families. It is
estimated that the number of borrowers would increase to about 400,000
farmers by 1993/94, equivalent to 26% of the total smallholder population.
3.07      Medium-term Credit.  Funds would be provided under the Project to
finance medium-term loans to individuals and groups in the various ADDs for
types of Investment activities deemed to be financially viable (Annex 9,
Tahbe 4). Included as investment items would be ox-carts, ridgers,
ploughs, sprayers and other farm tools and equipment, supplies for
livestock, dairying, poultry and fisheries, as well as farm buildings.
Smallhojder farmers and clubs would also be advised to borrow, if they so
wish, for off-farm investments that are closely related to on-farm
activities. Such items could include maize shellers, oilseed crushers and
similar agricultural processing equipment. However, because of the
constraints previously indicated (para 2.17), increasing the share of
medium-term credit in total smallholders' portfolio could be slow.
Medium-term credit, to be financed under the Project, is estimated at MK5.5
million (US$2.4 million), only 14% of the total incremental lending by Year
7 of the Project (para 3.19).
3.08      In order to facilitate on-farm investment to those qualified and
interested, the Project would provide for the position of a supplies/
marketing officer within SACA, who would be responsible for identifying
various sources of supply for implements and farm equipment, coordinating
w4th the relevant agencies to assess the appropriateness and performance of
equipment, and arranging demonstrations in rural areas to educate farmers
and assist them in selecting appropriate equipment. In addition, funds
would be provided for four man-months of local consultancy.  This
consultant, who would have broad comparative knowledge of appropriate on-
farm technology, would carry out a study to: (i) critically assess the
constraints affecting the uptake of investment items; (ii) identify
constraints at the village level in the use and manufacturing of equipment;
and (iii) recommend practical measures to remove the identified
constraints. The study should identify investment opportunities to be
pursued by smallholders and recommend terms and conditions which would
encourage such investments. Assurances were obtained from the Government
that the study on medium-term credit would be completed not later than June
30, 1988, and its recommendations implemented, taking IDA's comments into
accounto
Institutional Support
3.09      Establishment of the Smallholder Agricultural Credit
Administration (SACA). The existing credit unit within MOA would be
upgradcd, strengthened, and converted into SACA, at the departmental level
(Chapter 1). This expanded unit would be responsible for managing, at the
national level, the smallholder agricultural credit system and the Central
Smallholder Credit Fund (SCF). The establishment of SACA is intended as a
first step towards the establishment of an independent viable and
sustalnable rural financial institution providing credit to smallholders
and generally to the entire agricultural sector.



- 22 -
3.10      To support the above objectives of enhancing the effectiveness of
the smallholder credit system, the Project would finance the costs of
incremental staff of SACA, technical assistance (para 3.11), training (para
3.12), vehicles, office accommodation, supplies and equipment.
Specifically, funds would be provided for payment of salaries and
allowances for a credit administrator, a financial controller, a supplies/
marketing officer, two accountants, and support staff constituting two
clerk/typists and two drivers. Funds would also be provided for the
purchase of two vehicles plus spare parts, office supplies, equipment, 350
bicycles for field credit staff, and rent for housing and office space for
SACA.
3.11      Technical Assistance.  An internationally recruited credit/
training advisor satisfactory to IDA would be recruited for the first two
years of the Project. This individual would advise the Credit
Administrator and other credit staff on, inter alia, organizing SACA and
the credit system, specifically on staffing, financial management of SCF,
the setting up of SACA's operating policies and procedures, as well as the
establishment of an accounting and information system. The advisor would
also assist in establishing a training program. Funds would be provided
for an additional six months once the Government and IDA determine that
there is a need to extend the advisor's contract. Guidelines for the terms
of reference are given in Annex 8. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that the credit adviser would be in post not
later than April 30, 1988. The Project would rely substantially on the
existing M&E unit of MOA and on the System Analyst provided under the on-
going National Extension and Planning Project to carry out credit-specific
monitoring and evaluation and computerization of the credit system,
respectively. It was agreed during negotiations that a review would be
held by the Government and submitted to IDA not later than June 30, 1988 to
determine whether there is a need for further assistance beyond what is
already being provided by the M&E unit and by the computer programmer under
the National Extension project. To this end, the Project would finance 18
man-months of consultancy time to be used for M&E and the setting up of the
computerized information and accounting system for SACA and the ADDs, if
needed. Part of this funding could be used to carry out ad hoc studies on
the effectivenesss and impact of the credit system. About three man-months
would be needed to undertake the Project's mid-term evaluation. The terms
of reference and a short list for the credit/training advisor was agreed
upon during negotiations.
3.12      Training.  To strengthen the technical and managerial
capabilities of the credit officers and technical staff at all levels to
respond to the credit needs of farmers, training would be intensified under
the Project. All the credit officers, credit supervisors, assistants, and
accounting staff would participate in in-service and residential training,
to be financed under the Project. It is envisaged that all credit staff
(some 400 credit staff, 8 ADD credit officers, and 5 SACA staff) would
undergo an annual one-week training seminar on loan evaluation and
processing, new procedures introduced during the year, club administration,
term lending techniques, loan supervision and collection. In addition, the
credit staff would participate in monthly one-day training sessions at
least eight times a year to discuss topical subjects and to review work
programs and problems encountered. One-day courses would be provided for



- 23 -
officials of existing clubs and two days for new club officials (on the
average, 3 officials per club) annually on club administration, including
bookkeeping. The Internationally-recruited credit/training adviser
(para 3.11), would collaborate with MOA's training specialists in setting
up credit-specific training programs and developing teaching material for
credit staff at the existing residential training centers. The Project
would finance both per diem expenses for the courses and seminars and
preparation of training material. To supplement local training and to
fam41iarize SACA's staff with operating an independe-t credit institution,
the Project would finance short-term overseas courses (20 persons/month)
and study tours (16 person/month) for SACA and ADD credit officers. The
staff selected would visit credit institutions 4n other developing
countries and participate in selected training courses. In general, the
short-term training would cover subjects such as credit management and
agricultural project planning, appraisal, and management. Presentation of
specific overseas training programs, courses, and selected candidates to
IDA for review and comment and this would be a condition for disbursement
of the IDA/IFAD funds for these purposes.
Pilot Credit and Savings Scheme for the Rural Poor
3.13      The Project would provide funds for a pilot scheme which would
attempt to replicate, under Malawian conditions, a system of group credit
for non-land-based activities currently being implemented successfully
under the IFAD-funded Grameen Bank (GB) project in Bangladesh (para 2.27).
The objective of the pilot credit scheme for the rural poor -- to be known
as the Malawi Mudzi (Village) Fund (MMF) -- would be to extend banking
facilities for lending and savings to the target groups without
collateral. The pilot scheme has been conceived in two overlapping phases;
the first would involve the creation of a basic institutional framework and
the initiation of the MMF in two selected locations. Given satisfactory
performance, it would then be replicated at two other locations in the
second phase. There would be a small management unit headed by a scheme
administrator and support staff, and at each of the four selected
locations, there would be an MMF Branch Unit with a contingent of staff and
support facillt4es. There would be a training and induction program for
the staff, The Project would finance consultancy assistance, operation and
maintenance costs, overseas and local training, housing and office
accommodations, and credit funds. Over the seven-year Project period, it
is expected that about 4,000 target group families would participate in the
pilot lending program (details are provided in Annex 7).
D. Credit Requirements
Seasonal Credit
3.14      A major objective of the Government's agricultural policy has
been to sustain self-sufficiency in staple foods and at the same time
encourage agricultural diversification, Because virtually all land is
already cultivated, extra production must come from intensified cropping
and the use of additional fertilizer. In light of this antd given the
prominence of maize in the smallholder subsector and feztilizer used on
maize (currently 11 million ha (70%) of the total arable customary land
area is under maize production), one approach to determ4ning how much



- 24 -
seasonal credit demand exists is to estimate the amount of fertilizer
required to maintain the maize self-sufficiency objective for the period
1987/88-1993/94. Faced with the transportation burden and the bulkiness of
maize, which make imports expensive and exports unviable except to
neighboring countries, the relevant clearing price for Malawi's maize is
between the export and import parity prices. On this basis and given the
importance of maize in the diet, Malawi is justified in following its
stated objective of food self-sufficiency. With a population growth rate
of about 3.2% per year, maize production would need to increase by about 4%
per year if the self-sufficiency objective is to be maintained. It is
estimated that at Year 7 of Project implementation, the maize requirement
would be about 1.7 million tons, an increase of about 265,000 tons above
1986/87 production levels which were considered by GOM as marginally below
self-sufficiency.
3.15      Total fertilizer sales to the smallholders have averaged 61,000
tons per year over the last 5 years and are currently around 65,000 tons
(14,000 tons of nutrients). Sales have increased by about 6% per year
between 1981/82 and 1984/85. During this period, the proportion of credit
sales to total sales increased from 36% to 56%. Availability of credit per
farmer has remained falrly constant at MK45 to MK50 per farmer. The volume
of fertilizer per farmer has increased by 3 to 4% per year over the last 3
years. At present, about 23% of smallholders use fertilizer. Over 70% of
smallholder fertilizer sales is used on maize production. Data from the
National Sample Survey of Agriculture indicate that field application rates
of fertilizer for major crops are well below the current recommendations.
This is mainly due to the limited availability of fertilizer, poor
dissemination of extension messages, restriction of credit packages to 0.4
ha, and overall lack of credit funds to certain ADDS. However, a review of
188 national fertilizer trials with local maize over the past 18 crop
seasons showed that 55 to 60% of the trials had produced yield responses of
11 to 21 kilos of grain per kilo of nitrogen. A shorter run of data for
the most favorable maize area of the Lilongwe Plain showed yield responses
of 26 to 31 kilos grain/kg N for composite and hybrid varieties. The use
of improved crop packages has been good, and if the increased extension
capacity of the NRDP can be harnessed to improve husbandry practices, and
the availability of credit and improved seed can be complemented by the
increased availability of fertilizer, the output response should be
significant.
3.16      The seasonal credit demand estimated for the Project assumes
that:
(a) changes in agricultural input distribution and marketing
systems would not adversely affect input supply and output
marketing to the smallholder subsector;
(b) maize prices and gross margins would be maintained at a
level which ensures that application of fertilizer and other
improved inputs are profitable;
(C) the country would gradually move towards high analysis
fertilizer and at the same time gradually eliminate
subsidies on fertilizer;



- 25 -
The estimate obtained indicates that about 26,000 tons of additional
nitrogen (N) and 8,000 tons of phosphate (P) would be needed in Year 7 of
Project Implementation. Fertilizer requirements would increase from about
18,000 tons (of N and P) in 1987/88 to about 34,000 tons (of N and P) in
1993/94. These requirements are valued, in current terms, at about MK43
million (US$18.7 million) in 1987/88 and about MK98 million (US$42.6
million) In 1993/94 (Table 1).
Table 1: Fertilizer and Credit Requirements for 1987/88 - 1993/94
1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94
Population (million)
(3.2% p.a.)              7.67     7.91      8.17     8.43     8.70     8.96      9.26
Maize requiremert 1/
(million tons)           1.42      1.47     1.52     1.57     1.62      1.67     1.72
Maize production
(million mt)             1.48      1.53     1.58     1.63     1.69      1.74     1.78
Ferti, Requirement ('000 tons)
Nitrogenl               14.55    16.17    17.93    19.83    21.88    24.08    25.91
Phosphate                4.36     4.85      5.38     5.95     6.56     7.22      7.77
Value of fert.
(mil. MK)               43.3     51.9      61.6     71.9     81.0     90.2     98.3
Credit Requirements
Total Seasonal Credit
requirement (mil. MK)2/ 24        30       39       46       54       59       67
1/ Assumes per capita consumption of 180 kg!year.
2I Takes into consideration the gradual removal of subsidies and shift from low to
high analysis fertilizer during the life of the Project. Also includes price
contingencies and 25% allowances for other inputs.
3.17       The self-sufficiency approach only provides an approximate
magnitude of credit demand.  Under the Project, it is expected that inputs
for a greater range of crops would be made available. There would be more
flexible packages, allowing farmers to choose which inputs to use, for what
area, and for what crops, which would increase demand. The provision of a
range of input types and bag sizes, together with the strengthening of
credit services under the Project, should further Increase credit demand.
Including these additional credit needs, the estimated credit requirement
(for maize) is increased by 25%. Up to 1985/86, about 75% of the total
fertilizer used was mainly for maize production.
3.18       The demand for seasonal credit over the Project implementation
period was also projected based on the ADDs' historical performance and
taking into account: (i) farm population growth rates; (ii) number of
beneficiaries; (iii) farm size; (iv) cropping patterns; and (v) average



- 26 -
loan per borrower. These estimates were adjusted for the expected increase
in coverage, removal of resource constraints, and impact of availability of
smaller fertilizer packages. On the basis of this approach (Annex 9,
Tables 2-3), credit requirement is estimated to increase from MK27 million
(US$11.7 million) in 1987/88 to MK58 million (US$25.2 million) in 1993/94
in current terms. Thus, both the ADDs and the self-sufficiency approach
(including 25% allowance for other crops) demonstrate very similar
requirements. However, the ADDs estimate should be taken in light of
existing credit restrictions and resulting distortions. Under the ADDs
approach, it has been estimated that the number of borrowers would increase
from the current 200,000 to about 400,000 by 1993/94, equivalent to 26% of
the total smallholder population; and the average loan per borrower would
increase from the current MK90 (US$39) to about MK150 (US$165). The
increase in total credit requirement would be achieved mainly through loan
size. The uptake would vary by ADD; about 41% of the farm families are
expected to be reached in Kasungu where uptake has been growing rapidly and
7% in Blantyre where uptake has been growing slowly (Annex 9, Table 3).
The increase in the number of beneficiaries would require major efforts in
extension, training, and credit delivery. However, this target level is
achievable. Firstly, assuming an average of 20 members for each club, only
4-5 new clubs per EPA would need to be formed each year. Secondly, the
experience in Kasungu ADD, where the average annual growth rate in the
number of beneficiaries between 1982-86 was 39%, indicates that the target
is achievable.
Medium-term Credit
3.19      Estimation of medium-term credit has been more difficult to
evaluate given the past poor performance and the fact that data are less
readily available, Medium-term credit was estimated on the basis of the
ADDs' experience to-date. The estimates have been adjusted for the
expected changes in lending policies and procedures, and the likely removal
of constraints in the supply of investment items (para 3.08). Ridgers,
ploughs, farm carts, and sprayers have been the main items sold on medium-
term credit. In 1986/87, a total of 220 ridgers, 281 ploughs, 233 farm
carts, 307 sprayers, 103 work oxen, and 95 dairy cows were sold to
farmers. The equipment sold was only half of the total programmed by the
ADDs. Demand was limited due to the high cost of these implements. Under
the Project, a modest increase in the supply of investment items is
proposed (Table 2), mainly to farmers with over 1.5 ha of land. It is
expected that the opening up of sources of supplies may reduce costs and
more appropriate technologies may well become available if certain items
(ox-carts), are purchased from rural artisans (para 3.08). In addition,
the proposed expansion of the irrigation program and fisheries provides
scope for increasing demand for investment items. A list of possible
investment items is shown in Table 2 below, and an overview of the expected
investment demand is presented in Annex 10.



- 27 -
Table 2: Estimates of the Number of Items for
Medium-term Credit
Items                           Total Units Projected
Farm machinery 6 equipment
(ploughs, ridgers, etc.)                       8,000 -  9,000
Cotton sprayers                                 6,000 -  6,300
Ox-carts                                        2,500 -  2,900
Processing equipment                              700 -    750
Stall feeding                                   2,000 -  2,500
Dairy animals                                     600 -    650
Poultry units                                     200 -    250
Fisheries (ponds)                                 200 -    300
Total Lending and Net Credit Requirements
3.20       The incremental lending requirement for the Project is presented
in Table 3 below, taking into account available funds in the system. Total
lending for seasonal and medium-term credit over the seven-year
implementation period has been estimated at MK324 million (US$141
million). Available funding, including undisbursed funds from on-going
projects, amounts to about MK299 million (US$130 million). The total
incremental credit requirement which would be financed under the Project
has thus been estimated at MK25 million (US$10.9 million).
Table 3: Total Lending and Net Credit Requirenents
(4K '000)
Total
1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91  1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 (cmulative)
A. knual lending Program t
Seasonal credit                 24,108  30,710  38,632  45,912  53,568  59,342  66,%1    319,233
Mediurterm loan                    600     650     700     750     850      950   1,000      5,500
Total lendirg program        24,708  31,360  39,332  46,662  54,418  60,292  67,961    324,733
B. Funds Available
Collections 2/ - seasonal credit   16,200  24,108  30,710  38,632  45,912  53,568  59,342    268,472
- medium-term lowis    75    195      325     465     540     710     780      3,090
Unutilized funds 3/              5,066       -       -       -       -       -       -      5,066
Net lncair   4/                    500     258     318     382     433     494    559        2,944
Total funds available        21,841  24,561  31,353  39,479  46,885  54,772  60,681    279,572
C. Incawntal Funds RPired
(A - B)                          2,867   6,799   7,978   7,184   7,533   5,5'9   7,280     45,161
D. Fnds From tnutilized Balces 5/   3,413   5,228   4,059   2,542   2,426   1,150   1,250     20,068
E. Net Requirenents
(C - D)                           -546   1,5,1   3,919   4,642   5,107   4,369   6,030      25,093
1/ Frum Table 1.
2/ Collections include provision for doubtful debts.
3/ hAiUle finds not utilized for 1986/87 lending program.
;/ Net inwme assimW  at 1% of previous year's lending, except for 1987/88 as in 1986/87 a&iinistrative
expenditures wre not paid out of inco,e generated fran lendirg operations.
5/ Withdraa of funds under (xr-Vig projects (Annex 2, Tables 1-2).



- 28 -
3.21      One of the major objectives of this Project, as indicated earlier
(para 3.01), is to bring in flexibility in the use of credit by the
smallholders. The annual lending program in Table 3 is, therefore, an
indication rather than a target for lending. The ADDs would determine
their credit requirements based on effective demand as is the current
practice and the Project would ensure that credit resources would be
available as needed.
RE Total Project Costs
3.22      Total cost of the Project, including physical contingencies,
expected price increases and taxes and duties, is estimated at MK33.O
million (US$14.4 million), with a foreign exchange component of US$10.3
million, or 72%. The Project costs include recurrent expenses of MK0.74
million (US$ 0.32 million). Of the total Project cost, incremental credit
amounts to MK25.4 million (US$ 11.0 million); the pilot credit scheme
accounts for 7%; and institutional building accounts for 17%. Technical
assistance accounts for 4%, training for 7%, and vehicles and equipment for
4%. The cost estimates are based on June 1987 prices and include taxes and
duties estimated at MKO.09 million. Price contingency estimates assume,
for both foreign and local currency costs, price escalation of 3% for 1987,
1% for the years 1988-1990, and 3.5% per year thereafter. Price
contingencies have been calculated on the assumption that differences
between domestic and international inflation rates would be offset by the
exchange rate adjustments. Project costs by component are summarized in
the following table (details are given in Annex 3, Tables 1-6).



- 29 -
Table 3.1A: Project Cost Summary
(KWACNA '000)              (US$ '000)                     Z Total
- --------           -       -------- ---- -- --  Z Foreign   kaw
Local  Foreign Total    Local  Foreign Total    Exchanfe    Costs
=Zza=: ZZa== ==::=au   ::sr:cz:: ssr t 8nuuarn:a uzzx:::s  Z v:azu
A. INCREMENTAL StLLHOLDER CREDIT    5P677  174897  236573   2P468   70781  10,249               76        77
0. INSTITUTIONAL BUILDIN6              1,952  3M121   5,073       849   1f357   2.205           62        17
C. PILOT CREDIT SCHM                     993   1?034   24027      432      449     881          51         7
Total BASELINE COSTS                     8.621  22,051  30,672   30748   9,587  134336            72       100
Phssical Contingencies                  113     322      436      49      140     189          74         1
Price Continsencies                     584   1,434   2.018      254      624     877          71         7
Total PROJECT COSTS                      9.318  234808  33M126   4v052  10,351  14,403            72       108
-sZ2sSs:_:r  ---:s   s:_:s --=M r= rz=   =rs:s  =can==zvr   zz--ca
Table 3.1B: Project Cost Summary by Components
MK  '000                                   Physical
INCREMENTAL                  PILOT             Contingmies
SNALLHOLDER  INSTITUTIONAL  CREDIT
CREDIT       BUILDING      SCHEME  Total       I    Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                     -           1.196        -    1W196    5.0       60
B. VEHICLES                                                 -             772        -      m      5.0       39
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES I EQUIPMENT                              -             200        -      200    5.0       10
D. TRAINING
OVERSEAS (NEIGGBORING COUNTRIES) TRAINING                -             644       -       644    5.0       32
LOCAL TRAINING                                           -           1,569       -    1,569    5.0        78
Sub-Total TRAINING                                          -           24213       -    2,213    5.0       111
E. PILOT CREDIT SCHEME                                                      -   29027    2.027    0.0         0
F. INCREMENTAL CREDIT
SEASONAL CREDIT                                     19P238               -       -   19,238    0.0         0
MEDIUM-TERM CREDIT                                   44335               -       -    44335    5.0       21.
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL CREDIT                           236573               -        -   23,573    0.9      217
---- --- -   -…---- -      - - - -- -        - -   - - 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                    23.573           4.381   2.027   29.981    1.5       436
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES I MAGES                                  -             370       -       370    0.0        0
8. VEHICLES OtH                                                          140       -       140    0.0        0
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES & ADMINI. EXPENSES                                    182       -       182    0.0        0
… …                         _        _         _       -------
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                          -             692        -      692    0.0        0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       23.573           5.073   2.027   30,672    1.4       436
Ph,sical Contingencies                                     217             219        -      436    0.0        0
Price Contingencies                                      1.565             302      152    2.018    1.3       25
…_      … _ __   __                                   -----
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        25Y354           56593  2W178   33t126    1.4        461
::::__ =Z=  =ZZ_tz_ _--Z __Z-2=;  =;:_:_zZ   _=   =::::J:
Taxes                                                                       20        -       20    0.0        0
Foreimn Exchange                                        19.258           39439   1.111   23N80      1.4     341



- 30 -
F. Project Financing
3.23             The financing plan for the total Project would be as follows:
…-------uS  '000 --------
IDA        IFO      iWICIARIES  B. OF NAII    Total                       Local
~ ___       _   -                      (ExelC Iutls I.
Amt t I  Aout I          Aont  Z   Amt   I   Aomt  Z   For, Exch. taxes)  Tases
1. INYESTENT COSTS
A TECMICAL ASSIStNCE                           2P3 50    283  SO                        0    0       565   4         509     57        -
. EHICLES                                      19050    lSO   50          - -           0    0      39   3           3        -        -
C OFFICE SULIES I EUIPENT                       48 50      48  50                          -          97   1          0      19
D. TRAINIII
OESEAS (NEIGHBORING COWTRIES) TRAINING      153 50    153  50          -   -         -    -       305   2         305      -         -
LOC  tIRAININS                               79 10      79  10         -   -       605   79       763   5         158    605         -
S-Total TRAININ8                              23' 22    232  22           -   -       605   57   1068    7           463     5         -
E. PILOT CREDITStNEIE                            -  -    947 100          -   -         -    -       947   7         483    464        -
F, INCREWNTAL CREDIT
SEASOAL CREDIT                            4,193 47  4,193  47          -   -       5       6   8t922  62        6692  24231          -
NEDIUI-TERN CREDIT                          946 45    946  45        210  10        -0   -0   29102  15         1,681    420
Sub-Totel INCRENENTAi CREDIT                 5.139 47  5,139  47        210   2       535    5  114024  77        84373  2.651         -
Total IlJESINENt COSTS                         5,891  2  6,839  49         210   1    1W140    a  14,000  98        10,285  3,796         -
11. RECIT COStS
A. LOCAL SAARIES IABMS                          -  -       -   -         -   -       172  100       172   1          -    164         9
. VEHICESO IN                                  23 35      2335           -   -        20   30       65   0          46      20        -
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES I ADII  EXPENSES            10 12      10  12         -   _        64   75       85   1          21      64
Total RECURRENT COSTS                             33 10       33  10         -   -       256   79      322   2          67    247         9
Total Dii wunt                                  5IM25 41  6,872  48         210   1    1.396   10  14,403  100       10,351  46043         9
3.24             Total foreign financing, to be provided jointly by IDA and IFAD,
would amount to US$12.8 million, which would cover 89% of incremental
costs. The Project costs to be shared in proportion and amounts as
summarized above, reflect the provision of a grant by IFAD for the pilot
scheme and the need to minimize disbursement problems. Thus, the proposed
IDA credit for US$5.9 million, on standard IDA terms, would finance 41% of
the total Project cocts (47% of the foreign costs and 25% of the local
costs). The portion of the IFAD loan/grant would amount to US$6.9 million
(48% of total project costs), of which 53% would cover foreign costs and
36% the local costs. Local currency financing by IDA and IFAD would be
justified for this type of project and would be in line with other on-going
Bank projects in Malawi.



- 31 -
3.25      Project beneficiaries (participating farmers) would finance about
1% of the total Project cost (US$0.21 million); and an estimated US$1.4
million, equivalent to 10% of total Project cost, would be financed by the
Government through budgetary allocations to MOA.  The Project would
increase the Government's budgetary allocation to MOA by about US$0.30
million (MKO.7 million) in seven years.  To avoid requiring the Government
to pre-finance local expenditures reimbursable by IDA and IFAD and to
ensure that funds for the Project would be made available when needed,the
Government would establish two special accounts in 6 commercial bank. One
of these accounts would be funded by IDA for expenditures to be financed by
IDA and the other by IFAD for program components to be supported by IFAD.
IDA and IFAD would upon credit effectiveness and receipt of withdrawal
application, make an advance deposit of US$300,000 each. The Account would
serve as a revolving fund to finance Project expenditures. IDA would
periodically replenish this account upon receipt and approval of the
withdrawal applications, together with satisfactory evidence that the
expenditures paid out of the special account were eligible for financing
out of the Project. A separate special account would also be established
for the pilot scheme and this would be a condition of disbursement of this
component. IFAD would make an advance deposit of US$100,000 to this
account. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these special
accounts would be established.
3.26      IFAD would finance 100% of the pilot credit scheme for an amount
equivalent to US$0.95 million, of which US$0.5 million would be on grant
basis. Funds for this component would be disbursed by IFAD to GOM. MOF
would transfer the funds to MMF, through the Office of the President (OPC),
as budgetary allocations in accordance with terms and conditions of a
subsidiary financing agreement to be signed between MMF and MOF. IFAD
would disburse funds from grant resources to the special account
specifJcally for the scheme (para 3.25), to be established in a commercial
bank and held in US dollars unt.er'Lhe  4'nt signatures of the Scheme
Administrator (SA), and the designate of the PS of OPC. Once the grant
resources (US$0.5 million) are nearly disbursed, replenishment of the
special account would be made from the credit allocated for the scheme by
IFAD. The execution of this financing agreement, satisfactory to IFAD and
IDA, between MMF and MOF would be a condition of disbursement for this
component. The signing of the financing agreement between IFAD and the
Government would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.27      Funds allocated under the Project for incremental salaries, other
administrative expenditures, technical assistance, incremental, seasonal
and medium-term credit, the pilot credit scheme, and training would be
transferred by MOF to MOA/SACA and OPC/MMF. Funds for the seasonal and
medium-term credit would be disbursed by SACA.
G. Procurement
3.28      Project procurement would be in accordance with IDA procurement
guidelines. Contracts for US$100,000 equivalent or more would be awarded
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Contracts below US$100,000 equivalent would be awarded through
local competitive bidding (LCB), according to local procedures which are
acceptable to IDA, with contracts for less than US$50,000 equivalent being



- 32 -
awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers. Local
procurement will also be open to Bank-member countries. Procurement
arrangements are summarized below, with amounts to be financed by IDA
credit in brackets and by IFAD in parenthesis.
Procurement Method a/              Total
ICB        LCB       Other     NA          Cost
(US$ million)
Vehicles and Equipment       0.4         0.1                             0.5
(0.2)      (0.05)                           (0.25)
[0.21      [0.05]                           (0.251
Overseas Training                                  0.3                   0.3
(0.15)                (0.15)
10.151                [0.151
Local Training                                     0.8                   0.8
(0.08)                (0.08)
(0.081               [0.08]
Technical Assistance                               0.6                   0.6
(0.3)                 (0.3)
(0.31                 [0.3]
Incremental Credit                                11.0                  11.0
(5,1)                 (5.1)
[5.1]                 [5.1]
Operating Costs                                              0.3         0.3
(0.03)      (003)
[0.03]      [0,03]
Pilot Credit and Savings
Scheme                                           0.9                   0.9
([09]                 [0.9]
Total                        0.4         0.1      13.6       0.3         14.4
(0,2)      (0.05)    (5.63)   (0.03)        (5.9)
[0.21      [0.051    [6.631   (0.031        [6.91
a, Figures include price contingencies, but excluded in figures in the DCA.
3.29      The Project would disburse for seasonal credit (i.e., it would
finance credit rather than the inputs directly), and according to practice,
on-going arrangements for procuring fertilizers and other inputs would
continue. As at present, incremental requirements for fertilizer would be
considered part of the overall national requirements and would be procured
by the Fert'lizer Fund through ICB.  The investment items financed by
medium-term loans such as farm tools, small equipment, ox-carts, and minor



- 33 -
on-farm works, would be unsuitable for procurement through local bidding
because of their small value. Sub-borrowers would purchase their
requirements of these items through ADMARC or local commercial channels.
Increased participation of the private sector in the procurement of
fertilizer and other inputs and investment items, should increase
competition among suppliers, and thus be to the advancage of the sub-
borrowers (para 1.22). The selection and employment of technical
assistance personnel would be in accordance with IDA guidelines and
opportunity for application would be given to local consultants.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the procurement
procedures outlined above would be followed, and that all technical
assistance personnel would be employed under terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to IDA.
H. Disbursenent
3.30      The total foreign financing (US$12.8 million) would be disbursed
over a seven-year period. The rate of disbursement follows that of the
Bank's standard disbursement profile related to Malawi area development
projects which contain credit components. The proceeds of the IDA credit
and the IFAD loan/grant would be disbursed as follows:
Amount a/           Proposed
($ millionT         Disbursement
IDA    IFAD           Percentage b/
Seasonal Credit for Inputs           4.20    4.20    94% of expenditures
Medium-term Loans                    0.90    0.90    90% of expenditures''
Training                             0.23    0.23   100% of foreign
expenditure for overseas
training/tours
Vehicles & Equipment                0.25    0.25   100% of expenditures
Technical Assistance                 0.30    0.30   100% of expenditures
Pilot Credit and Savings Scheme    -         0.95   100% of expenditures
Operating Costs & Maintenance       0.03    0.03   100% of foreign
expenditure
a/ Amounts include prince contingencies but in DCA, price contingencies
have been separated.
b/ Of components co-financed by IDA, pari pasu, 50:50 with IFAD, with the
exception of the pilot credit scheme which is 100% IFAD.
3.31      The proposed project would finance eligible incremental seasonal
credit to be made by the ADDs. Incremental seasonal credit would be
defined as the aggregate amount of credit for inputs provided or to be
provided to farmers or farmers' clubs countrywide in a crop year, from
October 1, 1987 through September 30, less the aggregate amount of such
credit provided in the preceeding crop year. However, s4nce currently
there are undisbursed funds available for seasonal lending for borrowers in



- 34 -
specific areas, from international and bilateral agencies (para 2.04),
these funds would be drawn down prior to withdrawal of project funds
(eligible credit). Initially, therefore, the project would finance farmers
mainly in those areas which are not sufficiently funded under on-going area
development projects.
3.32      Information on disbursement of seasonal credit by ADDs is
available for the 1986/87 crop season. Prior to the commencement of each
crop season, MOA/SACA would submit to IDA and IFAD estimates of such
disbursement for that season, thus establishing the incremental for the
season, together with estimates of availab'e funds from on-going projects,
as above. This information would be significant only for planning
purposes. Actual withdrawals would be made by suitably operating the
Special Account (para 3.25). Disbursements against contracts or purchase
orders of less than US$20,000 equivalent and for expenditures for seasonal
and medium-term credit and training would be supported by statements of
expenditures (SOEs), signed by the SACA Administrator and the Financial
Coordinator of NRDP in MOA* Full supporting documentation in respect of
such SOEs would be retained by the borrower and made available for
inspection by IDA and IFAD during normal Project supervision. All other
disbursements would be made against full documentation.
3.33      The estimated disbursement schedules for the IDA and IFAD credits
(Annex 3, Tables 5-6) are as follows:
FY88     FY89     FY90      FY91     FY92     FY93      FY94
…US$ million-----------------------
IDA credit
During FY
Cumulative       0.2       0.7      1.6       2.7      3e7      4.6      5.9
IFAD credit/grant
During FY
Cumulative       0.3       0.9      1.9       3.2      4.4      5.4       6.9
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
General
4.01      The Project, with the exception of the Pilot Scheme (para 4.07),
would be implemented by MOA, through SACA, the credit sections in ADDs,
MOA's training and personnel units, as well as by farmers' clubs and
individual farmers. Overall responsibility for project implementation
would be with the Principal Secretary (PS) of MOA. Day-to-day management
of the Project would be the responsibility of the Credit Administrator, who



- 35 -
would be the chief executive of SACA and who would report to the PS through
the Controller of Agricultural Services (CAS-NRDP). The existing National
(Smallholder) Credit Committee, chaired by the CAS-NRDP, would continue to
advise the PS on smallholder agricultural credit policies, procedures and
use of financial resources. This Committee would be strengthened by
additions to its membership of representatives from the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) and the Office of the President and
Cabinet (OPC) as was agreed dur4ng negotiations. Additional members to
this committee subsequently have been appointed.
SACA
4.02      The Credit Unit within MOA has been upgiaded into SACA.  SACA, as
a separate management ane accounting unit with departmental status within
MOA (Chart 1), would be responsible for managing, at the national level,
the smallholder agricultural credit system and the Central Smallholder
Credit Furd (SCF)e SACA's major responsibilities would be to:
(a) pool in the SCF all the assets and liabilities of the Credit
Funds now existing in the ADDs and/or RDPs;
(b) establish guidelines for preparation of annual lernding
programs by ADDs and recommend to MOA management for
approval the proposed annual lending programs and allocation
of funds;
(c) establish operational guidelines, disbursement, accounting
and reporting procedures, to be applied uniformly by all
ADDs; supervise and monitor implementation of lending
programs, operational and financial performance of ADDs, and
operating results;
(d) ensure that all contractual obligations relating to credit
operations in the area-specific projects currently being
financed by international and/or bi-lateral financial
institutions and donor agencies are fully complied with;
(e) establish staffing norms and coordinate training programs
for ADDs' credit and credit accounting staff;
(f) prepare action programs to: (i) increase access of
smallholders to institutional credit; and (ii) promote
savings by farmers' clubs and individual members in Post
Office Savings or Commercial Banks and other financial
institutions;
(g) maintain close linkages with the agricultural research and
extension services; and
(h) explore possibilities for increasing and diversifying
sources of supply for farm inputs and investments.
An experienced and qualified person, acceptable to IDA, has been appointed
to head SACA as the credit administrator. While SACA would have its own



- 36-
operational and accounting staff, it would utilize, to the extent possible,
specialized staff in other MOA units in the areas of training, personnel
management, computer'.zation and impact evaluation. SACA staff would
comprise a financial controller, two credit operations officers, one supply
and marketing officer, two accountants, and office support staff. The
financial controller and the supplies marketing officer have also been
appointed, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
SCF
4.03      At present, each ADD has its own credit fund invested in loans,
sundry debtors, and stocks. The unused balance is kept in an account that
each ADD maintains with RBM. These individual capital funds represent a
liability to GOM which has made the funds available to each ADD. To
overcome defects of the present system (para 2.07), the assets and
liabilities of individual ADDs' credit funds would be merged and
consolidated in the SCF to be administered 'y SACA. Thus, the assets and
labilities of SCF would be consolidated assets and liabilities of the
participating eight ADDs. SCF's capital fund (its equity) would consist of
ADD capital funds transferred to SCF on October 1, 1987, any future
withdrawal of credit funds under the area-specific projects, and the SCF
net income accumulating as of October i, 1987. The firancial operations of
the SCF are detailed in Annex 4. The Government Order establishing SCF has
been received and was found satisfactory by IDA. Resources of the SCF
would be deposited in a current account with RBM. The interest-bearing
current account for the SCF has been established with RBM. This account
would 1Far interest at the ruling bank rate (currently 11% p.a.).
4.04      As the credit system would remain decentralized, ADDs would
continue maintaining separate bank accounts in the Reserve Bank of Malawi
(RBM) and in branches of commercial banks for their credit operations.
SACA would maintaini for each ADD a "capital fund account" and a "currer.,
loan account". The capital fund account would show the amount of capital
and accumulated profits which was transferred to the SCF on October 1,
1987; any future withdrawals of resources from various donors under on-
going area-specific projects (allocated to credit operations) would be
,recorded in the respective ADD capital fund account. These sub-accounts
would provide a continuous and permanent record on the contribution of each
ADD to the SCF Capital Fund, and would serve as a source of information for
preparing periodic reports and/or withdrawal applications to donor agencies
for area-specific projects.
4.05      Credit funds eligible for withdrawal under on-going area-specific
development projects would be withdrawn, in accordance with terms and
conditions stipulated in the respective credit agreements, before
withdrawals of funds under the Project. However, during project
implementation, SACA would determine on a project by project basis, the
pooling of committed but still undisbursed resources under on-going
area-specific projects into the SCF. SACA would take into consideration
the Government's concern for continued flow of credit funds from other
donors, and also donors' specific interest. The donors have expressed a
general support for the Project.



- 37 -
4.06      With the overall objective of transforming Malawi's smallholder
credit system into a more efficient system, the project is also designed to
minimize Government budgetary support. In this regard, income generated by
SCF would be utilized for: (a) reimbursing MOA for the amount of salaries,
allowances, and other related expenditures paid to the credit staff of SACA
and the ADDs; (b) creating provision for bad and doubtful loans made out of
resources of SCF; and (c) pay MOF, an amount equivalent to interest at t.'le
rate of 2% per year on the resources transferred by the Government to the
SCF out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan. Any remaining
balance of income would be transferred annually to the "General Reserve" of
the SCFo Assurances to the above arrangements were obtained during
negotiations.
Pilot Credit and Savings Scheme
4.07      Implementation of the pilot scheme would not be linked to SACA
and SCF. The scheme would be implemented by a separate legal entity to be
established specifically for this purpose and to be known as the Malawi
Mudzi Fund (MMF). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Borrower would establish MME not later than December 31, 1988. The
establishment of MMF, satisfactory to IDA and I2AD, would be a condition of
disbursement for this component. The initiative for introducing the pilot
scheme was taken by GOM through the Office of the President and Cabinet
(OPC), and OPC would maintain overall supervision and control over its
4mplementation. For this purpose, a committee, to be chaired by a senior
official from OPC, and comprising representatives from the Ministries of
Community Services and Agriculture and other interested Government
departments and agencies, would be appointed by GOM and act as a
supervisory/advisory body in all matters relating to implementation of the
scheme and its financing. An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that the supervisory/advisory committee, would be appointed with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA/IF#D. and would be a condition of
disbursement for this component. The scheme administrator (SA), would be
the ch4ef executive of the MMF and would be responsible for the day-to day
Implementation of the pilot scheme. This person would report to the
committee mentioned above through its chairman. The SA would also
establish effective reporting and management information systems as agreed
during negotiations. The appointment of a suitably qualified scheme
adm'nistrator, satisfactory to IDA and IFAD, would be a condition of
disbursement of this component.
Training
4.08      The training program would be organized by the Training Unit now
existing within MOA. This UJnit has been established under the on-going
Agricultural Extension and Planning Support project and is responsible f3r
consolidating the on-going training activities, organizing, and
implementing a long-term training program. SACA would determine priority
training needs of the credit staff, suggest candidates for overseas and
local training, and prepare preliminary training programs which would be
submlttXd to the Training Unit for review and implementation. A special
effort would be made to include women in the training program. An
assurance was obtained from the Government that SACA would take appropriate
measures to ensure that participation of women in the farmer training



- 38 -
program is to the extent of their representation among smallholders, The
credit advlsor would assist SACA and the Training Unit in: (i) establishing
procedures and criteria for determining overall training needs; (ii)
preparing criteria for selecting training programs and candidates; and
(iii) setting up credit-specific training programs and teaching material.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SACA would submit its
annual training programs to IDA for review and comment by June 30 of each
year. IDA has reviewed the first year's training program and found it
satisfactory.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.09      The Project would channel seasonal and medium-term credit
resources to smallholders, and sub-loans would be made for any technically
and financially sound farming activities. Seasonal loans would finance up
to 100% of the total value of purchased inputs. Medium-term loans would
finance up to 90% of investment costs, and borrowers would be required to
contribute in cash or in kind not less than 10% of the cost of the
investment. Repayment terms for medium-term sub-loans would be based on
the capability of sub-borrowers to repay and would not exceed the useful
life of thr investment financed. The current loan default policy (para
2.09) woulc be maintained.
4,10      Lending procedures for seasonal credit would be closely in line
with current procedures applied by the NRDP system. These procedures are
detailed in the MOA Credit Manual (revised in 1986) and are considered
adequate. However, policies and procedures for mediut,-term loans would be
further reviewed and improved by SACA. These changes would allow for: (i)
the projacted increased volume of lending; (ii) strengthening of appraisal,
loan servicing a.id reporting procedures; and (iii) establishment of
procedures for lending to farmers' clubs for on and off-farm investments.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a draft of the revised
Credit Manual, incorporating the above subjects, the new procedures
relating to the operations of the SCF, and the formation and administration
of farmers' clubs would be submitted to IDA for review not later than June
30, 1988 and adopted taking IDA's comments into account. It was also
agreed during negotiations that for the pilot and savings scheme,
beneficiaries would receive credit without collateral and the loans would
be repayable in weekly installments over 50 weeks, or as otherwise agreed
between the Government and IDA and IFAD.
Interest Rates
4.11      Currently, commercial banks and other financial institutions
charge interest rates ranging between 15% and 16.5% on agricultural loans
(para 2.18). Interest rates in Malawi are regulated by RBM whose overall
policy is to maintain interest rates at a level conducive to the growth of
savings while fostering the efficient use of resources. Accordingly,
interest rates have been revised fairly regularly in the past to take into
account trends in the rate of inflation and to regulate credit. The rate
of inflation in Malawi averaged 12% p.a. between 1982 and 1985, accelerated
somewhat to 13% in 1986 and is currently estimated to be 15%. It Is
anticipated that inflation will decline to 12% in 1988, 9% in 1989 and 7%
in 1990.



- 39 -
4.12      The NRDP credit system's actual charge for seasonal credit in
1986/87 crop season was 10% calculated on a fixed financial charge basis,
equivalent to 13.3% on an annual basis with current average repayment in 9
months. The interest rate on medium-term loans to individual borrowers was
10% p.a., for investments (para 2.18). At start-up of operations of the
SCF (1987/88 crop season), interest rates for the smallholder credit system
has been raised to 12% (fixed finance charge, equivalent to an annualized
rate of 15 to 16%) on seasonal credits and to 15% p.a., on medium-term
loans. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that the interest rate structure would be reviewed periodically and
suitably revised by the Government to ensure that rates charged on
smallholder credits are maintained positive in real terms and are in line
with the overall interest rate structure in the country. It was also
agreed during negotiations that to the extent that during any review, the
interest rate charged to smallholders are not positive, the Borrower would
take prompt measures to ensure that the rates become positive in real
terms.
4.13      The present procedure of charging a flat finance charge for
seasonal credit is undesirable because it acts as a disincentive for early
repayment and penalizes clubs that borrow for short periods only. However,
simple procedures need to be maintained; a change in customary banking
practices of calculating and charging interest due in place of a fixed
charge cannot be considered at this stage. To test the possibility of
introducing a more equitable finance charge and providing incentives for
early repayment, a rebate of 4% (reducing the finance charge form 12% to
8%), would be granted to farmers' groups and clubs which fully repay their
seasonal loans within six months form the date of receipt of inputs. These
rebates would be deposited by the credit administration in clubs' savings
accounts with POSB or commercial banks and utilized by clubs at their
discretion.
C. Annual Lending Program
4.14      SACA would establish guidelines for preparation of annual lending
programs. As is the practice at present, ADDs would continue to submit to
MOA, one year in advance, their estimates of farm input requirements (both
for cash and credit sales). By the end of December of every year, MOA,
through SACA, would advise ADD Program Managers on Government production
policies and priorities and on the projected availability of farm inputs.
This information would constitute the basis for preparation of lending
programs by ADDs. By the end of March, the ADDs would submit to SACA their
projected annual lending program, in the format shown in Annex 5, which
would be accompanied by a detailed table listing the inputs to be financed
on credit and a table showing projected acreage by crops. SACA would
prepare the consolidated annual lending program, which would then be
presented to the National (Smallholder) Credit Committee for consideration,
before submission to MOA for approval. Processing of the annual lending
program and allocation of funds should be completed by the end of June.
The ADDs would be authorized to prepare programs for RDPs - EPAs, and to
reallocate resources within the ADDs during implementation, as considered
appropriate. Funds required for implementation would be withdrawn by ADDs
from the SCF without further intervention by SACA (Annex 4).



- 40 -
D. Credit Staff
4.15      MOA has completed a survey of existing credit and accounting
staff employed at all levels of the system (para 2.20). During appraisal,
understandings were reached on general criteria for setting up staffing
norms, although these cannot be expected to be uniformly applied throughout
the system.
4.16      During regotiations, assurances were obtained that SACA would
carry out i-  - J pth review of all recurrent administrative expenditures
relating t       r-edit system and submit a plan (including a staffing plan)
to IDA by June 30, 1988, accompanied by financial projections, for the
phasing out (in two years) of GOM budgetary support to cover the cost of
credit administration.
E. Computerization of the Credit System
4.17      SACA is expected to plan and implement computerization of loan
accounting, reporting and management information, and to establish
procedures and prepare programs which would be applied uniformly throughout
the credit system. SACA would utilize and share the EDP equipment now
existing in ADDs and MOA headquarters. Systems analysts/computer
programmers financed under the Extension and Planning Support project (Cr.
1626-MAI), would assist SACA in computerizing the credit system; however,
resources have also been provided under the Project to finance short-term
specialized technical assistance, if required, for setting up the
computerized accounting and information system.
F. Strengthening the Farmers' Club Movement
4.18      Given the average landholding size of the target population,
extension and credit assistance have beer,ca.1 can only be provided through
group organizations such as farmers' groups and clubs. Over the years, the
club movement has grown rapidly and has demonstrated impressive results in
facilitating access of smallholders to extension and institutional credit.
However, the formation of clubs, with the exception of Kasungu ADD, has
slowed considerably since 1983.
4.19      Under the Project, appropriate measures would be implemented to
ensure continued growth and sustainability of the club movement. Such
measures would include: (i) involvement of field credit staff in providing
guidance and assistance to club officials in club management, administra-
tion, record-keeping, loan servicing, and marketing; (ii) involvement of
extension staff in promoting formation of new clubs, and widening the range
of technical advice focusing on the needs of the lower strata of small-
holders and women; (iii) preparation, printing, and distribution by SACA of
documents and books to facilitate administration, and record keeping; (iv)
training of club officials, with emphasis on administration and record
keeping; (v) assistance to farmers' clubs in developing into multi-service
organizations, providing not only seasonal credit but other services as
well to their members. In this context, clubs would be advised to purchase
farm implements for use by members and other farmers against payment of
rental charges, and to invest in off-farm activities benefitting their
members; and (vi) encouragement of depositing of funds in savings accounts
in either POSB or commercial banks. Assistance to farmers' clubs for
training, credit needs, and savings would be on a voluntary basis.



- 41 -
G. Mobilization of Rural Savings
4.20      SACA, the field credit staff and club officials are expected to
play important roles in savings promotion schemes to be carried out during
Project implementation. In this context, assurances were obtained during
negot4ations that SACA would establish, by April 30, 1988, a Savings
Coordination and Promotion Committee, chaired by the Credit Administrator,
comprising representatives from RBM, the two commercial banks, POSB, MUSCCO
and the ADD Program Managers.  The Committee would review all aspects of
savings mobilization in the rural areas, assess its potential, examine the
constraints, and draw up coordinated action programs for promoting and
fostering savings by smallholders. These action programs would be carried
out by local working groups comprising field credit staff, representatlves
of the financial institutions, club officials and local leaders. Promotion
of rural. savings would also be included by SACA in training programs for
f4eld credit staff and club officials. SACA, in cooperation with the
financial institutions, would monitor the implementation of savings
promotion sehemes and report periodically to IDA on the progress and
results.
HI. Reporting, Accounts, and Audit
4.21       SACA would he required, as agreed during negotiations, to submit
to IDA semi-annual progress reports which would include a summary of
operations by ADDs, a resource position, and a statement showing arrears
and loan collection ratios. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
SACA wou'd also submit to IDA by July 31 of each year copies of the annual
lending program (para 4.10) together with the individual programs for ADDs
in the format shown in Annex 5.
4.22      The ADDs would continue to maintain accounts of credit operations
and prepare internal annual financial statements (balance sheet and profit
and loss statements). Based on agreed policies, SACA would provide
guidelines to the ADDs in regard to projecting and accounting for
administrative expenses and making provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
SACA would be responsible for preparing consolidated financial statements
for the ADDs, incorporating the financial results of its own operations.
4.23      SACA would also be responsible for preparing financial statements
relating to Project funds. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
consolidated f4nancial statements and those relating to Project funds would
be audited by the Auditor General of GOM or by qualified auditors
acceptable to IDA, and would be submitted (together with a special report
on withdrawals from the IDA Credit and the IFAD Loan/Grant based on
statement of expenditure and such other information as IDA may reasonably
request) with the auditors' report to IDA not later than six months from
the end of SACA's financial year (i.e. September 30). Similarly, MMF would
also be required to separately prepare its financial statements and
accounts and submit them not later than six months from the end of its
financial year (i.e. March 31)e Assurances to carry out the above was
obtaIned during negotiations.



- 42 -
1. Monitoringand Evaluation
4.24      SACA would be responsible for establishing and maintaining
procedures to monitor progress in Project implementation and would provide
information and prepare periodic reports on the operation of the SCF and
the smallholders' credit system. The M&E Unit within MOA's Planning
Department would coordinate and direct the evaluation of the Project and
generation of data required to assess its impact and results. SACA would
liaise and cooperate with MOA's M&E Unit in the design phase of the
evaluation studies and ensure that information pertinent to SACA is
incorporated in the data analyzed. The Project, in addition, would provide
resources to finance short-term technical assistance, if and when required,
for studies on the effectiveness and impact of the credit system at the
smallholder farmer level and for a mid-term evaluation of the Project to be
carried out during 1990/91, and completed not later than December 31,
1991. A joint review by the borrower, IDA, and IFAD would be carried out
following the review. SACA would prepare the Project Completion Report
within six months after completion of the Project. Similarly, during the
third year of implementation, KMJF would carry out a full mid-term
evaluation which would be completed not later than December 31, 1990.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the
mid-term reviews and the completion reports would be prepared as specified
above.
J. Implementation Schedule
4.25      The Project execution period would be January 1988 to August 1994
(Chart 2). It is expected that local staff recruitment would occur by
November 1987, and technical assistance recruitment would occur mainl,
during the first year of the Project. Also, the procurement of vehicles
and equipment would be corapleted during the first two years of the
Project's implementation.
K. Environmental Impact
4.26      Environmental considerations are being addressed through MOA's
extension, research and training programs, and this Project would benefit
indirectly from these efforts. It is anticipated that the research-
extension programs would generate extension recommendations relating to
soil management, water conservation and agroforestry for improved
conservation and environmental protection. Therefore, the extension,
research and credit projects taken together are anticipated to have a
beneficial environmental impact. The relatively small quantities of
fertilizer to be used, which would also be influenced by the "inputs
package" recommendations, are unlikely to cause soil or environmental
problems. Pesticides to be used are expected to be limited to small
amounts of insecticides for crops such as tobacco and cotton and are in
compliance with the Bank's guidelines. The recommended chemicals and
pesticides mainly used by smallholders are shown in Annex 11.  As a result
of the Government's effort to increase agricultural production, the use of
different types of pesticides may also increase.  However, the Government
is concerned about the negative effect of certain chemicals.  Thus, to
protect the environment and smallholders, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Borrower would ensure that appropriate pesticide
control practices are followed.



- 43 -
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The proposed Project would assist in the economic development of
the smallholder subsector through the provision of seasonal and investment
credit which, in turn, would strengthen and expand the production base and
contribute to increased agricultural production, employment, and income
generation.
5.02      Agriculture is the leading growth sector in the Malawian
economy. Constraints discussed above (paras 1,11-1,13) indicate that
increased productivity of both food and cash crops would have to be the
major source of Increased production in the future. While factors such as
adequate incentives, development and use of appropriate technology, and
support services such as extension and marketing are important
prerequisites, the availability of efficient credit services is crucially
important for assisting future production increases. To address this need,
the establishment of a strong and efficient credit system is essential.
The Project would direct its attention to the basic institutional
weaknesses of the smallholder credit system and would attempt to develop
more efficient utilization of financial and human resources through
consolidation of credit funds, rationalization of policies and procedures,
and better coordination of donor assistance.
5.03      The Project, through the creation of SACA, would establish an
institutional mechanism to develop a financially sound rural credit
system, thereby improving credit delivery at the national and the ADD
levels. Credit deficit areas would receive greater attention, and a
mechanism for allocating credit to meet fluctuating demand in the various
ADDs would be provided. The institutional improvements would ensure
greater financial discipline in the Government's credit programs.
Project-related training and technical assistance, through SACA, would
improve staff capability to efficiently channel and broaden the base for
credit to the smallholder sector.
5.04      By increasing credit coverage, the Project would benefit a wide
spectrum of farmers, the main potential beneficiaries being smallholder
farm families. Considering that almost 85% of the rural population falls
under the poverty level and that nearly 30% of the families are
female-headed, the Project would have a significant impact on the poor and
women members of the population. Some 400,000 farm families are expected
to be reached by the end of the Project period (para 5.05).
5.05      Under the Project, seasonal credit would be made available for a
greater range of agricultural enterprises, more in line with smallholder
needs. In 1986/87, credit for seasonal inputs was made to about 200,000
smallholders, or 16% of farm families. It is estimated that the number of
borrowers would increase to about 400,000 farmers, or 26% of total farm
families. As indicated in Annex 6, Tables 10-11, the uptake would vary by
ADD: about 41% of farm families are expected to be reached in Kasungu; 30%
in Karonga; 4% in Ngabu; 7% in Blantyre; 33% in Lilongwe; 9% in Liwonde;
29% in Salima; and 30% in Mzuzu.



- 44 -
B. Financial and Economic Benefits
5.06      Available data indicate that crop yields obtained by smallholders
in Malawi can be increased from about 9% for groundnuts to 40% for maize
through the adoption of improved practices already being followed by
commercial farmers (see table below). Additional technology packages are
expected to be developed through the on-going research project financed by
IDA. The dissemination of this improved technology is being carried out by
the extension service, which is supported by an extension project in
progreas. The availability of credit resources under the Project would
thus complement both the research and extension efforts. An increase in
yields would raise rural incomes and employment and contribute toward the
national objectives of achieving agricultural diversification and increased
product4on of both import-substituting and export commodities.
5.07      Using prevailing input and output prices, crop budgets and
activity budgets were analyzed to assess the impact on farmers' production
and income (Annex 6, Tables 1-6). Returns on improved inputs have been
found to provide adequate cash flow to farmers to service loan repayments.
Through the use of seasonal inputs, it is expected that farmers would
increase their gross margins and net returns per manday as iadicated
below. For example, increased fertilizer use and the adoption of improved
cultural practices would result in incremental increases in gross margins
ranging from 12% for pure stand local maize to over 40Y for hybrid maize
using current prices. The net return per manday would similarly increase,
ranging from 7% for pure stand local maize to about 45% for hybr4d maize.
Increases are also expected to occur in tobacco, cotton, and groundnuts.
Project Increases in Crop Incomes and Returns 1/
Constant 1987 MK
Gross Margins /ha           Net Returns Per Manday/ha
Incrm.                          Incrm.
Unfert.    Fert.    % Incr.   Unfet,        Fert,    % Incr.
Local Maize
Pure stand       104         116        12        0.92        0.98       7
Intercropped    154          185        19        1.12       1.28       14
Composite maize   128          196        53        0.99        1.38       39
Hybrid maize       128         211        64        0.95        1.38       45
Tobacco            340         391        15        1.29        1.47       13
Cotton             255         521       104        1.06        1.83      72
Groundnuts
Chalimbana       265         293        10        1,29        1.47      10
Manipintar       307         337         9        1.76        1.93        9
17 See Annex 6, Tables 1-6 for detailed calculations.



- 45 -
5.08      As an indication for medium-term investment, representative
models for dairy and poultry activities have been analyzed which indicate
hig' profitability (Annex 6, Tables 6-9), with financial rates of return
rai.ging from about 20% for poultry enterprises to over 25% for dairy cows.
5.09      As the investments under the Project would take place over a
large geographical area, involving different agro-ecological zones, types
of farmers, farm sizes, and a wide range of cropping patterns, the budgets
only provide order of magnitude. Furthermore, because improved inputs
(adoption rates) are linked to a variety of factors (such as prices,
research and extension efforts, and transport) whose influence is difficult
to separate from that of the credit system, it is difficult to make an ex
ante quantification of the likely benefits of the Project. No attempt has,
therefore, been made to compute overall financial and economic rates of
return for the Project.
C. Projected Financial Results of the SCF
5.10      Assuming a minimum annual volume of lending of MK25.0 million
(subject to efficient financial management at all levels of the system and
effective cost control, and generation of interest income on utilized
resources accumulating between seasons), it is projected that the SCF would
achieve a net return of 2% p.a., on its resources out of a gross income of
about 14%. A small portion of the projected net income would be utilized
by SACA for the payment of interest to GOM/MOF on the incremental funds
provided under the Project (para 3.20), and the remaining balance would
increase the SCF Capital Fund.
Projected Income and Expenditure Statement of SCF
(MK25.0 Volume of Lending)
MK - '000          %
Income
Interest on seasonal and
medium-term credits                        3,000           86.0
Interest on deposits with RBM
and commercial banks                         500            14.0
Total Income                                 3,500           100.0
Expenditures
Administration                               1,600            46.0
Provisions for bad and
doubtful debts - 5%                         1,400            40.0
Total Expenditure                            3,000            86.0
500           14.0
Net Income                                   3,500           100.0



- 46 -
5.11      Income projections are based on the new interest rates to be
introduced under the Project (para 4.11) and it is anticipated that the
cost structure and the percentage of net income, as shown in the above
table, would not materially change with the increased volume of lending
operations resulting from the Project.
D. Direct Budgetary Impact
5.12      The Project impact on the budgetary resources would be
negligible. Overall budgetary contributions are projected to increase by
MKO.1 million (US$0.05 million) annually. However, it is expected that
SACA would reimburse the Treasury for its staff salaries and auministrative
expenses (para 4.06). At an estimated volume of lending of MK25 million
(projected for 1987/88) and redeployment of staff, Government would be
reimbursed by SACA for about MK1.5 million annually. This amount is
equivalent to about two and a half times the amount of interest to be paid
by RBM on SCF's unutilized funds, which in the past were not deposited in
an interest bearing account. Apart from indirect taxes and duties
amounting to about US$0.63 million in year seven, the Project could
generate additional fiscal revenue on taxes levied on incremental export
production.
E. Project Risks
5.13      There is every reason to believe that the proposed Project,
If implemented, would result in substantial returns in terms of increased
agricultural production in Malawi. There are some risks, however, that may
affect project implementation. One of the risks invo.ves delayed
implementation -- the establishment of SCF and the staffing posts may not
be created and filled in a timely manner. The Project has tried to take
account of this by seeking assurances that the Government Order
establishing SCF be a condition of negotiations and that, prior to
negotiations, MOA provide IDA/IFAD with the applications to the Public
Service Commission on creation of SACA and the position of Credit
Administrator.
5.14      Another risk would be that producer prices might not generate
sufficient incentives to the farmer. Because of the need to eliminate
fertilizer subsidies, coupled with high inland transportation costs, the
price of fertilizer (representing about 70% of credit granted to
smallholders) has been increasing by about 15% p.a., and is likely to
continue to increase in the near future. The increased demand for credit
would depend on whether producer prices provide sufficient incentives to
take up improved packages. It is expected that, through the adoption of
competitive marketing arrangements starting this season (1987/88), the
forces of supply and demand would set appropriate producer prices. In
addition, the Government-set floor prices do incorporate farmers' gross
margins. The Government has also decided on a policy of changeover from
low analysis (high volume) to high analysis fertilizer which should lower
transportation costs and help to maintain incentives to producers.



- 47 -
5.15      Yet another risk would involve the instability of the current
marketing arrangements. The Government has instituted a policy that allows
private sector entities to participate in smallholder crop marketing (para
1.22) beginning with this crop season (1987/88). This policy, which
changes ADMARC's function, could result in temporary disruption of the
marketing system affecting farmers' incentives and credit demand. In
projecting credit demand, the Project took into consideration that the
uptake of credit would initially be adversely affected, not only by the
marketing disruption, but also by the slow uptake of high-analysis
fertilizer. It has been argued that changes in ADMARC's function would
result in a lower credit recovery. However, since sub-loan repayment is
the responsibility of club officials (para 2.08), the change is not
expected to significantly affect this aspect of credit recovery.
5.16      A further risk would be that the research and extension services
might not be able to develop and disseminate suitable technologies
effectively enough to stimulate future production increases. Both services
are being strengthened through on-going IDA financed projects -- the
Research project (Cr, 1549-MAI) and the Extension and Planning Support
project (Cr. 1626-MAI) -- and the generation and distribution of new
technologies resulting from the Project efforts should stimulate increased
farmer demand for credit and, as a consequence, increase agricultural
productivity.
5.17      There was some feeling among ADD managers that the establishment
of SACA would diminish their responsibility, thus resulting in a
disincentive for them to work effectively. At appraisal, the managers were
reassured that the day-to-day operations of the credit system would still
remain decentralized under the overall responsibility of the ADD
management.
5.18      The principal risks involved in the pilot scheme include: (i) the
ability to locate a coordinator with the interest and capability to
motivate and inspire staff and borrowers; (ii) the level of
entrepreneurship emerging from within the group; and (iii) whether the
concept can be successfully implemented within the Malawi context. These
risks would be minimized by the relatively small size of the pilot scheme
as well as by the phased approach following the mid-term evaluation.
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from
the Government:
(a) not later than June 30, 1988, a study on medium-term credit
would be completed, and to implement its recommendations
after IDA review and comment (para 3.08);
(b) the internationally-recruited credit/training specialist
would be recruited not later than April 30, 1988, according
to IDA guidelines with qualification and experience
acceptable to IDA (para 3.11);



- 48 -
(c)  review would be carried out by the Government and submitted
to IDA by June 30, 1988, to determine the need for
recruitment of M&E and computer programmer, and for the
Government to execute the decision (para 3.11);
(d)  income generated by SCF would be utilized as indicated in
para 4.06 and SACA would pay to MOF an amount 'quivalent to
an interest at the rate of 2% per year on resources
transferred by the Government to SCF (para 4.06);
(e)  to prepare and submit to IDA for revie' -A comments not
later than June 30 of every year, the an, ial training
programs for credit staff (para 4.08);
(f)  to revise and submit to IDA for review and comments not
later than June 30, 1988, the credit manual, new procedures
relating to operations of the SCF, and plans for
strengthening the formation and administration of farmers'
clubs (para 4.10);
(g)  lending terms for the pilot credit and savings scheme as
specified in para 4.10 would be followed (para 4.10);
(h)  the interest rate structure of smallholder credit would be
reviewed periodically and revised to ensure that rates
charged on smallholder credits are maintained positive in
real terms and are in line with overall interest rate
structure in the country (para 4.12);
(i)  SACA wouid carry-out an in-depth review of all recurrent
administrative expenditures relating to the credit system
and submit a plan to IDA for review and comments, not later
than June 30, 1988, accompanied by financial projections for
the gradual phasing-out by September 30, 1989 of GOM
budgetary support covering the cost of credit administration
(para 4.16);
(j)  SACA to establish by April 30, 1988 a savings coordination
and promotion Committee, chaired by the Credit Administrator
(para 4.20);
(k)  SACA to prepare and submit to IDA for review and comments,
annual lending program and semi-annual progress reports
which would include a summary of operations by ADDs,
resource position and statement showing arrears and loan
collection ratios (para 4.21);
(1)  SACA would prepare consolidated financial statements and
those relating to Project funds audited by the Auditor
General of GOM or by qualified auditors acceptable to IDA,
and submit the audited statements (together with such other
information as IDA may reasonably request) and the auditors'
reports with specific comments on disbursements made against



- 49 -
SOEs and from the Special Account to IDA not later than six
months from the end of SACA financial year, i.e. September
30 (para 4e23);
(m)  MMF would observe the reporting, accounting, and auditing
requirements as stated in (1) above and submit the reports
within six months of MMF's financial year (i.e. March 31),
(para 4.23);
(n)  SACA, with assistance from MOA's M&E unit, to carry out the
mid-term review during 1989/90 and completed not later than
December 31, 1991 (para 4.24);
(o)  MMF would carry out a full mid-term evaluation during the
third year of implementation which would be completed by
December 31, 1990 (para 4.24);
(p)  SACA to submit a Project Completion Report within six months
after Project completion (para 4.24); and
(q)  the Borrower would ensure that appropriate pesticide control
practices are followed (para 4.26).
6.02      A condition of disbursement for the training component under the
IDA credit would be that the study tours and the candidates for those tours
are satisfactory to IDA (para 3.12).
6.03      Conditions of disbursement for the pilot credit scheme under the
IFAD credit would be:
Ca)  establishment of a separate special account for the pilot
credit scheme for the rural poor (para 3.25);
(b)  execution of the financing agreement between the MOF and MMF
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.26);
(c)  establishment of separate legal entity (MMF), satisfactory
to IDA (para 4.07);
(d)  appointment of a supervisory/advisory committee for the
pilot credit scheme, with terms and reference satisfactory
to IDA (para 4.07); and
(e)  appointment of the pilot credit scheme administrator
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.07);
6.04      A condition of effectiveness would be the signing of an agreement
with IFAD (para 3.26).
6.05      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the Project is
suitable for IDA credit of US$5.9 million and IFAD credit/grant of US$6.9
million to the Government of Malawi.



- 50 -
Chart 1
MAIAWi
SMALL HOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Department of Agdculture In MOA Wlth Proposed
Small Holder Credit Administration (SACA)
L  PS        i
_ NRC _SAdmin
-Tr. Unit                                                                                     i Personnel
-eADMAnC                                             F lnan ce
- Estates
-ASCA
- KFCTA
-STA
-SSA
DAHI                     DAR                      DOA                                              PLAC     | FAN DIV
CVO                      CARO                     CAO                I                                  CPr O
_ PFon & Budget1e
Reme S     g .dMatkeing & hicng
30 x Rur v.  P-Prect Prp.
TCch. Adminst               PlSnn & Monn  PDoe                         ProceOing
DCAO                        ACAO                               Survey
.~~~~~~~~~0v Officer
Ext & Train.  |BCROPS                        LOCd Husb.  |                         Ext. Aids Bronch
ACAO      l           _    ACAO                  . _    ACAO       !WACAO
_ Ex*on                      -Cereois                    - Land Use and              -Publlcatlon
-Training                    - Legumes & Oil               Soil Consenvfaton         _Audio Visuol
-Tobacco                                                -Medio Evol.
| Credit             _~~~~~ Cotton                - Resource Pbonning            Molntenance
l~~~~~~~~ Horticulture                             8 Forrn Manogement
-Woffen Progr.             -Crop Protect.
_Form Mech.                 -Ferfll zers               -L.H. train and
Environ. Eclucatlon
-Qemote Sensing and
imogery Prowsslng
i eX Agrlc. D ev. Division1
Programme Manogersi
30 x Rutol Dev. ProJect
iExisthng Credit Sedton                   ProJect OffPmer
ISACA   Now (.tedit AdministrtoWn              
L____                            |    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~73 xE.P A.s |
| Dev. Otricets
r  SECTION  
|  BLOCK  |:      x 54 blockslAISectlon
Wotld Bonk-31142



- 51 -
aiart 2
MALM~
smALWHaER AGtICULTURAL Cn IT PRDEC
Implamentat1on Schedule
Year O      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6/7
1 234 1 234 1 234 1 234  1 234  1 234  1 234
Farly Arctims
Establishment of SAIA           X
Creation of SCF                 X
Staff recruitment               xx XX
lending ngram (credit)                          X XX X  X X X X X  X X X X X X X  X X X X
Trainr
Local                               XX X XXX X X XXX XXXX X XX X X XXXX
Overse                                      X            X           X           X
onstdtants
Credit Specialist                   X X X X  X
System Analyst                      X           X
Pilot Credit Schem
Mid-ten
Phase I                             X XX X X X XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Ptase II                                                      review    X X XX   X X X X   X X X X
Studies
Medium-term study                   X X
A-1Nc study                                     X X
Mid-term review                                             X x



- 52 -
AN= 1
Table 
9U1WFR M~IaU RAL CREDIT P1D=
Number of Smalholder Farms and Cultivated Area by Holdirf Size (1984/85)
YarOnP   M4Ztm    Kaaurgl  Saliv    ilorgm  L~iwore  Blwatyre  %abu
Size Rage (ha)         Msaawi      KPDADD   MZADD    KMD      SIAW       IAM      LWAlD    BLW        N)
NLm)er of Farns
less than 0.99          718,103  22,157   51,065   53,528  44,214  111,976  183,871  203,106  48,186
1.00 - 1.49             258,236   5,897   20,663   32,295  15,716   57,729   64,289   47,169   14,478
1.50 - 2.99             268,638   6,698   46,118   83,381   15,590   61,322   54,031   40,778  15,609
Greater than 3.00        54,889      537   11,948   18,227   3,562    7,421    5,612    5,074   2,458
Total            1,299,866  35,339  129,794  187,431  79,082  238,448  307,803  296,127  80,731
Cultivated Area (ha)
less than 0.99          403,023   11,336   25,756   31,967  24,429   68,949   107,418  109,017  24,582
1.00 - 1.49             317,630   7,194   25,622   39,723   19,016   71,584   78,433   57,546  17,518
1.50 - 2.99             547,328  12,721   72,079  134,214  25,513  111,061   93,150   70,640  28,107
5reater than 3.00       219,556    1,873   51,137   75,278  14,569   20,259   21,606   17,860   9,734
Total            1,487,537  33,125   174,594  281,182  83,526  271,853  300,607  255,064  79,941
Averae holding
size (ha)              1.14      0.95      1.48     1.66     1.10     1.21       1.00      0.88      1.02
Souire: ASA, 1984/85.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Status of ADD/RDP Credit Funds - September 30, 1986
ADD                          RDP                            Amount - MK 11
Karonga                                                            910,000
Mzuzu                (a)  Henga-Lower Kasitu                       630,884
(b)  Mzimba-Rukuru-Upper Kasitu             1,087,957
Kasungu              (a)  Dowa East                                907,808
(b)  Mchinji                                1,031,669
(c)  Dowa W4est                             1,696,029
(d)  Kasungu                                1,165,952
(e)  Ntchisi                                  830,000
Lilongwe                                                         6,202,444
Salima                                                           1,570,000
Liwonde              (a)  Mangochi/Namwera                         810,000
(b)  Kawinga                                  600,000
Blantyre             (a)  Phalombe                                 378,475
(b)  Shire Highlands                          837,307
Ngabu                                                            1,562,954
Subtotal                                   20,221,479
UNCDF 2,3,920,000
Total                                      24,141,479
1/ Unaudited.
2/ UNCDF resources are not earmarked for specific ADD/RDPs and are
allocated annually by MOA according to credit demand to supplement ADD
credit funds,
Source: MOA and mission estimates



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Status of ADD Credit Funds - Setember 30 1986
(Unaudited)
(MK ''000)
Funds not yet Disbursed
ADD          Capital Fund 1!        as per Credit Agreements      Total
Karonga               910.0                      500.0 2/             1,410.0
Mzuzu               1,718.8                    8,251.9 '/            9,970.7
Kasungu             5,631,5                    7,265.3 T/           12,896.8
Lilongwe            6,202.4                    1,550.7 3,            7,753.1
Salima              1,570.0                                          1,570.0
Liwonde             1,410.0                      675.0 5/            2,085.0
Blantyre            1;215.8                    1,825.1 T/            3,040.9
Ngabu               1,563.0                                          1,563.0
Subtotal       20,221.5                    20,068.0              40,289.5
UNCDF               3,920.0                                          3,920.0
Total          24,141.5                    20,068.0              44,209.5
1/ Capital fund includes accumulated net income.
2/ EEC.
3/ IDA.
4/ IFAD & GOM.
5/ AFDB & GOM.



- 55 -                          ANNEX 2
Table 3
MALAWI
SMALLUOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Average Subloan and Holding Sizes
Average Loanper Participant               Average
1982/83    -1983/784    1984/85    1985/86       Holding
KRADD          30          37          54           69          0.96
MZADD          82          85          92          154           1.24
KADD           54          70          91           84           1.76
LA.')D         56          76          90          102           1.34
SLADD         75           59          70           99          1,15
LWADD         47           38          42           56          0.93
BLADD          37          51          56           68          0.88
NADD           28          42          31           67           1.24
Malawi         51          57          66           87           1.16
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, ASA 1983/84 and NSSA 1980/81.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Seasonal Credit - 1985/86 - 1986/87
(MK ' 000)
1985/86                            1986/87 2/
No. of    No. of                   No. of    No. of
ADD      Amount 1/   Clubs       Members    Amount 1/   Clubs        Members
Karonga           725.3        531       9,177       428.9         504        8,824
Mzuzu           2,824.6        654      18,283    1,812.9          487       13,952
Kasungu         5,219.6      2,055      62,178    5,824.9        1,910       60,566
Lilongwe        6,453.8      2,280      63,893    6,329.3        2,314       66,234
Salima          1,449.0        872      14,768       968.2         613       10,531
Liwonde         1,084.8        902      19,295    1,032.4          871       18,706
Blantyre          975.3        574      14,314    1,084.3          681       18,522
Ngabu             408.8        385       6,088       400.0         401        6,119
Total    19,141.2       8,259    207,996   17,898.8        7,781      203,454
1/  Amounts shown include principal and 10% fixed finance charge.
2/ Credit disbursements up to January 31, 1987. Total for 1986/87 is
estimated at K18.2 million.
Source: MOA



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Credit Accounting Staff
October 1, 1986
ADD Credit Staff              Accounting Staff (Credit)
PO/CTO   STO   TO   STA   TA         CEO   SEO  BE   SCO   CO
Lilongwe       1        3      8    -    107        1     -     2    -       6
Kasungu        1        1       2    3     28       -     -     1    1       3
Blantyre      1         1      4    1      27      -      1     -    _       8
Liwonde        1        1       2    2     23       -     1     -    -       8
Ngabu          1        1      -    1      56       1     -     1    1      12
Karonga        I        -       1    2     12       -     -      1    -     15
Salima 1!     1         -      3   10      23      -      -     1    1       5
M4zuzu         1        1       4    2     19       -     1     -    1      11
Total     8         8     24   21    295        2     3     6    4      68
1/  Additionally some 56 credit collectors are posted at ADMARC markets for
three to four months during the crop season.
Source: Reports CFA 131 prepared by the ADDs for the mission.



Sr.LIUJ82 661OLTM (X8T PDECT
Tsble 1. IECRIIETL SfILIUW   CRDIT
flUit. . Cost Table
Totahels IhIea. Cw4it~iesm
he. cost's                                        3.  Catst in                                   T.t.1, litluding Cmntisa'ie,                                     466$ 100l)
I99  199   1999  1990   M91   29M   19M  Tot1         197  96  19 M I91990  299   199   199  Totl    199  1982  1969   IM    191   IM9   199   Total    198  1983  199    19    1991   1992    1WTu
1. 1l9T0m c82
WAM266 OWDT                       -   99  3.0     37047  4.68   3.114  4,412  19230    - 39  1.346  1.612  1.746  2.354  1,91    8.364    -   9   3.294 3,976 4.241  3.362 4,831 28.1.                - 39   1393  1.49   1.944  2.462  2.144  0922
ID1AF1    031                         600   639   679   762   922   833  4,335          - 261   27    295   331    357   312   1485               639   695   745   845   93    97   4,66            - 279   30    32    367   40    425  2.102
Ste-row.  111119&  CEll?                1#494  3.734  4.396  4.77   3.996  5.245  23.73    -  5  1.42   1,90   29077  1.on1  2,29   10.249       - 1547 3,899  4.421 5.08   4#294  598  23.34            -673 1,693  2.00   2P211  2.86   2.569  21.0
foual 166988327                         -  2,494"  3P7344.39   4.779 -3,93   5.245 213.57      -  5   1.42   1.97  2,077  1,711  2.39  10.22           19547 3439  4#W       $1 54 64294  2.918 3.4         -  7  1695 2.009  29211  1.672.6   11M
- - -    - - -  ~~~~~-   - --    ---------                                                                                                - m   -             mum  -m   snumg    - =m
total                         -  ~~~~~1.494 3,73   4v=8  4.778 # 3,965245  235673    -6     1.623  1,tW   2.07  itU    ,U0  10249    -  154   34M98   4.41  5 664294 1.99   253.4                 -673 1,695 2.00   29211  I.86   2.569  II.02
I



3113E6mma   33utable
1. 11,911107 CWS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~33.3.Isiwim1333
OM/Milme AM.    0    O   12   ~4  .        .    .   .                 443. 2    3    ---6 1ut.  t   m to  .   .3.3        2   310 M3 -as-4-3-e win3in 14.3 341.36  .3e
oxtmmwormn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43 mm333u0 3 1 4s           p            7---2                          0 ---1                        oM                    3          11--6-3
vi-"NAMAmn1                                                            -----   - -----                                                     - -  -  -  -  -                      - -  --
L IMILD to-                                                        VA32  33  -  -  -  -  3 2  7243            963I932*  M   -    -  -  M3   M9  M35 M -  -  -  -  741  S  33244  'A  -  -  -  W
4he-0MA I 11                go ut     -   --                        4           -  -      -  -   -7  --- -- - - -----  -                      -- .--- M- -----                        -4 -e
s.inau                      a276 l                                                  93  -  -  -3M21632M3M   -21            --    3m  94          In739       - 3,*  a3    M,4            III  M
11011111   3               1     20   -   -   -   -   -   -   40  431   3   -  -  -  -  -  -  373   7  -              -p       2      a92    -  -  -  -30   -  393  19- -    -  -  -9  -  69
am  ORMS               -~ 5    -       -   -    213    043-   -23 -   - Mrn 3 -  - 3           -  -932M32 iz        n63                                       33 .3  - -  tM n .-344   -  -3M  394
heMt mIto -                                    - -        -       to      36-  -  -30   --5*4 - 73 34  -  -   --   -29    53    It   -  -   -   -395 -   I3323               -   -  -33 493 -79
he461d 0733   I 333Pm                              ----- -~~~~---- - -                ------ -                  - - - - - - - -  -- -- - -- -
31-     3      -9         M   4,-    -39 -M                                              Z 47  -3- el   4   26- 2a  97
gmcm                     S0    5   $   3        -   -   -   3921     3936  33346- --   @444I044  4.                -  --3ID    333  3343353343  4.- 33    933 $23 -  -                     - 3
he-el     16131                                                            --1 656bS            -2  --242   2           -  -  9    -    -1 a  a   -  --             2            - -    -
new          .16   .53       .2 .9.    .        3.49.4    a  333343              -6333 46-634-63-   3U    i   3335-3-3-9-4--US   24714)  
35.93 5733345                                                      319a 319 3o1is9 3to  to M  34  t19II  74    9,,,,36I 3 342    37   a    w   3i033333331 32   9    4 7013334  30
CUDM. 1333                                            --   -    -                           --  -  ----0MMM0 1         4   1404 -- -  10-  -f to li to II in M-                        s
2931S43941S37241 M6M.to to  M  M m3AM M7M  M47                                  M 2    I'M346333,3323   391961notot I   la  73.M
=kmo l  m--.. -us.-- ; --- -- -                                                                                       -  -         --  -- - -  -. -- -  - -- -              -
- …       -e-  ~~~~~- - - - - - - -…---      
am 31In3361               No    I   I   3   3   3   3   I    73I5       I  1353335 313 33533 it 77  77777    4,    i5   34349 14 37 37  333    7  7777  7 a   49
0,1111.Ioa331              No    I   I   I   I       I   I    732.4   1233212123 123 aI3 s   a7    5535353    3l    33  133a333333434        3 5 6066It64    19
OICI I aS3nnuwnrm         ID    I   I   I   I        I         76.3      99II99999    42   44  44  444    21                           9       I93043              4  444         4      4    2?
Ammon               is1   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   34 3.9       88638I 3I               3 3 33133333    24                         3    336099    39    344  4  444    21
3133                63~~~~~~~   23   2   2   2   2   2   3432.2    4  444444    33                   2232 2 3 2   a             4    553      535I        2 1   2321322223    34
053fwIw                   1      2   2   3   2   2   2   2   3472.2    4  444444    33    3332232 3 2 33                               4    53  3    33S     5 3n3       2         33 3 23    14
he-MePM 31173313 aI     s-…                                                                                                               -    -  - --           -…
W34 a                     g      2   2   2   2   2   2   3   343t        02 0   332633390 a 1 to          19    p         9    a3    30 2  n 2132232233923           9 ''  9 '        M"    U
aem3 up3.1                        -        -    -    -m                                         …- ---  -           -       S --        I               --- -
@WVU~~~~~t3~~~tg*mi-33333433430333~OF    ..   ..                              62 6   8364    3  343 6 43 So        3t  M3939          Is393932332         aAS1 863s9  M       
33 
Mel   ~   3413                                     ----- --- - -- --  -     -  -- -- -  -  -  -  - -  -    -    -  -  -  -  -  -…----                                     
tale  fw-…- -ihd 2  o, n
......…-- -------- -…-----



l.b8. 2. PILOt CfCOOl St.988 Pa88 IMF 808. PM I
wtml,*4 COiL 1,681
-------     ------ -                                -  ------                                                          - ---------   - -----     -
U.st 899 1988 1989 8991998 89 2 199 0ot.1  Cost 8907 1988 9989B   989219  ,.    8288 1999         899989908992299 total   899? 899 1969 8981991 192MtU    "   "   M1"II29928993 total  1870 8988 0969 19O 8993 89* 1993 Total
0. 8899808080 COSTS
A. T[COSICM. 4SS8S0W8
88-----    Ll---   t68Q03        8           8 8 - -                       823 211--                    - -            2       38        -    -        3 -8               8     -- -          93      4     8-      - -           8
S.,b-latal ltldlC4L O$5S91.CE                                                        52  82  1       -   -   -       92   26   8   8   -   -   -   -   38   5519  19   - -               ~      93   34   8   9                      49
S. ST09tUDYWAA6TO881S0.40.0                                       .         -        35   - - --                      3       55is - - - - --8             15   32     - - --                   37   16 -86- --                      - 84
C. 889811.S '
48148 NDg                                I   - - - - - -    8 4 43                            4      3-   - --     4         3       8      9     - . 1~   46           6           - - --4   462          9 - -2- -9- 2
UotoScOaCS                        No     2-        -2 --                 43.0       8 -         I                  is 1  3    -      3-        -                8-         8   --    -    12    4 --              4--
Dic0Z8$                           No            8   680 .6                                 3            -           S 2-                                 2                        -           s 2                 -                2
8.4-tot#l 9648C1.S /*                                                                55       --I               -     63  24             3                22 3 --    -   -2  967   24    -                         4    ---          29
D'. TRAINING
8. O8S0AS MINING28
0VC95I8T"iS                    me     3             I   I             583~30 6            --  98       --       5915--               4 4--           22   32   -- 88   -I             -    54   84-    -5 5-               -24
8.0-Total 8999906 TOtOlOO                                                          39    --8989--                   383 --             44               22    52      --t itl-                s 541          -5          --        24
2.8.~~48.t8A061iE                                       1    8 3 2---                    7    C   48    8   -   -   -    S    8    8 3 2---                        8 -88------- -3
S.4.-total 08400280                                                                  38     838f2 1t         --       S57830          1  5   4 --         2    33813038  la                -    62      1861 i 6         5--?r
E. OFtICE 809L11S I E888P*8E41
-08819 ----------
CAOU669mti                                                                                                          3                        9…8    9…9        9-8    9…
S.4.-TOotaOFFICE SUPPLIES A E19P91                                                   21   1-22    98… -19238-'.488o0-19
F. C0ttIFtW0PILOT I                                                                  20  40488120 886--              37     981733 52 4    --            48     'I1438Be33 125   --4            0        9893835854 --    28 
Total 889950964 COSTS                                                                  215  3986  4046826           -6 4 3 264444852    -                226 229 648888 55 3834-    4 4929 486259-t                                 SO
It. OCaO$T* COSTS
I. 58.41IES 9 Vt0
96Di2C1 IAN89EP/tO88918TO         8     I   8   I   I    8-I            5 9.8     9   9      9 99--               46    4   4   4 4 4 --               20    9  919808t  0-    -                   4 4   4   4   4 --             2
MA  SAW    98 (FR                *      2   2   2   2   2   -   -   84.5t   9   9  9    9  9             -        43    4   4   4  4    4              1   9    9   9 999          - 9       45    4   4   4   4   4-             20
PK OWNtS (D)                      o  8  288 28128 12            - 53  2.2         15  22  26.626   4- L1?               78It8838888--S                      164n2220           29    --     72 21002812832    --5
ACCOWIIIS                        8D     I   I   I   I   I-              52.2    2       Ž2   2 2        --        It8      I 8 I   I   I-               5    2   22 232 --                   12    8     1 8    8 8-              5
CLC9O/Tt'85                      No  22 2 22--  8  2 4 4 444-- 20 22 22 2--9  4 444 4-- 28  22 22 2--9
8489t8                           No     1   I   I   I   I   8   8    2  2.2    2   2   2   2   2   2   2    IS    I   I   I   I   I   I   8    2      2   2               2   2   2   3    12    8   8   0   8   8   1   1    2
80880869N8                       8    2 22 2--  82.2  - 444A4--   8  -2 2 2 2--                                                                              - 555 5-- 9  - 2232 2--  6
NESSEK8S                         No   2  22 22-   -10   8    232  2 2--                                                 I  I  I 8  I-                   4  2 222 2--   8   I 8  II   1-- 
S*4-Totsl SLA81ES I88060                                                            44  55  59  59  59 2   2   29 19  24  28  26  26   8   8  121   44  5 462  4Ž1  64   2   3   293   89  25  22  27  20   I   1  822
D. OPHOCLC 01
40488O                           No     I   I   8   I   8I              5    881988868688to              - -    SO    4   4   4 4   4 -    -   22   11  88  88  28   88 -   -    55                    5     3S 5   5 --          24
88I18tILs                        196  2 22 2                           to 8  2  44 4 44-- 28  22 2 22-- 9  4 444 5-- 22   Ž2Ž222  --80
So,b-lotal 0tE82C. O80                                                              84 184814   14                   29      4 6   6       86              3985838584 6 16 --                  22    6     2222-7                 -33 
C. OPFICC 8t0
CE8T94L1WIT09MAL SPACE-82281  2 812 82 --                                                                         60    5   3   S 5        3--         2    13  1313818384 --               66    6     80 6        4-       -29
PM" UNIT REMA1L8P68-5  1281212 812 --                                                                             S3    2     3S S55 5--               23    58313        8 3 8t4 --        so    2   6 6        4 4--           25 
5140288818As1*8t.81                     .8                                                    1 8 3     --                9 8 6 6 9--                   2     3 1 8 8 1--I                    5     90      6 8 8--0
PO888tOOaS    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~- - -                      - -2 2   2 2   2 --                              t8    8    88    8    8--            4    2   2 2 2   2 --                St    8   3   8   1    8-  
S.4,-lots) OFFICE 388q0 62  2722  2                                                                                  2      22 --1928 128282             5    21  20   030 31   --           48      911323813813    --6
lata8 OEcClS300 Costs                                                                  28      too 06688       2  2  42234424343 438                     1 9288   219816210          888882238$1  3344 4i,0498 1   1
tstal                                                             292~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M15S 20  240 220   2  281t.8 'V   710822 8 4   66 t 8 I849 309la   2872624Ž2462   83 125  8.422941184 to?           837 4
tnt for veNeWs inclufo.        a. a.  t. oa f. o   of  ntsa   anto.on.. 2f  a te.a..fora    n.oo off".ao   a.  f



m  at OC00009a -t                            WA9060919091 000 -tIt o -                         00                   01 - 9             10 90 09b60106oz                      -                                                                                                        91.
r9  El   is 00a1t-   -  -   0                         9009fit0IS 0It       - --    LET *K   a000    -  -  -   siOt    0011ot 5s00-   -  -                                                                                                                          SLSO3 ON330m 09109
cn   'T         t      --    -           -                    -- -              -                   --.    -- 0.-: -..-                -        a     0      -- .       0-       ---004
a   :   to o~~t-               -     -    o   a   ax    a  -  -  -    t a                       I   00-                   --           a    I;    a                                             ---- --                   -                       *oldsSuvOSIO
Z..o  oa    oo                              -            oa.a-s  I I    I     -    *           01    o           0    0               -     ba     t oa      I    I-                                                            - . . .SI PSI    ml
.10j.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     flS t t  lti s s       t 1    C  T3ai" I o N s
z ~a     CT    9             9    0 --                 oS t Z      t 06        9 ---                  o    aEa                                                   -           -     -    -    -      -o-a-s- - ----9Mm                                                        a-oM Ito  19151-0
E        1      1                                      0        06           9 -               0       £ 0                0        -                 a      a                                     1 9-                                                                              1f3101A 0
~~o    oaazooo  -    -    -  000   a.t9o000  -    -    -    00    *osocla             ~~~~~~~~~-  - ---  t---   - --  --  - ---    - -    --    -..-1131109
*     a    a                   a at o                                   --           -   e        1     1     1     1t  - -       -   ae    a                     -    -    -      I    at   a    P    0           0z --          -    oh                              SM~34117
ot    9           0 0-  -   -0 0 10-0-- oIt9IT                                                                            -             0 0 6 9 9 9 o  o     o    - - - -    -                  I         --  -00 1 * 0     -    -      6  asO
0   11- - - -0   a… … … …0   11 -                  -          -0  00- - - -000    II…off                                                                                                                 $036000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ue IIK
0O    0St      -       -       -       -04           00     …       …       …       … 0 Ot-                                     -     9 0-…                   …       …      … 0                a C  t        - - Ca-1 18 6    - - -                        N        IS1*116t0I0 43 '
0  1 1- - - -0   00… … … …~~~~~~~                                                                 ~          ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~ II  - -    -  - as-- -moat                                                                                          0 SS0
it   069                                    60   9o  1.0*1                         -   t 01090 -                                   -a  00  Oalta                                   000   £1090c- --   co                                                        lOnwm'0a00
C't   t  t    I    -     -     -     -     -                    "M~~~~S~oaS    OXY0 ~
a                 0 9-           -    -      at    CZ   o1   a          -    -    -       0Z      0 0 0 9-                                        i    6      --    - oat  a    a    so   -    -    -                                          ±9ON4full 016 M1M30,  a"L-'
O      - - -         1     - - -                        O -  -          -- -        -    -    - a                     -    -          e- 0    -     -    -     0     -    -         1    0                -    -           -    -      ONV06U                    /W f 0000355
;N   bE   VI  Of   LIZ  M   001  06   Et  6U    k    E?   Ot   SE   El  ?CS   RI StfU    18   OE                                                                                       SISW  IRNIS301 140100061000  SOOOJIS 3055 
1      Iq   t   0 . 00-          -    -     0                1    50-I       -    -       01I  O-    00L    6    -    -    -          OKO -    0       I    tOC                                 -     -    -                    --    -    -                         1OsooV±116-4
0       I   O     9O       -    -        et          1    I I  S- 0                                     0     0 ---                0     -1         1    a -    -    - Pt I I I00acWI0  ISZ                                                                      OS    WI10OL04
II - - -01-  ~~~- --6-   ----6--- --00---- --00--- 
00---  0 a--  -  -                                                                        6t--- 4 00   -        6-             --           0---                  0-  --    00                  --             -0-  --   -                                         S3010109003910
0     -    01         0     --              0  9      0 0           1 1.-.-               0    -     00         *                      00       09        9      --                                   -    -    -     -    - -                                  1        V3313  9O 0-0N2
*  I    1~~1                     0       - 0 0 0 -                -    -      0it    -    01t1-- -                                           0                  -                    -1     -       -      -    -    -      Ott                                013031
9i                    *                     0         -       --    --z t  C  -                              0        -    -            --E  I         -     I    -    -    -                                                                                      SNI0-0001#13900±0
------   --  --    --- ---.                               …60..   -----  --t--                                      ----  - -       0--- --- --9-9---  ---
90    -    -   ~~~0    - 90            9     -            0 - E                     90 -        -       0-     00-    -         09     - I        I               -    --A0-0-'-4-a,-9-04025fl000
0t   -     -    - o 6 0   -     -    -      00    10-  0-60                                               - 6 - 0 00-          -   -  09   -000        -0001        -    -                                                                           flatlOtSS0 1031014301419-
00    -66             o               .     Z.    a     00       Z:1    -    -    -        0 0 0             0 9-                        - 691          - 00   0 -    -    -    009                I -       -    -C      - -   -      ONt   s0ooa099o0o1o3±±
3301iv ISISS   1310   '9
-- ----   ----------------------- ---------                                                                           ----    --                 ----- ----                             -
~~*3~~ j~            $~~tStt*1603~~        -    -:t  -                        t $t    -            -50               Z    Zt  Z00                     9ttSl                             --anOOSM4
~~6ttoO9.01~~~~~~003 0tIa0--    I                                                                -                                      aall Z s19200ziv
6  00    iz   oz   oz   61   -           -     -  of    a    0  0    a    -           -~~~~30000  -111  19   LI  LT   i 100*0303.04110161Ir'
---     ----  - --  ----     - --     ----     - .     ....     .. -       ...      ...



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
HALAUI
SHALUDLER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Disbursement 89 Financier BO Semester
(USS '000)
Gov. of
IDA   IFAD  BENEFICIARIES NALAUI Total
Aount Amount        Amount Amount Amount
Semester
1           101   169              -      60    330
2           101   169              -      60    330
3           240   276             14      73    603
4           240   276             14      73    603
5           464   518             15    107   1010l
6           464   518             15    107   1,104
7            .    625             16    116   1q29(.
8           539   625             16    116  12906
9           524   613             18    122   1,278
10           524   613            1V    122  1,278
11           454   517             20    113   lflOS
12           454   517             20    113  1.105
13           639   718             21    107   1.485
14           639   718             21    107   1.485
Total             5,925 6872             210   1,396 14,403
--~~~= - -----------------------------_=z



-                             MALASI
SIALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financing Plan bi Project Comonents
(US$ '000)
IDA        IFAD      BENEFICIARIES  609). OF 1MLAVI    Total                 Local
(Excl. Duties I
Aount Z  Amount              nt A        Aount  Z ount      Aount  X   For, Exch. Taxes)  Taxes
A. INCREIENTAL SNAWLLHU  CREDIT    59139  47   5P139  47        210   2        535    5   11#024  77         8t373   2r651        -
B. INSTITUTIOAL BUILDING              786 32    786  32           -   -        861   35   2,432   17         1,495    928         9
Co PILOT CREDIT SIENE                   -  -    947 100            -   -         -    -       947   7          483    464         -
Total Disbursement                   5925  41   69872  48         210   1    19396    15  14,403  100        10,351   4.043        9
=:S== ==2 -------  =X--=--_==      =2=2==   2=_   _2= =



-64 -              ~ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
SMAIJIOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Operations of the Central Credit Fund (SCF)l/
1.        Start-up.  The Central Credit Fund would  commence operations on
October 1, 1987, concurring with the beginning of its financial year.
2.        Pooling of Resources.  On October 1, 1987 all assets and
liabilities of the now existing ADD/RDP credit funds would be transferred
to and taken over by the SCF. Before closing the accounts for the year
ending September 30, 1987, ADDs would create provisions to adequately cover
bad and doubtful debts, in accordance with guidelines to be issued by
SACA. This would ensure that reasonably sound and collectible loan
portfolios and other assets are taken over by the SCF,
3.        Audit,  Financial Statements (Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss
Accounts) of existing ADD credit funds for the year ending September 30,
1987 would be audited by the Auditor-General of GOM.
4.        ADD Bank Accounts.  As the credit system would remain
decentralized, ADDs would continue maintaining separate bank accounts in
the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) and in branches of commercial banks for
their credit operations.
5.        Transfer of Funds with RBM.  On October 1, 1987, ADDs would
transfer from their respective accounts with RBM all monies exceeding
MK1O,000 in each account ("the maximum balance") to account No. 228 of SCF
(or to any other account designated by SCF).
6.        SCF Accounts.  SCF would maintain for each ADD a "capital fund
account" and a "current loan account".  The capital fund account would show
the amount of capital and accumulated profits which was transferred to the
SCF on October 1, 1987; any future withdrawals of resources from various
donors under on-going area-specific projects (allocated to credit
operations) would be recorded in the respective ADD capital fund account.
These sub-accounts would provide a continuous and permanent record on the
contribution of each ADD to the SCF Capital Fund, and would serve as a
source of information for preparing periodic reports and/or withdrawal
applications to donor agencies for area-specific projects.
1/ Detailed operational guidelines are described in Working Paper No. 1.



- 65 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
7.        SCF Capital Fund.  SCF Capital Fund (SCF's equity) would consist
of ADDs' capital funds (para 6) transferred to the SCF on October 1, 1987,
any future withdrawals of credit funds under area-specific projects and the
SCF net income accumulating as from October 1, 1987.
8.        ADD Current Loan Account.  As from October 1, 1987, ADDs would
"borrow" funds from the SCF to finance their assets relating to credit
operations (loan portfolio, stocks and other assets). These borrowings
would be recorded by SCF in the current loan account of each ADD. Current
loan accounts would bear interest of 3% p.a. calculated on daily balances.
This interest charge would not affect SCF's gross or net income and is done
for cost-accounting purposes only, to monitor in a consistent manner the
financial performance and results of each ADD's credit operations and to
provide an indicator for calculating the average loan repayment periods and
the resulting effective interest rate charged by each ADD on its lending.
The balance outstanding in each ADD's current loan account, at any time,
would be equivalent to the amount of total assets (loan portfolio, cash
balances in bank accounts, stocks, etc.) less liabilities (ADMARC,
fertilizer fund and other sundry liabilities).
9.        ADD Balance Sheets.  ADD would prepare internal balance sheets
and profit and loss accounts for their credit operations, which would be
co-nsolidated by SACA to reflect the financial position and results of the
SCF and the national smallholder credit system.
100       ADD Lending Operations.  ADDs would operate according to lending
programs approved annually by MOA. Approval of a lending program would
also constitute the authorization to withdraw from the SCF (Account No.
228) all the funds required for its implementation. Loan collections would
be deposited by ADDs in their respective accounts with commercial banks
(and/or Post Office Savings Bank) and transferred expeditiously to the ADD
accounts with RBM. RBM would automatically transfer funds from ADD
accounts to Account No. 228 of SCF, in multiples of MK1O,000 (the "maximum
balance" - see para 5). Similarly, RBM would automatically transfer funds
from Account No. 228 to ADDs' accounts to cover amounts withdrawn by ADDs
for loan disbursements. Accounts for ADD credit operations would be
maintained by ADDs.
11.       Withdrawal of Funds from Donors.  Credit funds eligible for
withdrawal under on-going area-specific development projects would be
withdrawn, in accordance with terms and conditions stipulated in the
respective credit agreements, before withdrawals of funds under the Project
(also para 6).
12.       Payment of Administrative Expenditures.  MOA/SACA would approve,
annually, administrative budgets for ADDs' credit operations. All credit
staff would remain on the payroll of MOA and ADDs/MOA would continue paying
salaries and allowances in accordance with current GOM procedures. ADDs
and MOA would maintain separate records showing the gross amounts paid to
credit staff. SACA would make lump-sum reimbursements to MOA, in two
annual installments, payable by March 31, before the close of GOM fiscal
year and September 30, before closing SCF annual accounts. Other
credit-related administrative expenditures would either be paid directly by
ADDs/SACA or reimbursed to MOA in accordance with above procedures.



- 66 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
13.       SCF Financial Statements.  SCF income statements would comprise
all interest, finance and other charges earned by ADDs and additional
income generated by SCF (interest paid by RBM on Account No. 228 and on
time-deposits in commercial banks, etc.). Expenditures would include
interest paid to MOF on credit funds provided under the Project, cost of
administration of the credit system - provisions, depreciation, training
expenditures, etc. SCF Financial Statements would be audited annually by
the Auditor General of GOM, or by other qualified auditors acceptable to
IDA/IFAD.



- 67 -                                ANNEK 5
Table I
SMALYUIER ANRCULIURAL CREDIT PF1JE
Pr jected kAual leixIi  Program             ADD:
DM: March 31, 1987
Period October 1, 1987 - Septenber 30, 1988
Actual   Provisional  Increase  Projected  Increase
1985/86     1986/87    (2):(1)    1987/88   (4):(2)
(1)         (2)         (3)        (4)        (5)
A. Seasonal Creit
1. Total loans a/         No.
2. Total disbursewmnts b/ v
3. Clubs financed         No,
(3a + 3b)
3a = existing dubs   bb.
3b - nw clubs         No.
4. Borrw*g mnbers          ND.
5. Average nibers/club   No.
(4:3)
6. Average loan/club      MK
(1:3)
7. Average loan/mwber    MK
(1:4)
8. Collection rate C/
8a = as at 9-30-86    %
8b = as at 3-31-87    %
Actual    Estinated                        X
Actual    Plan    10-1-86 -  04-1-87 -  Total  Projected  Increase
1985/86   1986/87  03-1-86     9-30-87  (3)+(4)  1987/88   (6):(5)
(1)      (2)        (3)       (4)        (5)      (6)       (7)
B. Mediun-Term Credit
9. Total investnent costs MK
10. Total loans d/        M
11. Nuiber of borrowers
(lla+ lib)
lla - individuals    ND.
llb - clubs e/       No.
12. Average loan/orrower
(10:11)               w
13. Collection rate f/    %
(B:A)
al Includig interest/service  harge.
b/ Value of inputs paid/payable.
c/ For 1985/86 loans only.
d/ Total loans equal investnent costs (9) less borMWars' own contribution (principal only).
e/ Clubs hawe been  ncluded, as it is proposed that, Di the future loans for on-fam iawesrnts be also
made to clubs purasirg equipwnt, tools, etc., for cmmmal use by its members.
f/ To be calcuace  as follow: A = werdues (principal and interest) as of October 1, 1985 plus
installments fallen due betwen October 1, 1985 and September 30, 1986. B = anmunt collected durlg
October 1, 1985 - Septenber 30, 1986 (principal and interest).



SM1U1ER AqIaXaVRAL awDIT PRWECr
Crop R              and Fertiizer Practices
local Maize   Composite    Ryild    Tobacoo  0ottcxn   Rice    Rice   G'rmts   G'tts    Sorgi/  Bears   Otber
Total  Pure St 1 crop   Mize           Mize       NDi'F           B'bomet  Fava  Ch'bnar    M'pintar    MIllet   Rllses
Pure St Pure St
rotal CltivatedArea    1,48a    833   171          30           89         45       45       15        7      60         15         60       30       89
Percent (1986)          100      56    11         2            6           3       3        1        1        4         1          4         2       6
Seed (kg)                        25/ _            sb/         25           C/      C/      70       63      90         65
Fertilizer (kg)
N                               39              82           92          92               83       62                            4(d/      40
P205                                            30           40          40               20       21                            4(A/      40
Plant Protection
Storae                           Actallic 40gJ90 kg grain                         Actellic 40g/90 kg grain
cc
Pests/Dleasw                     Sevin (Arny wDrm 85g in 14 1 water)            SeeAn ard                 Daconil 4 tins 120-16% 
and Diptetex (Stalborer 8kg/ha) as required    Dizthoate e/              in 10-15 litres water
Field Practices f/
Fertilier (kg)
N                               22   27         37           40          41               60       n/a                           n/a       n/a
P205                             5    6          12          15          17
% Area Fertilized       23       22   22         55           85          77               n/a
Z Area Usinig Inpits
Obtained on Credit g/ 22       18   18         44           68          62       57      16        8       20        4          5         1
a/ Own seed.
b/ Every tird year
c/ Freeseed wjodedby MDA
dl Irve varieties for br&Xg  only.                                                                                                                 .
eR Rates re 124 (65g) sadscts Sevin, 62 (92g) DTr and 13 (34g) Dimetboate
f/ Average of 1983/84 and 1984/85 ASA figures.
AsZmEtions for mlnor crops. Other crops from ASA or credit data 184/85. Figure for grosiuts in 1985186 figure.



- 69 -                                           ANNEX 6
Table 2
MAUWI
S4W4Ui1LDM A,CULIURAL aCEDIr PPRECf
Yields and Fertilizer rEn
Best Estimate            Increase Due to
ASA a/           MOA Iri  Fi                           Fert.                L%roN
Unfert.  Fert.  Average  Unfert.       Fert.  Unfer.  Fert.  and IP b/  Fert. c/  practices d
Ical maize
Pure staid          900    1,385   1,075    850           1,250    900   1,252   1,500       352            248
Intercropped (all)   765    1,450     963      -              -    765   1,305   1,450       540            145
Intercropped (pulses)  -       -   1,080       -              -    860   1,400   1,600       540            200
Hybrid maize         979    2,695   2,545        -         3,000   1,000   2,260   2,800   1,260             540
Conposite           1,244    1,870    1,680     -          1,800   1,000   1,834   2,200      814            386
ITbacco (NDDF)         -        -      475      -            420    300      423     525      123            102
Groundnts (pure stand)
Chalimbana          628*       -      628*   450              -    450        -       -       -               -
Manipintar          599*        -     599*   600              -    600        -       -        -              -
Rice
Blue bormt            -             1,891*      -         2,500   1,000       -   2,500       -           1,500
Faya                  -        -    1,81(0     -          1,750   n.a.        -    n.a.       -            n.a.
Cotton               806*       -      806*   650              -    650        -
Source: ASA 1983/84 and M4)A 1984/85.
a/ Average 1983/84 - 1984/84.
b/  Iproved practices (early planting, weedirg twice, once fertilized except for hybrid maize twice fertilized).
c/ See next section.
d/ Early planting, weedit%, etc.
* Wide variation.



9W1HI   PQLAm uuL cerr PRoJE
Wmi   omp &xget arnd Gmss Argims - Costant 1987 MK
With and Without Fertilizer
Local Maize  Pire Stand  Lcal Maize  (Intercaped)  Camposite Maze           lEA           H1brid Maize - NHI 12
Unfert.    Fertilied    Unfert.        Fertilzed       Under-Fert.    Fertilized    Urder-Fert.   Fertilzd
Yield (kg/ha)           900.00       1,500.00      765.00        1,450.00         1,750.00       3,000.00       2,000.00      3,500.00
Prime (t/kg)             12.00         12.22        12.22          12.22             12.22          12.22          12.22         12.22
Pulses yield (kgAha)                               190.00         210.00
Pulses - Price (t/kg)                               40.00          40.00
Total         109.98         183.30      169.48         261.19            213.85         366.60         244.40        427.70
,osts
Seed                      4.19          4.19        13.35          13.35            12.50           12.50          31.50        31.50
Fertilizer - N            0.00         56.94         0.00          56.94            58.40          119.72          65.70        134.32
FertiUlzer - P            0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00             9.00           18.00          12.00        24.00
Sprayers                  0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00             0.00            8.51           0.00        12.04
Trarsport                 1.35          2.25         1.15           2.18             1.50            3.30           1.50         4.20
t aneot (5%)       0.28          3.17         0.73           3.62              4.07           8.10           5.54         10.30
Total           5.82          66.55       15.23          76.09             85.47         170.13         116.24        216.36
Gross Margin            104.16        116.75       154.26         185.10            128.38         196.47         128.17       211.34
No. of mmulays          113.00        119.00       138.00         145.00            130.00         142.00         135.00        153.00
Retunm per aiday          0.92          0.98         1.12           1.28             0.99            1.38           0.95          1.38



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Table 4
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Groundnuts and Cotton: Crop Budgets and Gross Margins -
With and Without Fertilizer
Chalimbana             Manipintar                 Cotton
Unfert.    Fert.       Unfert.    Fert.        Unfert.    Fert.
Income
Yield kg/ha a/              450         473          600        630         650      1,293
Price t/kg b/             75.00       75.00        58.00     58.00       65.00      65.00
Total MK          337.50      354.38       348.00    365.40       422.50    840.45
;'sts MK
Seed                     67.50       67.50         38.50      38.50       -          -
Sprayer c/                 -           -            -          -         156.00    297.00
Trasnport                  1.13        1.18         0.15       0.15        3.25      6.47
Miscellaneous (5%)         3.43        3.43         1.93       1.93        7.96      15.17
Total Cost         72.06       72.12        40.58      40.58      167.21    318.64
Number of mandays           206         206          175        175         240        285
Return
Gross margin             265.44      282.26       307.42    324.82      255.29    521.81
Return per manday          1.29        1.37         1.76       1.86        1.06       1.83
a/ Assumes that improved seed results in a 5% increae in groundnut yields.
b/ Weighted by grades.
cI Includes sprayer cost. It is assumed that 67% of the recomemnded pest control
treatment is applied compared to 50% at present.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Table 5
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Tobacco (NDDF): Crop Budgets and Gross Margins
With and Without Fertilizer
Unfertilized a/         Fertilized
Revenue
Yield kg/ha                      300                   525
Price t/kg                       137.10                107.10
Gross revenue (MK)               321.30                562.28
Costs (MK)
Seed                               _
Nursery costs                     17.50                 17.50
Fertilizer                         -                   129.39
Spray                              -                     -
Transport                          9.00                 15.75
Miscellaneous at 5%                 1.33                 8.13
Total Cost                   27.83                170.77
Number of mandays                325                   425
Return
Gross margin                     293.48                391.50
Return per manday                  0.90                  0.92
a/ Unfertilized yield and no improved practices.



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Table 6
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Traditional Dairy Cows Activity Budget
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Capital Costs
Cows a/                             250         -         -         -
Khola                                 50
Dairy equipment b/                    30
Other at 5%                           17
Total                          347         -         -         -
Operating Costs
Madea c/                              30       30        30        30        30
Salt                                  10       10        10        10        10
Other at 5%                            2        2         2         2         2
Total                           42        42        42       42        42
Revenue
Milk d/                              125      125       125       125       125
Net Income                         -264        83        83        83        83
IRR              >50%
NPV at 12%        473
a/  Sale value of Zebu.
b/  Bucket.
c/  300 kg at lOt/kg.
d/  500 litres per cow per year at 25t/litre.  Assumed young stock sales
replacement of dairy cows.



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Table 7
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Improved Dairy Cows Activity Budget
Residual
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6           Value
Capital Costs
Crossbred cows 8/         350         -         -         -        -         -       -125
lIand sprayer               80                            -        -         -          -
Khola                      125        -         -         -        -         -          -
Dairy equipment b/          70        _ -                 -        -         -          -
Pastures C/                60         -         -         -        -         -          -
Fencing                   250         -         -         -        -         -      -100
Other at 5%                 47        -         -         -        -         -          -
Total                982         -         -        -         -         -      -225
eratin  Costs
Madea a/                    87.5     87.5      87.5      87.5     87.5      87.5        -
Salt e/                     15       15        15        15       15        15          -
Vet., supplies, sprays    30         30        30        30       30        30          -
Insurance                   70       70        70       70        70        70          -
Fertilizer                 40        40        40        40       40        40          -
Other at 10%                33       33        33        33       33        33          -
Total                275.5    275.5    275.75   275.5    275.5    275,5           -
Revenue
Milk t/                    560      560       560       560      560       560          -
Net Income               -697.5    284.5    284.5    284.5    284.5    284.5          284.5
IRR                 50%
N"' at 12%       2,520
Fianncing of capital
farmers contribution      82
Loan receipt g/           990
Repayment h /                       268       268       268      268       268          -
Net Income after
financing                675       489       489      489       489       489         -
a/  Friesian x Zebu.
b/  Bucket (MK20) and milk churn (MK50).
c/ Two bags 20:20:0, 3 kg seed and labor.
d/ 1,750 kg per cow p.a. at lOt/kg.
el 35 kg per cow p.a.
f/  2,000 litres per year per cow at about 28t per litre.  Assuiaed young stock sales
cover replacement costs.
/  Two cows, handsprayer, equipment, fencing, pasture costs, and sprays less 10%
farmer contribution repaid over four years.
h/  Over 5 years at 15%.



- 75 -                               ANNEX 6
Table 8
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Activity Budget - Poultry (100 bird deep litter system)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7 +
Ca ital Costs
Shed a/                      80         -         -          -         -        -
Feeders, waterers b/        123         -         -          -         -         -
Pullets C/                  220         -         -          -         -        -
Tools, utensils              20         -         -          -         -         -
Deep litter                  10         -         -          -         -         -
Feed d/                     397         -         -          -         -         -
Other at 5%                  42         -         -          -         -
Total                  892         -         -         -         -         -
Operating Costs
Feed e,                     959    1,647    1,647        1,647    1,647    1,647   1,647
Vet., and medicines          15        15        15         15        15        15      15
Pullet repacement f/          -       150       150        150       150       150     150
Maintenance                  22        22        22         22        22        22      22
Other at 10%                100       183       183        183       183      183      183
Total                1,095    2,018    2,018       2,018    2,018    2,018   2,018
Revenue
Eggs g      h             1,268    2,145    2,145        2,145    2,145    2,145   2,145
Cull birds h1               235       235       235        235      235       235      235
Total                1,502    2,380    2,380       2,380    2,380    2,380   2,380
Net Income                 -485       362       362        362       362       362     362
IRR       30%
NPV at 12%   1,453
Financing
Farmers contribution i/   110 
Loan receipt                782         -                    -         -        -        -
Repayment at 15%                      233       233        233       233      233        -
Net income after
financing                  297       129       129        129       129      129      362
a/  Traditional shed with netting posts.
h/  Eight food troughs at  1K12.50 and 3 drinkers at MK7.50.
e/ 110 at Mk2.
d/ Growers mash (8-20 weeks) 700 kg at 37.2t/kg and layers mash (1 month) 384 kg at
35.5t for 90 birds.
e/  Year 1, 8 months layers mash (30 kg/bird) for 90 birds at 35.5t/kg.  Years 2 + 3
months growers mash (7.1 kg/bird) at 37.2t/kg for 67 birds and 46 kg lavers
mash/bird at 35.5t/kg.
f/  Every 18 months
g/  Ninety birds, 220 eggs per bird at MKI.30 per dazen.
/   WK3.50 each.
fl  Shed, deep litter, tools, and utensils.



- 76 -                             ANNEX 6
Table 9
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Activity Budget - Poultry (100 bird battery system)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7 +
Capital Costs
Cage                        600         -         -           -         -        -
Chicken wire a/              51         -         -           -        -         -
Feeders, waterers b/ -                                        -        -
Pullets C/                  220         -         -           -        -         -        -
Tools  utensisl               20         -         -          -         -        -        -
Feed A/                     397         -         -          -         -         -
Other at 5%                  67         -          -
Total                1,407         -         -          -         -         -        -
Operating Costs
Feed e/                     959    1,647    1,647        1,647    1,647    1,647   1,647
Vet., and medicine            20        20       20          20        20       20       20
Pullet repacement f/           -      150       150         150       150       150     150
Maintenance                   67       67        67          67       67        67       67
Other at 10%                 105       188      188         188       188      188      188
Total                :,150    2,073    2,073        2,073    2,073    2,073   2,073
Revenue
Eggs g/                   1,463    2,438    2,438        2,438    2,438    2,438   2,438
Cull birds h                235       235       235         235      235       235      235
Total                1,697    2,672    2,672        2,672    2,672    2,672   2,672
Net Income                 -861        599      599         599       599      599      549
IRR        50%
NPV at 12%   2,355
Financing
Farmiers contribution i/   211
Loan receipt              1 196          -                    -         -                 -
Repayment at 15%                      357       357        357       357       357        -
Net Income after
financing                  336       242       242        242       242       242      599
a/  20m chicken wire for rearing and laying hosue at MK2.55/m.
b/  Three food troughs at MK112.50 and 2 drinkers at MK7.50.
c/ 110 at MK2.
d/ Growers mash (8-20 weeks) 700 kg at 37.2t/kg and layers mash (1 month) 384 kg at
35.5t for 90 birds.
e/  Year 1, 8 months layers mash (30 kg/bird) for 90 birds at 35.5t/kg.  Years 2 + 3
months growers mash (7.1 kg/bird) at 37.2t/kg for 67 birds and 46 kg layers
mash/bird at 35.5t/kg.
f/  Every 18 months
g/  Ninety birds, 250 eggs per bird at M11(1.30 per dozen.
h/  MK3.50 each.
i/  Fifteen percent of capital costs.



- 77 -                       ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 9
MALAWI
SMALLJOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pilot Credit Scheme for the Landless
1.        The IFAD-financed Grameen Bank project in Bangladesh (GB) has
demonstrated that credit for income-generating economic activities can
be successfully channelled to rural poor and improve the economic base of
this target group. Inquiries were made during project preparation and
appraisal regarding the economic and social characteristics of the rural
population. 'he objective was to identify the size and nature of the
landless group, what potential economic activities might exist for them,
and what the prospects might be for their successful participation.
Furthermore, an assessment was made as to the possibility of replicating
GB model in the Malawian context, and whether existing institutional
arrangements could be used or a new ones created to operationalize the
scheme. Preliminary results indicated that there is a specific target
group which needs credit to engage in off-farm activities, on a self-
employment basis, and that there is scope for testing the GB approach in
Malawi. In light of the above, a pilot credit/savings scheme for the rural
landless and near-landless population, operating on the lines of GB, would
be included in the Project and would be implemented in two phases over a
seven-year period. The scheme would be financed by IFAD, partially an a
grant and credit basis.
Objectives and Rationale
2.        The objective of the Pilot Credit Scheme for the Rural Poor
(PCSP), to be known as the Malawi Mudzi Fund (MMF), would be to extend
banking facilities for lending and savings to the rural poor (men and
women) without collateral. Its aim would be to organize them through the
credit program so that they could become self-employed in activities of
their choice. Through an organizational structure, they would be exposed
to development opportunities which would lead to a higher standard of
living for themselves and their families.
3.        The rationale of the scheme rests on the fact that the rural
poor, being land poor in particular, and resource poor in general, do not
have adequate opportunities for employment and income. Their land does not
provide employment throughout the year and only generates one-third of
food requirements. They do attempt to use farming skills to increase
incomes when the opportunity arises, often in seasonal work, however, the
scope for their participation in land and non-land based activities is
limited because of the lack access to financial resources. Provided that
the poor have access to financial resources, they can create their own
employment opportunities to raise their living standard. The proposed
scheme would create facilities providing the poor with access to
institution&l credit. The beneficiaries would thus have the opportunity to



ANNEX 7
- 78 -                          Page 2 of 9
demonstrate that they are able to receive and pay back credit and in the
process create self-employment as a means to earning, spending, and saving
more. The farmers' club movement, under the NRDP, provides an encouraging
precedent and demonstrates the potential that exists in Malawi for group
activity, albeit generally among larger farmers than the pilot scheme would
serve. The scheme would aim at developing an organization among the rural
poor which, by the end of the scheme's period, would become a viable and
self-sustaining concern, setting an example for replication in other areas.
General Description
4.        The scheme would comprise the following components for which
financing would be provided under the Project.
(a) Establishment and staffing of a small Scheme Management
Unit;
(b) A study and preparatory surveys to determine the locations
of the branch units;
(c) Establishment and staffing of two branch units (Phase I) and
two additional branch units in Phase II;
(d) Staff training programs including overseas training for
senior level staff, and local training for all staff and
scheme beneficiaries;
(e) Establishment of a revolving credit fund to finance lending
operations for the target beneficiaries;
(f) Technical assistance, including expatriate consultants, to
assist in implementation of the scheme, training, and in
monitoring and evaluation, including a mid-term review and
evaluation of the pilot scheme.
Detailed Features
5.        (a)  Management Unit.  The management unit would Comprise the
Scheme Administrator (SA), an accountant, secretary and
service staff (driver and messenger). One 4-WD vehicle
would be provided for the SA.
(b) Preparatory Surveys. Surveys, funded by the Project, would
be undertaken to determine the locations of the branch units
and the socio-economic characteristics of the target
beneficiaries. The initial survey would be conducted in the
Southern Region where population density is high and the per
capita availability of arable land is the lowest. This
region is also considered the most suitable for Phase I
because of its proximity to the urban center of Blantyre and
the associated diversity of economic activities. This
survey would be carried cut by the Bunda College of
Agriculture (Center of Social Studies) or another suitable
organization, assisted by a qualified consultant familiar
with GB operations.



- 79 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 9
(e)  Branch Un'.ts.  Each branch unit to be established would be
staffed wiith a branch manager, a bookkeeper, four bank
workers and a messenger/guard. Motorcycles would be
provided for branch managers and bicycles for branch staff.
Each branch is expected to serve 1,000 borrowers, organized
in about 200 groups (following the GB concept). Branches
would provide credit to group members and also engage in
linked schemes for group savings and risk insurance.
(d) Training and Staff Development. The Scheme Administrator
and the managers of the first two branches would be sent to
Bangladesh to familiarize themselves with GB operating
systems and procedures and to participate in induction
courses conducted by GB. The SA and the two branch managers
would form the core staff for Phase I of the pilot scheme
and carry out local training programs for other staff and
beneficiariese Local training would also be supplemented by
expatriate consultants from time to time.
(e) Credit Fund. The lending targets for each of the four
branch units to be established is 1,000 borrowers with loans
averaging MK200 per beneficiary. The Project would provide
financing for the creation of a revolving credit fund, up to
MK800,000.
Costs
6.        Total cost of the Pilot Credit Scheme, including physical and
price contingencies, taxes and duties, is estimated at MK2.2 million
(US$0.9 million), with a foreign exchange component of US$1.1 million or
51%. Technical assistance accounts for 11%, training for 4%, vehicles and
equipment 8%, preparatory study/survey 2%, recurrent costs 41% and Credit
Funds 34%.  The cost estimates are based on June, 1987 prices and include
taxes and duties computed at MK0.034 million.  Price increases for the
foreign cost components are assumed to be 3% for 1987, 1% for the years
1988-1990, and 3.5% per year thereafter. Local costs are expected to
increase at the rate of 15% in 1987, 12% in 1988, 9% in 1989, 7% in 1990
and 6% per year thereafter. Detailed Project costs are given in Annex 3.
Financing
7.        The financing for the Pilot Scheme components of the Project
would be as follows:
Procurement
8.        Procurement would be in accordance with IDA/IFAD procurement
guidelines as summarized in para 3.26. Overseas training would be arranged
in consultation and agreement with IFAD.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 9
Disbursement of Project Funds
9.        Project funds would be disbursed by IFAD to GOM.  MOF would
transfer Project funds to WIF through OPC, as budgetary allocations, in
accordance with terms and conditions of a subsidiary financing agreement to
be signed between MOF and MMF. The execution of a subsidiary financing
agreement, satisfactory to IDA/IFAD between MOF and MMF, would be a
condition of disbursement of this component and an assurance of this would
be sought during negotiations. A special account for the sch3'me in foreign
exchange would be established with the Reserve Bank of Malawi (or a
commercial bank as shall be agreed upon with IFAD). Funds would be paid to
that special account in advance by IFAD for purposes of the schieme,
according to terms to be agreed upon with IFAD, with respect either to
grant or loan resources. Reimbursement by IFAD to the special account
would be on presentation of statements of account of expenditure from
earlier advances and budget estimates. In that case, documentation would
be held available for IFAD's examination upon request. Any reimbursement
to the Government for direct expenditure would be against full
documentation. Disbursements of the proposed grant would be against
budgetted Phase I expenditure until such time as Phase II becomes effective
when it would be disbursed against both Phase T and Phase II expenditures.
Loan funds would be approved once the grant resources are fully disbursed.
Organization and Management
10.       Implementation of the pilot scheme would not be linked to SACA
and the SCF. The scheme would be implemented by a separate legal entity
(not a parastatal ) established specifically for this purpose to be known
as the Malawi Mudzi Fund (MMF). The MMF would be constituted independent
of the Government, except insofar as determined by a subsidiary agreement
with the Government. The establishment of MMF, satisfactory to IDA/IFAD,
would be a condition ',f disbursement for this component. An assurance on
this would be sought during negotiations. The initiative for introducing
the pilot scheme was taken by GOM through the Office of the President and
Cabinet (OPC) and OPC would maintain overall supervision and control over
its implementation. For this purpose, a committee, to be chaired by a
senior official from OPC, and comprising representatives from the
Ministries of Community Services and Agriculture and other interested
Government departments and agencies, would be appointed by COM and act as a
supervisory/advisory body in all matters relating to implementation of the
scheme and its financing. The appointment of the supervisory/advisory
committee, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA/IFAD, would be a
condition of disbursement for this component.
11.       The Scheme Administrator (para 6.04 (a)) would be the chief
executive of the MMF and would be responsible for the day-to-day
implementation of the pilot scheme, and report to the committee mentioned
above, through its chairman. The SA would prepare detailed operational
guidelines for lending and savings activities, accounting and general
administration to be applied by MMF and its branches. The SA would also
establish effective reporting and management information systems. The
appointment of a suitably qualified scheme administrator, satisfactory to
IDA/IFAD, would be a condition of disbursement of this component.



- 81 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 9
Lending Policies
12.       Credit would be provided from the revolving fund (para 6.04 (e))
to the target beneficiaries9 without collateral, for any income-generating
economic activity. Loans would be repayable in weekly installments over 50
weeks and would bear interest of not less than 15% p.a. or such other
interest rates as would be established from time to time for credits for
on-farm investments (para 4.07). Over and above the interest charges,
levies would be made to cover linked group savings and risk insurance
schemes. Assurances on the lending policies would be sought during
negotiations.
Staffing and Office Accommodations
13.       For the period of implementation of the pilot scheme, all staff
appointments would be on a temporary and fixed-term basis. Offices of MMF
and branch units would be located in rented premises.
Accounts and Audit
14.       The MMF would maintain separate accounts for the management unit
and its branches, including balance sheets and profit and loss account and
would be responsible for preparing consolidated annual financial statements
for the MMF. MMF would have its annual financial statements and those
relating to Project funds audited by independent qualified auditors,
acceptable to IDA/IFAD and submit the audited statements (together with
such other information as IDA/IFAD may reasonably request) and the
auditor's report, not later than six months from the end of the MMF
financial year. An assurance on the above would be sought during
negotiations.
GOM's Budgetary Support
15.       Finarcing required for implementation of the pilot scheme,
inexcess of funds allocated under the Project (para 6.08), would be
provided by GOM and transferred to MMF as budgetary allocations. Interest
income from lending operations generated by MMF would accumulate in the
revolving credit fund to preserve the value of the fund. An assurance on
the above would be sought during negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
16.       The Scheme Administrator would be responsible for monitoring
implementation of the pilot scheme and for regular reporting to the
chairman of the supervisory committee and to IDA/IFAD. Baseline data would
be collected in the initial survey and a data base would be built up during
implementation which would provide detailed information required for
evaluating performance, results and impact. A full mid-term evaluation
would be carried out during the third year of implementation and would be
completed not later than December 31, 1990. An assurroce would be sought
during negotiations that the mid-term review would be completed by the
above date. Decision on initiating Phase II would be based on the results
of this mid-term evaluation. In Year 6 of the scheme, it would be further
evaluated as a means of determining its future and initiating plans for its



- 82 -                          ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 9
continuation beyond the Project term or otherwise taking action as shall be
decided. The principal issues that would be addressed in the evaluation
process are: (i) the performance of borrowers' groups and credit
beneficiaries; (ii) the impact of credit on employment and income of
beneficiaries; and (iii) the cost of the credit delivery system and whether
the MMF has the potential of becoming financially viable anA
self-sustaining.
Risks
17,       Principle risks involved in undertaking this experimental pilot
scheme are considered to be as follows:
(a) Ability to locate a coordinator with the interest and the
capability to motivate and inspire both the staff and the
borrower.
(b) Willingness and ability of field staff to organize and
supervise the groups.
(c) Level of entrepreneurship emerging within the groups. There
obviously are entrepreneurs in Malawi's rural communities;
the question is how many there are and how to identify them.
(d) Replication of the approach in a sufficiently integrated
form without excessively compromising the original concept.
(e) Giving the pilot scheme a proper priority to assure a
thorough and objective test.
These risks would be minimized by the relatively small size of the proposed
pilot scheme and by phased approach in implementation. IFAD would finance
100% of the budgetted scheme Phase I costs (Table ,) on grant terms and
100% of Phase II costs on loan terms. The funding would be according to a
financing agreement between the Government and the MMF satisfactory to
IFAD. The funds would be passed to the MMF on grant terms on conditions
that shall be defined in the financing agreement.
Agreements to be Reached and Recommendation on the Pilot Credit Scheme for
the Rural Poor
18.       Financing of the Pilot Scheme would be subject to separate grant
and credit agreement between GOM and IFAD. Assurances would be sought
during negotiations on the following:
During Project Implementation
(a) lending terms and conditions as specified in para 4.07 would
be followed;
(b) the commercial interest rate structure as described in para
4.09 would be followed;



- 83 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 9
(c) reporting, accounting, and auditing requirements would be
observed (para 4.20); and
(d) a full mid-term evaluation would be carried out during the
third year of implementation and would be completed by
December 31, 1990 (para 4.21).
19.       The following would be condition of disbursements:
(a) establishment of a special account (para 3.28);
(b)  establ'shment of separate legal entity (MMF), satisfactory
to IDA/IFAD (para 4.04);
(c) appointment of a supervisory/advisory committee, with terms
and refernece satisfactory to IDA/IFAD (para 4.04);
(d) appointment of the scheme administrator satisfactory to
IDA/IFAD (para 4.04); and
(e)  the extension of a subsidi.ry financing agreement between
MOF and OPC/MMF satisfactory to IDA/IFAD (para 4.04).
20.       Subject to agremeent reached on the above, the Pilot Scheme is
suitable for IFAD credit/grant of US$       (SDR     million), on IFAD
standard termA to the Government of Malawi.



- 84 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 9
MALAWI
SNALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sumaarv Accounts bi Year
(KUACHA '000)
Base Costs                         Foreign Exchange
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_      -----------  _    _ _
1987   1998   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993  Total        Z    Amount
T. INVESTMENT COSTS
A, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                           276    483    345      92      -      -      -   1,196     90.0    1,076
B. VEHICLES                                       266      -      -    210       -     86    210     772    100.0      772
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPHENT                    100      -      -      X0      -      -     50     200     80.0      16(0
D. TRAINING
OVERSEAS (NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES) TRAINING      161    161    161    161       -      -      -     644    100.0      644
LOCAL TRAINING                                 237    237    247    247    247    247    107   1.569      20.8      326
Sub-Total TRAINING                                398    398    408    408    247    247    107   2,213      43.8      970
E. PILOT CREDIT StHENE                            305    160    239    373    377    258    315   2,027      51.0    1,034
F. INCREMENTAL CREDIT
SEASONAL CREDIT                                  -    894  3,095  3r707  4,016  39114  4s412  19,238      75.0   14,429
MEDIUN-TERM CREDIT                               -    600    639    679    762    822    833   4.335      80.0    3.468
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL CREDIT                        -  1,494  3,734  4s386  4,778  3.936  5,245 23s573       75.9   17,897
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                             1.345  2s535  4,726  5.519  5,402  4,527  5,927  29,981      73.1   21,908
1I, RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES I UAGES                         53     53     53     53      53     53     53     370      0.0        0
B. VEHICLES OSN                                   20     20     20      20     20     20     20     140     70.0       9l:
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES I ADHINI. EXPENSES             26     26     26      26     26     26     26     182     24.6       45
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                 99     99     99     99      99     99     99     692     20.6      143
Total BASELINE COSTS                                19443  2s634  4.825  5.618  5,500  4,626  6,026  30,672      71.9   22,051
Phvsical Contingencies                              52     74      70     72    50      58     60     436     74.0      32.
Price Contingencies                                 22      64    184    272    328    400    747  2,018      71.1    1,434
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 1,518  2,772  5.078  5.962  5,879  5,084  6,833  33.126      71.9   23.808
==::=_ :__=:: :=:_:: _=:_:= ===_== =Z====_ .-==:= ==_::=_  ==__:=2 _==_:===z
Taxes                                                3      3      3       3      3      3      3      20      0.0        0
Foreign Exchange                                 1.040  2.003  3,679  4t328  4,142- 36596  5,019  23.808       0.0        0
-       --- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- ---  ----  --- --- ----  --- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- --- ----  - -- --- ---



HALAUI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Suamarv Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                           Totals Including Contingencies
(KWACHA '000)                                              (US$ '000)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993  Total    1987  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                            2S4    525    379    102      -      -      -   1,300   128    228    165    44        -      -      -     565
B. VEHICLES                                        283      -      -    233      -    101    255     872   123       -      -    101      -     44    111     379
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES g EQUIPMENT                     107      -      -     55      -      -     61      223    46      -      -     24      -      -    26       97
D. TRAINING
OVERSEAS (NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES) TRAINING       172    175    177    179      -      -      -      702    75     76     77     78      -      -      -     305
LOCAL TRAINING                                  253    258    271    274    280    290    130   1,755   110    112    118    119    122    126      57     763
Sub-Total TRAINING                                 424    433    448    452    280    290    130  2,457   184    188    195    197    122    126       57   1,068
E. PILOT CREDIT SCHEME                             3(.9   165    250    394    407    289    365   2,178   134      72    109    171    177    125    159     947
F. INCREMENTAL CREDIT                                                                                                                                                      I
_________________                                                                                                                                                       on
SEASONAL CREDIT                                   -    907  3,204  3,876  4t241  3r362  4,931  20,521      -    395  1,393  1v685  1,844  1,462  2Y144   8,92'
MEDIUM-TERM CREDIT                                -    639    695    745    845    932    977   4P834      -    278    302    324    367    405    425   2,102
Sob-Total INCREHENTAL CREDIT                         -  1,547  3,899  4,621  5,086  4,294  5,908  25t354      -    673  1,695  29009  2t211  1,867  26569  11,024
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                              1,417  2,670  4,975  5,858  5S772  4r974  6,719  32,385   616  1,161  2,163  2,547  2,510  2,162  2.921  14,080
II. RECURRWNT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES I WAGES                          54     55     55     56     57     59     61     396    23      24     24     24     25     26     27      172
B* VEHICLES OIM                                    20     21     21     21     2q     22     23      150     9      9      9      9      9     10     10      65
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES I ADMINI* EXPENSES              26     27     27     27     28     29     30      195    11    12      12    12      12     13     13      a5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                 100    102    103    104    107    110    114     742    44      44     45     45     46    48      50     322
otal rROJECT COSTS                                  1,518  2,772  5Y078  5,962  5,879  5,084  6P833  33,126   660  1,205  2,208  2Y592  2,556  2,210  2,971  14,4i q2
------- - ----------- - - ------------------------------------------------==  ======  ====== -====== -===_== -====.== -====-======-======-=-====-======-=-==-= -===- -= -==   =-



- 86 -
ANNEX 8
Page I of 2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGARICULTUREL CREDIT PROEJCT
Agricultural Credit/Training Adviser
Terms of Reference
Qualifications
1.        The consultant should have a university degree and be a qualified
credit specialist/banker. He/she should have considerable experience in
appraisal and supervision of medium/long term agricultural lending, and in
training of agricultural credit staff, particularly in project preparation,
appraisal, supervision, and evaluation. Experience in cooperative banking
and with cooperative institutions would be an advantage.
Duties
2.        The main duties that the consultant would be expected to perform
would include:
(a) assisting SACA in:
Ci) review and revision of guidelines and methodology for
appraisal of loans to individual farmers and farmer
groups;
(ii) review and revision of guidelines for follow-up studies
and in drawing up appropriate format for that purpose;
(iii) review and improving loan manual that specifies in
detail, among other things, the application, appraisal,
approval, rescheduling of debt, supervision, and
collection procedures;
(iv) review and improving monitoring and management
information systems;
(v) preparation of annual lending program and cash flow
projections; and
(vi) establishing structured work programs for field credit
staff and coordination with extension staff.
(b) identification of training needs of SACA and ADDs' credit
staff;



- 87 -
ANNRX 8
Page 2 of 2
(c) desigrning cirrcula and syllabi for various courses;
(d) selecting training methods and assisting SACA and MOA in
producing training mater.al;
(e) training trainers;
(f) annual training plan formulation and program scheduling;
(g) assisting SACA in identification of trainees for fellowships
abroad and identifying appropriate courses; and
(h) assisting in conducting the courses and teaching some of the
subjects.



- 88 -                  OOULAIO                                                           ANNEX 9
SM191.1.It1,OO. t ACRICULTUUAL  C        tRDIT  PRoJICr                                  Table    1
Creditb ouatod  ProeCeti's  - 5!0a8    S&lt-auftlciCACV
09014403   I l     190107    MIN 410 090           1940191 tnenl        0"2143    MISS9 n    "4141  I-t914
r ,4,.,.......................,,.,.. .>  .............. I......... . ................. . ..................... . .... *. .....
bhwTlt,* * titeia    qrm e}   2 le* tI.#           I??t, OO   l .4n   1w.nl          7.114T    11tOO?   I .Wn       C4011 1 ,?   I*lSnO            CUPX1130
Local 011-" Sa
........................
koo440# I   .                                       02ol2.0400   415.204   797J17    779,017   742.112   744.429   72.714  ?709,000     1.204   0377,17
.4006 4   w 41                                        1.07o     I,014    1,n97       III41     1,119      1.U30     1.041     1.112     I.M        1.174
P'oa.ttlp   009 It,                                 01. 41    115,400  1074,936   W4.32   12.00   040.2           129.110   010.740   11.94    tMlt
Pv0tclgo   1 .4 total ctWo ,g4t. 60t4.                            200    0 63.9 SP   4.0t1    3.001    bi7S0    12.9lt        0.1S U    0.10t   45.t   t
Local Nom1   3*Otit,9000
...... .......__....
art' I t  4ml                                       t11.100   tO.114   1t*4429   11.13t  IV."1?   14.t71   IS1.30    14,00    14114   141,4t9
illj li t      *1                                     0.l)      O,ft90     4.90"     O.9       1.001      I.400      ,4012    1.417     I.022      1.
fteSavm 0, oe at,. WM                                         I 4.245   IU2.074   160.472   151.012   153.0   133.011   10.30    147.tn 1   10.319
tg4A9P a  104 ton al cpgu1:w' I2.911   12.135    11I e0                              I 11.24A    10.70    0 ,        .774    9*.131     0,72 o      ,441
144ttt yAr   *4   IXcI  14:l'li0Pt'0094              15,227   105540    14.14       14.3)4    14.949    12.790    01.121    13.2%       12.04    12.104
...... . .....
4roI000 ho'                                       30.000    29.244    40.729    SS.09      07.431    70.M3      04.I0    4331 191,10 0096   114,2104
Ville ltit W                                          I, 0.667  1,715      1.1U2     I.010     1.d        01         .        L.ON      2.0440    2.091
p isttim   I400 St'                                  10.010    a,491 0U.ne          Mil. 1221.2         144.335   : t,27    190.102   214.02   239.4)3
f oatlo aIf total 4       ts1 tib t                  3.f4      5.9f4      0.22      7.201     0.525      9.44     00.740    01.026    :2.34      13.904
Portent  ago tle  £sxooaa Salle                       2.471     2.644      0,229     5.149     0.402     4.01       7,7"?     1.511     9.40)    0*,130
..........
Arst (I 00 k.l                                       110.040    4.340    03.0091  124.779   14.15    144.357   010.114   142.0914  172.47n   I7.010
'loll 'at w  ha'                                      2. on     2.047      2.744     2.4:1    2.911       2.03      2.032    23,2t    2,220        2.422
rotU t ' O0  Vt'                                    22. ttO   14 9,132  31.3940   254.4907   2.230   431,0a2   40U,03 1  1S2.211  171.6311  495
progvt:u 400I 0404 t1i (co.bot:a                     07,102    00,040    22.142    24,10       26.093    M1,074    30.01    M2,SS    04.143   3U.i11
percent  ,t44o   0t tl tit Aim                        7.021     1.223    00.210    11.010      01.403    01.S       t 1.11 0    t4104  1t51127   0l.000
Total tlten  Ot utoto
lOtfI 0440444' NI   000 041                  002.3,0   0479704  00395.7in   002.07   0072.02.01  :039"  000.20   0004.044  0104,109  004.290
1,1,1 "Its4 p604040 Ia  0  et'                     0744,4011  1207,271 0419,229  0404.  31031,012.4   001.100  042.090  0007,194  1744.M I20 70.430
10t40 "11, 39044(a00 is 1.  90440ta  ec 4a0mt       1*3,294,   94.11   160,27Z   004.094   004,000   104.2)3   004.307   104.449   004.405   002.111
........ ....... _ _ _
fltorllr . mt41tit  04t4        I  W1                44,005   .7,n0.0      7.900    19.745     &        l .00.3   41.017    7.004    704.941    04.I"2
owot alrtia fvtttitloo M   tlh                                 22oo   3Utl    23S.111t   23t.t7  ISSl.t   IYt.UI0  litRe    JfJPz  IU.4S4  lnlf000
Firtioli t  M  I O    it p  0) t.nu    .R6                                 4.t2       Ml       %.       I Mt0340  0S.41       I.111'   f.1S        5.0
Local kIu     Pa 0tt04l4
........ ...... ..s.
4ett00l04o  0011440:44 rate f04 I Wa  0l             31.000    2.400    27.107    27.043    31,204    20.00         940 2.3   04.00    24.599    3.1409
00'c0l viad 0#rt0l000r it)                           77.4      2.         2.000     22.6072.71   24.8   23842  29.770 P 21.22  21.4009   . 24.4  7.30
Pgtttdilt  M    I 000tt    0,0                                     14,     0.1       5m        U12        h.1       1.240     1.31      1.F39     1.741
tt l  tlo  itt
=..__. ._...........
fprtilttr t0l0tct4 t rite 'k9 I W       r           40.42 -t    1.1 2t?    2l.0t4    lO.922    30,499    so,004 0 30zs.2    10.004    39.747    539.4
pfatcp  P"a 9w110e1r 'tl                             32.00    P.M         22.70     N.S114 2,7   4       21.204    0.042    21.30    21.017   2t.111
Otfalt fo.  VW  I 300t .  's I0.190    10.2f                               1.21$     0.2       0.032      1.2M      0.201     0.2411     0.242     1.21
rv0tiltiv,    ,icst 'ale ,t, r te fa l 4  1          4 k) 430    4.020    44.050    V7.220    44.404    a.000    10.00       ".o    Il.=9        14.010
trtPt aro  b01tilit:  '11                           05.00    14.121          tt      .200 14   . §7 .002    95.070    n7.30           114.471    10.619
Stotillittt V"t I ooo It   htS 1I                      .M      2I7 tlS       2      64t  1     7.t  ^1ll    1.syt    lia.1   11,5t    IS.=b      14,
Tota  otiliter  4no4 INO4 0 00'  It *0.10                       00        1.34 tb.m7           2.4       2      .170 M1                  .04     45.772
vait t  toa r   rtiliffUsI 0  a)                    WMfJ      f"41n    26,e ON       X#      nftt?,1    n3.25    ffS11  6   tt,tff 0.      It.33  $.6
tt4tiliter fatwOob too fft       00t f Itr Ul o1    10 2.nt4    14.2t7    *.su                47.u1    0.300       509       72.03       .t32    00.30
t1(41 Crtil4 fe - ttel      dtt ttl                  01 f.000    0.4    00.029    00.041    90.017 9N 2,       1091.20 n e     .3      2t.er4   13040.4
0ttil 00l04s0 ,   t       5i th44o t    tt I'.204    201.U               20.392    t38,04     0224    10.02 14.04           4.7 7s.2             04.ttt
0414  14 0000 Ottl or                                20.091 an.22I    2.20         4.21        .904       .       7094      4002       40.2      3.14
tr9 l b0     l 44tt Moov
........*+..........................
optiltitgt           OA0:040  44 t,ait I 30et of 00   14114    4.1n       0.121     7.272      .0.0      0,944     9.905    00.9 0X 2.030    0.97
t1t371  FoNtilltiprice to '0         if40             1.0t0     I.030     2.442     2.412      Lan       2.090     L.07      3.03 Is      2       32 7t?
007q.to P0(4 aliq4t444   'Osal if m4 hily 4.6 l0.0              0.2in     0.1       2.304      2.431    1,794     2.07      2.0        2.202      .207
tolW  to I4ftil,tor a4 trU it t41t4  000f1 t2O                      I ,   111,4 .7 I 1.019    09,464    M4.002    30.1121    24. S 10.00 U        2.323 2M   01.
S0t of totl FtIltt Ii         Pooqoult
...... .... __........._....._
rfftilit4'r capacity t  te(0:t    0  0at to PI        1.5S29    1.412    I0'0       2.03       2,421     2,.49     2.94       2.20      0.000     M.001
Iconic OfftilitOW  tOrite 4n  tW      ' t,4P0                   0.tOO      0.701     0.759     1,702t    0,02       1.00      0.110  0I.71        0.710
t t,  Vit aim   sl               to  for to 2    'l                                  l.lt 1.2no  1.200  0.27  1,04  l.P33l 1.3us  013  0,3*  0.T1  0.ltS
veu 04 0tetfilfifr    r0rti0t fal0   ' 000I 4         0.t24          1.700  2.14    2.041      2.244     3.g71     4.0h 4    4.479      4.013     1.103    21.240
0l0t0  *410 tal 44trtallla t*rHlt t                  0l.1154   '.423    02.271    00,004    22,731   20.20       34,00    3.0107    42.(O       471.41   22.15
0t10' Itiltond  Cr010 Obslrtwtal                                            92.2     1.400     t-11.2    0.403     0.012      915t4    l.NO       9.401
.... ....._......._..
70t0l b001e"  Pt410t 'tat9irts f s                    1.554    1'.421    0.M        23,400    29.120    3,7i 77    03.2f4   tf.171      2.tOI   50.911  29.14
tri4t Ct44 l44y                                                           0.030     ,000       0.000     400.0      M.OSS     0.0U5     t.0U      0.035
'lat1 momis4 (rotlt 'r00u1theyt; 4It1
9'nettr Utlaqtitrtl                                                      '.'D      24.10     t0.70    2X.t37 t     S.6I2  13.5tf    P9.314      04.91a   209.,22
.  ..............I....................... .    ..1    ..   .                                                                         .... . ........I



- 89 -
W-0 .                                ~~~ANNEX 9
WuNZin Ammumd. mmT M                                                   Table 2
htu         P          -n l .1d                             t
.................................................                   .       ..... ..~........ ...   ... 
_.                        .      . . ._.......................... _                    _ M_
(,,,,,,_  _983/3 _  _     /OS 91384a    19 936     196   I910   1891"           91192   12 (993/            907-9O
............                                                                   .     ... ---             -      …
SauAl Credit ('00  l                218.42   290.42   #2.41   459.3      9.9   0200  932.46  1043.54  1105,31  11(7,W0  122.041  1290.43    7594.11
Price ctianwcy                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        0.00    7.00    15.73   25.12   50.09      5.54   .157        3925
Sottot  l 1000 RI                 213.42   290.62  526.41  45.39  339.    92.00   939.63  109.27  1,30.43  1225.17  1324.42  1420.50    7935.35
37020 03
2umul credit 1'0005)               1279.9  141.N  1913.60  254.02  144. 14  2700.00  3740.92  4671.34  52.74  4.43  7404.4 0315.52   S3929.31
Price    6eitO nor                    0.00    0,00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   23.21    70.43   14.3   32320   55.0   37.5          2012.07
3-total I'000 Eil)               (27.9  141.00  I((.60  '3t7.2  14.U14  2700.0 379.913  4742.27  5109.63  6131.63  796.40   M3.07    410941.3
I~U3Z
ksal credit r'000 5)               1144.5  1947,19  320.0  4745.12 529.40  4WO.00 (099.4  1391.24 (46W.53  (0.49 163.41 170,73   99441.90
Price cotinftet                       0.00    0.00      e.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    31.73  20.79  330.37  739.4  1330.19  (900.31    4429.40
itat l (oe 0     )                1 144.55  1947.19  3320.00  4705.12  S2M5.40  9450.00 10901.22 14124.03 1522.774 (441.90 1al44.J  19701.54  104291.30
uLaw a
Soum   treit ('0005)                 0.074   729.43  (3.7  (317.24   89.57  (320.00  2(7.73  2495.17  23.35  3171.13   0.92  334.70   (90S.4
Price Cutitgo                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0e       0.00     0.00   (4.13    3.42   64.39   157.3   22.04   40.3          959.47
Mtotel (100 (I                    40074  719.63  100.7  1317.24   84.57  12.00  2(73.97  23.19  2397.74  33.%  3781.73  4 .2a    207.91
"MAI credit (53 El                 3165.21  4250.03  5504.40 SU7.07  53.1  0140.00 1105.14 (43.44 (43,49 (5.32 (45(9,l5 17510.90   91.174
Price ctioKy                          0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.o0    3.M0   204.1   3o.33   72.31  1239.3  109.03    453.99
W-total (0    l                  316U.21  4203  a54.4u    47.07  57M.91 0140.00 (1153.21 1347.33 (43415.32 (40.13 IM3.73 19310.01   1014ts.73
kere  creit (000l E                 449.44   3.    1014.4   94.17   938.52  1544.0  20(30.5   20.17 253.75 203.33   144.91 342.50   (797.24
Price cutiq    y                      0.00     0.o 0    M  0     .00    0 .00  0.00 0.    15.14   34.47   50.47   142.51   244.54   3.73       341.29
la-totw  l o(00)                        946   75.08  (014.43   934. tl   93.52  154.00  2333.72 2334.04  240.42   05.04 3M39.47  37.22   (3V7052
rl ctrdit  'm El                    570.77  610.16  79.93   04.45   905.4  IS2.00  I140.91  (I4.32  173.7n  1S.44  (944.5  20M.44   (2507.11
Pice coot.ey 0.00                              0.00     0.00     0.00    0.0      0.00     2.07    35.59    3.0   93.35  (52.7   219.11         543.56
tomta.l ('0005 5)70.77   610.14  729.93  036.45   90.74 14520.00  420.98  1723.41   32.34  (96.9  2117.32 2272.44    13050.
- 50U
huede  ceit f00 V)                  142.97  239.44   341.01   371.19  343.64   0.00   4.5   813.74   944.44  1073.53  1M2.4I 1331.29    4(2.51
Price cetiwo   t                      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00       . 5    2.30    21.47   S.S   93.50  (42.09          327.95
Sub-totel ('000 E                  42.97   239.44   341.01   31.59  363.4  5.0   492.03  3.0O   941    lh    1 (295.91  1473.33    40.4
bell Pactop kkm
ll pept       rodit ('000                                                       (34.50   327.60  544.00  923.20  3130.40  142.   20U47.50    4933
Prate coetl co 0.00    29.13    90.42  213.20  37.02  593.73   5.44                                                                            214.31
ktotal (000)                                                                  :'3.30   357.00   44.42  (14.   1403.42 22.33 2M90.46    9t(
Wml
total wesse  credit ('000 on       m O72.0  (53." 14527.5S 17401.05 127.80 2U71.50 3447.97 4100.40 4537.A 04944.4 0I51.40 574U.30   305.17
Price ct tiepec                       0.00    o.oo    0.00    0.00       o.00     0.00   23.14  700.   1219.03  763.3  442.5   76.19   167.2
30-total ('000 o                 7M72.07 10531.99 I452753 (7401.05 1471.110 24714.5   744.01 41731.32 443.63 52113.33 2124.1 U4417.43   323n5.44
odieotorn Credit
Saidoere tcrdit ('000 SI 71.43  594.47  42.                                                                  .    744.44   77.32   744.55    444.07
fi"lcal cttiqm"tc (53)                                                           23.57    29.33    3.14   32.49   35.32   37.37    33.23        233.45
Price tcoetiagecy                                                                 0.00   23.49   45.94   47.7"  (00.24  (54.N2   197.22         s7.40
Crdit ('000 K)                                                                  e00.00   50.00   70.O   750.00  350.01  950.00  100.00    5400.01
Total Ludisa PrqWe ('0005 )                                                 2731.50 34394.01 4243.32 471(5.63 32M9.34 9074.1 4417.49   3275.44
Credit CerWa
to. i4 brrore - weasl cttit   (54703   I02S   211710  20799   203454  23nO7  233     2427   2W1   312254   32   3151
.L Of buerni r- well fic10  4                                                     5000   (2000   20000   34    430    426010   7500
ttatl r. of b4rrrs                 (54703   00254    (770  207994  20345    2170   250333  2W3          325   36M0254   3         4 1
Or.  f fee fmilbsn                 (2201  1244202  129984  (327143  I(350   (4(5044  (4S7  (4974021 9 IS( 9   ( 2  167l  177
Cemop - mcl. m1l Wakp a            1(2.75   (4.24    (6.29    IS.54    14.79   15.10    4.37   (7.54   1(3.47    (9.70    20.64   21.5
CoVWta   - ttt. Mil WpAU    (21    (2.75    (4.26   14.29   (5.5    10.73    15.4    (7.20    1.90   20.7   22.73    24.44    2.02



- 90 -
mumn                                                          ANNEX 9
mWAUaM  MauKYRAI awr MW                                                           Table 3
Ib& Of BtEI. Fat Fa^3Ia. s*t UCAe of smaP' 2vd1t
----------------------.--....-  ........ .......... ............. ..,_,,,,,,,,,,,,,_,,........................ ...................................................................,
..... . ---------  tACTU  ----------- -----*-- ---------------          - _-Y1  -----------------    mAL
M1IR/3   198384  2994/85  12965186  2936/7  197/1S  29S@/S  l18W90  1990/92  199112  1992/93  19"/94 21987-94)
.,, ..... .. .... .... ....... .. .._ ............... ....................    -.- ------------- --. ------------------ -.. ------- -.... -------- - --- -... . ..
KOM AN
._........
No. of  worrort                           6003     9581    10642      9177       624      9200     9819    1043?    11053    HI671    12229    I220           77572
No. of fare fasilin                      33702    345N1    34752    35           44      37315    36210    39127    400es      41028    42013    43021        4302
Covetge Itl                              23.75    24.BB    30.62    25.79    24.22    24.66    25.69    26.67    27.59    29.45    29.25    30.00
Avg. Ion, W  borroowr (28)               27 29    33.84    49.48    71.85    44.23    90.00    9.o00    00.00   100.00   200.00   200.00   100.00             917.96
Sessonal credit t OCO Otl               212.42   20.62   526.61   659.39   389.99   829.00   9n.68  1043.54  1105.31  1167.08  1222.86  1290.63             7596.11
No. of borrows                           17251    21519    2303       19293    13952    15000    19794    2469    298          34177    39972     :766       205681
No. of farm falitn                      112237   2150184   117846   12074   123570   126536   12973   132683   13587   139128   142467   2469                14586
Covera   2                               215.35   12.70    29,55    15.15    22.29    11.95    15.29    18.53    21.63    24.57    21.35    30.00
Avg. It per berroswe  2)                 74.20    77.29    93529   240.45   118.13   180.00   190.00   M90.00   29.00   20.00   190.00   190.00              298.57
Ca OSla credit 1000  K0                1229.96  1661.00  2913.60  2567.82   64B.l4  2700.00  3760.92  4671.84  5582.76  U493.68  7404.60  8315.52    39929.31
KAM02  ANO
b6. o  Irwrowsr                          23213    30963    40039    62178    6           6000    U122    73243    785    93487    680    930                 54
36. of farm famlis                      158259   26340   169204   274951   2i0          267056   193416   299992   206792   23823   222m 20                  2261 26
Covere 2t                                14.67    26.92    23.66    35.54    33.48    33.8    35.22    36.62    37.90    39.04    4.00    41.00
An. Ion  per Werrotr Ig0)                49.31    63.53    62.92    76.32    97.43   250.00   260.00   290.00   l90.00   29O.0          90.00   290.00       280.00
asotnal credit  X000  )                2244.53  1967.19  3520.08  4745.22  5295.40  9450.00 20099.47 13926.24 14669.36 258162.49 103.61 17806.73    ""66I.90
$ALIIN itN
No. of borroars                          i824    1334    17384        4769    10531    24000    1659    12197    21795    24393    26m            29590      152565
No. of fare familie                      70635    73037    75520    788        807143     3488    86327    99262    9296    95435    98679   202034          102034
Coverag  III                             12.49    29 .      23.02    16.92    13,04    26.77    29.23    22.52    23.61    25.56    27.35    29.00
Aiv. Ioa  per borrower tl                69.06    54.05   .629    9P.20    95.14   230.00    30.00   230.00   130.00   130.00   13.00   23O.OO               130oo
Seasonl credit 2000 10K                 600.74   719.60  10i.77  1317.24   396.57  2920.00  2157.78  2495.57  2833.35  3171.13  3508.92  3846.70   129 .45
No. t4 boreors                           6263    61422    6ii2       413    66234    66000    73934    79669    65503    91337    97172   203006             58520
ft. of fire fiwlie                      216064   223430   231027   236892   247004   255402   264086   273063   262349   291949   30l275   312139            312239
Coverage (21                             23.54    27.49    29.57    26.75    26.82    26.62    27.96    29.28    30.29    31.29    32.19    33.00
Ag. lo-    pr borrowr (28)               51.33    69.32    82.75    91.63    86.87   220.00   250.00   270.0    170.00   270.00   270.00   270OO .           20.00
Sasonal credit  l0OO 802               3165.21  4258.03  5584.68  5867.07  5713.921  860.00 11075.14 13543." 14535.4  15527.32 1659.15 27510.98    9667.74
LIU=DE Al
No. of borrosrs                          15293    22630    26321    929s    23706    29300    22429    25557    29686    31825    34943    38072             20e003
lk. of fare failieS                     287069   294533   302129    310040   312609   326380  J33486    3435r7   352505   362670   371074   380722           380722
Coverage 222                              5.33     7.68      3.73     6.22      5.       5.91      6.70     7.44      B.24     S.30      9.42        10
Avg. Ioa  per borrowr (2I                42.47    34.73    38.53    51.11    50.27    60.0       9O.O0   90.00    90.00    9o.o0   90.00    90.00            06.57
Uesonal credit I 00 OX)                 649.4b   75.88  1016.481  9i3 .7   939.52  1544.00  2028.58  2300.17  2582.75  2963.33  3144.92  3026.50    17679.24
L2it8E A1g00
No. d4 borroers                           6936    13193    24297    24324    18522    19000    20111    21223    22334    23446    2455          25668       256339
No. d4 fare failin                     2764tB    283677   292053   291620   306385   314351   322524   33009   339523   348340   357397   36669              366669
Coverg  II                               6.13      4.65      1.92     4.79      6.05     6.04      6.24     6.4       6.L58    6.73      6.37     7.00
Avg. loan ptr borrowr 2i80              33.70    46.25    52.05    62.94    53.22        0.00    B0.00    B0.00    80.00    80.00    30.00    B0.00           98.00
Staonl credit 2000 80                  570.77   620.16   729.93   386.65   9S.74  1520.00  1608.91  2697.82  17386.3  2875.64  294.55  2053.46    12507.11
NO A80
No. of borrowers                          520      8628    22682      6069      6119     6200      7632     9064    20496   12929    23360    2479            73472
No. of fare failies                      7435     7628      78273    6M0306    62396    94538    6736    88992    92305    93479    9612         98624        98424
Coveret  (21                              7.42    11.31    24.92      7.58      7.43     7.33      8.60    10.19    11.50    12.73    13.70    25.00
Awl. Ioi  per borrowr (2#1               25.90    27.15    29.29    61.04   s5.43    90.00    90.00    90.00           .00    9.        9000    90.00         90l.00
Standl credit 2 000  1                  2t42.97   239.44   342.02   371.59   363.64   558.0    686.88   65.76   944.64  27.53  2202.42  1332.2              6622.51
No. of berrorw                          256703   130256   211770   207996   203454   223700   2383    262977   297625   312254  g3369    362531             2023307
on. of fars failis                     I22288   1264202   29866  2337163  1375552  2415066  245739  2497602  154069   2595052  Ui071B  1677716              2677
Coamrae 121                              12.75    24.26    16.29    25.56    14.79    15.10    16.37    17.56    28.67    19.70    20.66            22
Avg. lo   per borroer (280               49.t6    SB.43    68.60    83.66    79.98   124.38   239.05   1539f   1523.98   153.83   153.79   253.75            147.52
Seasnl credit 2 000RO                 17772.07 10532.99 14527.15 17401.05 16271.80 265B0.00 33120.37 4044.60 44259.40 8034.20 51210.00 5555.80   29991.37
W! P: ioJECT2IMS ARE to 27
KOM 0



- 91 -                             ANNEX 9
Table 4
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJXCT
Approximate Number of Medium-teru Loans
Project Years
1     2       3       4        5       6        7     Total
Stallfeeding             50   100       400     450      460     480      490   2,430
Dairy                     10    60       80     100      120      130     140      640
Poultry units (100
birds)                  10    20       25      30       40      50       60      235
Fish farms                10    20       30      40       60       65      75      300
'?loughs/ridgers         100   500   1,200   1,300   1,600   1,700   1,900   8,300
Sprayers                 150   800      900   1,000   1,100   1,130   1,150'  6,230
Ox-carats                 20   200      300     400      600     650      700   2,870
Processing equipment       0   100      110     120      130      140     150      750



- 92 -                      ANNEX 10
Page I of 2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
An Overview of the Expected Investment Demand
1.        Farm Machinery and Equipment.  Given that investments are
potentially profitable and sufficient cash flow is generated to repay
loans, a modest increase in the supply of implements co farmers with 1.50
ha and above has been assumed. Currently some 20% of this group are
estimated to own one or more implements. It is estimated that over the
seven-year Project period, between 8,000-9,000 units of ploughs, ridgers,
and ox-chains, would be issued on credit (about 1,200 units per year).
Sprayers for cotton have been a major component of medium-term credit with
some 6,000 issued. However, since the use of sprayers is limited mainly to
the cotton growing areas of Salima and Ngabu, it is not expected that the
demand for sprayers would increase substantially. It is estimated that, on
the average, about 1,500 sprayers a year would be purchased through the
credit. In addition to the above individual purchases, there is scope for
club purchases. Therefore, a provision has been included for an additional
500 loans for ploughs and ridgers and 150 for sprayers.
2.        While there is considerable need for ox-carts, the current high
cost (MK900-1,300), has limited their use. In the future, there could be a
greater demand for ox-carts if supply sources increased and more
appropriate equipment becomes available. It is estimated that some 2,500-
2,900 carts would be issued either to individuals or groups. Allowances
have also been made for items such as groundnut lifters, wheelbarrows and
cultivators.
3.        Storage and Processing Equipment.  As a time-saving device for
farmers, in particular women farmers, and as a means of increasing returns
for smallholders, the Project would fund individual loans for processing
equipment (maize and groundnut shellers, small oil presses, etc).
4.        Stallfeeding is the traditional method of producing beef.
Typically, two steers are fattened over a 150 day period, mainly on crop
residues and "madea" (maize bran). At the national level, there is scope
for increasing the supply of all meats, including beef. A comprehensive
estlmate of supply and demand carried out in 1983 indicates that urban
demand Is increasing by 9 to 11% per year. Supply on the other hand, was
projected to increase by less than 4% per year.  The suppLy of steers for
fattening, however, is the major constraint. Most of the steers are
currently procured through the Department of Animal Health and Industry
(DAHI). Scope for expanding the stallfeeding program depends on the supply
of steers from DARI, and its capacity to do so is currently limited to only
4,150 head per year. Under the project, credit would be granted to farmers
to purchase steers from any bona fide supplier, including DAHI. It is
considered that there is scope for expanding the stallfeeding program by
3,000-3,500 by Year 7 or an average of 430 cattle per year.



- 93 -               ~~~~ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
5.        Dairy.  Loans are normally made for an average of two dairy cows
(friesian X zebu cross), and for the establishment of grass/fodder and
equipment. Currently, dairy loans are limited to three milkshed areas.
While there is demand for fresh milk, as in the case of stallfeeding, the
supply of livestock - in this case dairy cows - is a major constraint for
expanding milk production. Potential supply from DAHI is estimated at
about 900 cows p.a. However, this overestimates the credit sales of dairy
cows, since about 60% of the supply is purchased on a cash basis. There is
also limited demand for investments in six of the milk-cooling centers
within the milk-bulking groups organized by the Malawi Milk Marketing
(MMM). To alleviate these constraints, it is expected that the potential
for increasing the number of dairy loans by Year 7 would be 1,600 to 2,000
dairy cows.
6.        Poultry.  Loans are normally made for 200-250 bird units for
sales of eggs to the Malawi Egg and Marketing Board (MEM). Pullets are
either locally supplied by Mikolongwe or imported. In addition, some
chicks are supplied by private hatcheries. One major constraint to the
expansion of commercial, small-scale poultry production is the availability
and quality of feed. Furthermore, the size of the production units
currently being established requires relatively larger markets than those
available in the rural areas. The development of poultry production is
thus limited to the larger rural centers (the average smallholder has 6-8
hens for domestic consumption). Expansion of the existing scheme outside
the major centers is not considered feasible, and smaller units (100 birds)
should be encouraged. Smaller production units would reduce the risk for
smallholders and, given the lower capital cost, would require less rigorous
management and feed supply conditions. The Project has thus projected a
modest increase of about 230 units.
7.        Fisheries.  There is demand for the establishment of fish farms,
the purchase of nets and boats used by traditional fishermen, and fish
processing equipment, including drying racks and smoking kilns. The
development of fish farming has been accorded high priority by the
Fisheries Department. The Domasi Fish Farm is currently the center for
fish farming in Malawi, and work has begun to establish six similar
centers; the first of these (Kasinthula in Chikwawa) is already
operational. These stations would provide administration, extension and
research services to beneficiaries. In addition, they would support a
network of sub-stations which would be a part of the RDP system. It is
expected that about 300 small ponds would be developed on credit over the
seven-year period in the areas where the substations are to be established
- Mwanza (LWADD), Ntcheu (LADD), Dowa (KADD), Mzuzu (MZADD) and Chipata
(KRADD). Funds would be provided to farmers for the construction of 0.05
ha or 0.10 ha ponds, and also for initial purchase of feed and manure. The
ponds would be stocked with tilapia and carp. The Fisheries Department's
substations would supply fingerlings and would also serve as demonstration
ponds and provide extension services to beneficiaries. Resources would
also be made available for the purchase of nets, boats and engines, fish
drying racks, and smoking kilns.



- 94 -
ANNEX 11
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Recommended Chemical Inputs Used by Smallholders in Malawi
A. Fertilizer
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate (CAN)
Diammonium Phosphate (DAP)
Sulphate of Ammonia (SA)
20:20:0
Urea
B. Pesticides
Dipterex (2.5%) granules
Sumithiont vFenitrothion) 50%
Sumicidin (Fenvalerate) 20%
Sevin (carbaryl 85% WP)
Laconil 2787W-75
Orthene (Acephate) 75% S.F.
Actellic (Pirimiphos-methyl) 2%



1--    3r   \.ws;,QU-t$s4,^^   ;,  '   -                 --  -             i       _~~~IBRD  2
AAALAWI
Chd "vP<-            \7               SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTUkAL
)  '>   7sN                   CREDIT PROJECT
o  ~AGRICUL1URtA1 DEVLoipmETt
J   fKARONG                                      DIISIONS WUNDAR                  t
|. \   s  +  9 57      S     ADD HEADQUARTERS
Z      \        H 6 l MAtN ROADS
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                              i   RAJ8%*tII-FtWAYS
*otogs'c t.wlag onlCh.oelo 'tQRIVERS
/              0 /   oM10W           _-_  IttNYRNVAtONM BOUNDARES
) l'!OUmiY
zuzu           Nt
/                     t        C   tNtX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kto say~ -S ~~
Z   A   MN   B   I  A            ) M/u.
-   |t   b            \            ~M 0 Z A M B I Q U E
' 1 I1 "U 
fl$  Ig .                \k* fw vVwtob,
t00..dR*d. St., dOC&do0o
t  . 105 0ddod WI do 0 VW
do of TM W-t O" O" ft
05**0 _t-- 0 0                                                                                    LI5*0E \ 5 0 1
pl St mJp1*  t_no prDCV, t *05 tt t d                               t                                        j1
kddn*0t #:,*me ctoo
v#,  lt #PW                                                                             -     T ;  -0  1   100
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI   1987  it-
M 0 Z A M  B I Q U                                           
.                    /L  iS  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
'A'.ZANAYQ                                             %    1Y 
Z AI*f /o            d                         *        (o              > <                                     ¢
^,K,OA _ #t1 'MALAWI{                                 /s1GA?            M 
.... . -- - , .......... _ * f Ei t 11 1 290iETERS!!. 
APRIL 1937



IBRD 20608
l ~- 3r2    -   x    ,?t D&qS$S,.RMS                     3w3                                                                
MA LA WI
F                                              '6  9   SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT PROJECT
NJ ..    >S      \              \'                 _      BOUNDARIES OFAGAICULTURALDIEVELOPMENE DIVISIONS
AOO HEALODUARTERS
I \ . 9 . Chidvmlbot              uREXISTUIN MAJOR AGRICULTURE PROX CT AREAS
S / t ) <'1lar ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oh 1* . ~~~~~~~~IDA I If AD FINAIICIAI. ASsIStANCE
i. ~ k   /   p.   tOTHER AGENCIES FINANCIAL 'SSISTANCE
I                  OUI j   A/    Alo'.  \            MAIN ROAOS
t   (                 *witt          '7\>1' l                  p     111191111t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAI AYS
I'               /? HtS  ';                                 RIVERS
INTERNATIONIAL OUNDARES
Z    A    M, B    I   A                                                                                                                    12.1
I                                          It~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISLAND
j ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0    A'                                                     M      I       Q U 
.S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V1 1C_..b ,,.1
LION
,I "" Wu  S.
MOZAM,"BIQU                                                                                BOLAM IQ
f'          , .."--o  ''  \                                                             ,.
! . r - $- In. 0000
I 1'. " B!        '.A:'                    IY
! N~L    ~-.             >Y~                    T70&                                       \        8i>   H\ 
w"#                 O ZAMS,                                                                       -.,    ,                    \         ,
* w     STSWAA#f                   -                                               S      _ 
C  souT                V        0       20S     ;0 NO           NO       0



