CREDIT NUMBER 1851 MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1851 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
,C-
AGREEMENT, dated             4-U   00        , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
and a grant in an amount equivalent to four million nine hundred
fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,950,000) as a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) and an amount equivalent to
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 400,000) as a
grant (hereinafter called the Fund Grant) to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Fund (hereinafter
called the Fund Financing Agreement).
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(c) "OPC" means the Borrower's Office of the President and
Cabinet;
(d) "SACA" means the Smallholder Agricultural Credit
Administration within MOA;
(e) "ADD" means an agricultural development division within
MOA;
(f) "RBM" means the Reserve Bank of Malawi, established
pursuant to the Reserve Bank Act (Cap. 44:02 of the Laws of
Malawi);
(g) "SCF" means the Smallholder Credit Fund, established
pursuant to Section 17 of the Finance and Audit Act (Cap. 37:01 of
the Laws of Malawi); and
(h) "MMF" means Malawi Mudzi Fund to be established by the
Borrower for the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 4,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i) at such places as the Association shall reasonably
request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions
or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 1998, and ending October 15, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 2007, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.


﻿-4
(b) Whenever:
(i)   the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment
of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in
the amounts of such installments, the payment of
interest, at an annual rate agreed with the
Association, on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the abovementioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through


﻿-5-
MOA and OPC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services,
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall periodically review and
revise interest rates to ensure that rates charged:
(i) on smallholder agricultural credit; and
(ii) on the pilot credit and savings scheme under Part C
of the Project
are appropriate and in line with the overall interest rate
structure in the Borrower's territory.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all reasonable
measures to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project
are carried out with due regard to environmental factors,
including the maintenance of appropriate agricultural pesticides
control practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
SCF, MMF and the Special Account for each fiscal
year, audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors, acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures, with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) as evidence of
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements' of expenditure submitted


﻿-7-
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceet;s of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in subparagraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Fund Financing Agreement has
been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and the
Fund, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Fund Financing Agreement, other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINANCE                         4407 MI
Lilongwe


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
ByA~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Tne table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Eligible                    3,020,000       94%
Expenditures
for incremental
seasonal credit
under Part A.1
of the Project
(2) Medium-term                  700,000        90%
credit under
Part A.2 of
the Project
(3) Vehicles and                 170,000        100%
equipment under
Part B.1 of
the Project
(4) Technical assis-             220,000        100%
tance under
Parts B.2 and B.5
of the Project


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Training under               170,000        100% of foreign
Part B.3 of                                 expenditures
the Project
(6) Operating costs               25,000        100% of foreign
and maintenance                             expenditures
(7) Unallocated                  295,000
TOTAL                  4,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "operating costs and maintenance" means the
costs associated with the operation and maintenance of vehicles,
office supplies and equipment provided under the Project;
(d) the term "incremental seasonal credit" means the
aggregate principal amount of credit, repayable in less than a
twelve-month period, provided or to be provided, to farmers' clubs
or farmers countrywide, in a crop year commencing on October 1 of
a given year and ending on September 30 of the following year,
less the aggregate amount of such credit provided in the preceding
crop year; and
(e) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures for
goors for  incremental seasonal credit, over and above any such
credit financed or to be financed from the proceeds of any loan,
credit or grant, other than the Credit and the Fund Loan, under
any scheme administered by MOA.


﻿- 12 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) payments for study tours under Category (5) unless the
Association shall have approved the candidates for, and the scope
of, such study tours.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to transform the present
area-based or project-based smallholder credit system int6 an
efficient national smallholder credit system and to explore the
possibility of providing credit to the rural poor to finance
income-generating economic activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Credit:
1.   Incremental seasonal credit to farmers for the purchase of
inputs for crops and livestock.
2.   Medium-term credit to farmers for financing on-farm and off-
farm investments.
Part B:   Institutional Support:
1.   Strengthening SACA through recruitment of staff and the
provision of office space, transport, supplies and equipment.
2.   Technical assistance to M0A in organizing and operating SACA
and the national smallholder credit system.
3. . Training for credit staff of MOA and farmers' clubs.
4.   Planning and initiation of schemes to promote mobilization of
savings in rural areas.
5.   Carrying out of a study to assess constraints affecting the
demand for on-farm and off-farm investments.
Part C:   Pilot Credit and Savings Scheme:
A pilot credit and savings scheme for the rural poor.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding:
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Vehicles, equipment and furniture shall be bulked together in
bidding packages to the maximum extent practicable.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures:
1.   Vehicles, machinery and equipment, estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $50,000 up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Farm tools, small equipment, ox-carts and minor on-farm
works, financed through medium-term credit, may be procured
through direct contracting.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions:
1.   Review of invitations to bid, proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of each contract, required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of each such contract.


﻿- 15 -
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding subparagraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of each contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts, referred to in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency", published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Parts A and B of the Project:
1.   The Principal Secretary, MOA, shall have overall
responsibility for the implementation and coordination of Parts A
and B of the Project. The Borrower shall continue to maintain the
National (Smallholder) Credit Committee to advise the Principal
Secretary, MOA, on smallholder agricultural credit policies,
procedures and use of financial resources.
The Committee shall consist of the Controller of Agricultural
Services (National Rural Development Program), as Chairman, senior
officials of MOA, Program Managers of ADDs and representatives of
the Ministry of Finance, RBM and OPC.
2.   Within the overall guidance and supervision of the Principal
Secretary, MOA, assisted by the Credit Committee referred to in
paragraph 1 above, the implementation of Parts A and B of the
Project shall be carried out through SACA.
As a separate unit with departmental status within MOA, SACA
shall be responsible for managing, at the national level, the.
smallholder agricultural credit system and SCF. SACA shall, in
particular:
(a) pool in SCF all the assets and liabilities of the
credit funds now existing in ADDs and rural development projects;
(b) establish guidelines for preparation of annual lending
programs by ADDs and recommend to MOA management, for approval,
the proposed annual lending programs and allocation of funds;
(c) establish operational guidelines and disbursement,
accounting and reporting procedures to be applied by all ADDs,
supervise and monitor implementation of lending programs,
operational and financial performance of ADDs and operating
results;
(d) ensure that all contractual obligations relating to
credit operations in the area-specific projects, currently being
financed by multilateral and/or bilateral financial institutions
and donor agencies, are fully complied with;


﻿- 17 -
(e) establish staffing norms and coordinate training
programs for ADDs' credit and credit accounting staff;
(f) prepare action programs to:
(i) increase access of smallholders to institutional
credit; and
(ii) promote savings by farmers' clubs and individual
members in the Post Office Savings Bank or
commercial banks and other financial institutions;
(g) maintain close linkages with the agricultural research,
veterinary and extension services;
(h) explore possibilities for increasing and diversifying
sources of supply for farm inputs and investments; and
(i) take appropriate measures to ensure the participation of
women in farmer training programs to the extent of their
representation among smallholders.
3.   SACA shall be headed by a qualified and experienced
administrator, assisted by a financial controller, two credit
operations officers, one supply and marketing officer, two
accountants and office support staff.
4.   Promptly after the establishment of SCF, SACA shall deposit
funds transferred to SCF into an interest-bearing account to be
opened and maintained in RBM or a commercial bank.
5.   In order to enhance the mobilization of rural savings, SACA
shall, not later than April 30, 1988, establish a Savings
Coordination and Promotion Committee, consisting of SACA's
Administrator, as Chairman, and representatives of RBM, the
commercial banks, the Post Office Savings Bank, Malawi Union of
Savings Credit-Cooperatives and ADDs' Program Managers.
6.   MOA shall:
(a)  (i) appoint a consultant to carry out a study to
critically assess the constraints affecting the
uptake of medium-term investment credit by
smallholders;
(ii) submit the recommendations of the study, for the
Association's review, by not later than June 30,
1988; and


﻿- 18 -
(iii) promptly, thereafter, take all measures necessary
to implement the recommendations of the study; and
(b) by not later than June 30, 1988, review with the
Association and determine any need for hiring consultants to
further strengthen the monitoring and evaluation, and computer
programming capability of M0A.
7.   MOA shall, not later than April 30, 1988, appoint a
credit/training expert to advise on organizing SACA and the credit
system, and to assist in establishing credit training programs.
8.   M0A shall, not later than June 30, 1988, review and submit
for the Association's review and comments:
(a) the credit manual, new procedures on SCF operations and
plans for the strengthening and administration of farmers clubs;
and
(b) a plan for the gradual phasing-out of Governmental
budgetary support of credit administration costs to be completed
not later than September 30, 1989.
9.   Subject to Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and paragraphs 6
and 8 of this Schedule, seasonal credit and medium-term credit
under Part A of the Project shall be made in accordance with the
procedures and terms and conditions specified in the credit manual
of MOA.
10. SACA shall ensure that income generated by SCF is allocated
to:
(a) reimburse MOA for salaries and allowances paid to, and
other related expenditures incurred for, credit staff of SACA and
ADDs;
(b) make provision for bad and doubtful loans made out of
the resources of SCF;
(c) transfer to the Ministry of Finance an amount equivalent
to interest at the rate of two percent (2%) per annum on the
proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan utilized for Part A of
the Project; and
(d) SCF general reserves.


﻿- 19 -
11. MOA shall:
(a) not later than June 30 of each year, submit for the
Association's review and comments, an annual training program for
credit staff covering the twelve-month period commencing on the
following October 1; and
(b) submit to the Association semiannual progress reports,
including a summary of operations of each ADD's resources
position, a statement showing arrears and loan collection ratios,
and, by not later than July 30 of each year, the lending program
for the subsequent year.
12. MOA shall, by not later than December 31, 1991, carry out a
mid-term review of Parts A and B of the Project with the
assistance of its monitoring and evaluation unit and, if required,
of experts recruited for this purpose.
Part C of the Project
13. In order to carry out Part C of the Project, which shall be
implemented under the overall supervision and guidance of OPC, the
Borrower shall establish MMF not later than December 31, 1988.
The objectives and scope of MMF shall be reviewed by, and
shall be satisfactory to, the Association.
14. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 13 above, the
implementation of Part C of the Project shall be carried out by a
committee which shall have a representative of OPC, as Chairman,
and representatives of MOA, the Ministry of Community Services,
and other appropriate departments and agencies, as members. The
terms of reference of this committee, which shall act as a
supervisory and advisory body in all matters relating to the
implementation of the pilot scheme and its financing, shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
15. An administrator, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association and answerable to the committee
referred to in paragraph 14 above, shall be appointed to head MMF.
16. Unless otherwise agreed by the Association and subject to
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, credit to beneficiaries under
Part C of the Project shall be made without collateral and shall
be repaid in fifty weekly installments.
17. MMF shall carry out a mid-term evaluation of Part C of the
Project by not later than December 31, 1990.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the terip "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible


﻿- 21 -
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have
been justified by the evidence, supporting the request for such
deposit, furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories for Parts A
and B of the Project, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Parts A and B of the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, allocated to the
Eligible Categories for Parts A and B of the Project, shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:


﻿- 22 -
(i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


