Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19110 AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF A
SOCIAL AND FISCAL NATIONAL IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
PROGRAM
March 31, 1999
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Department
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
Arg. $1 =. US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND GLOSSARY
AFIP                Federal Public Revenue Administration
ANSES               National Social Security Administration
APL                 Adaptable Program Loan
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CUIL                Unique Labor Identification Number
CUINTyS             Proposed Unique Single Social and Fiscal Identification Number
CUIT                Unique Tax Identification Number
DNI                 National Identification Number
GOA                 Government of Argentina
ISP                 Information Service Provider
INTERNET            Inter-networking protocol for transmission of data through packets; universally used.
INTRANET            An Internet service restricted to a private group.
JdJ                 Ministry of Justice
MdT                 Ministry of Labor
PCD                 Project Concept Document
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
SFE                 Secretariat of Fiscal Equity in the Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
RNP                 National Registry of People
SDS                 Secretariat of Social Development
SIEMPRO             Social Prograin Management System in the Secretariat of Social Development
SINTyS              Social and Fiscal National Identification System
SOE                 Statement of Expenses
VPN                Virtual Private Network - a telecommunications network with a closed users group
Vice President:          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:        Myma L. Alexander
Sector Director:          Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader:           Luis-Jose Mejia



i
Argentina
Social and Fiscal National Identification System APL
CONTENTS
A. Project Purpose and Program  Development Objective  ................................................2
1.  Program  purpose and program  phasing ........................................................                           2
2.  Project development objective ........................                         ................................  4
3. Key performance indicators .                      ............................4; .........................4
B. Strategic Context ........................................................  4
1.   Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..............................                      .................  4
2.  Main sector issues and Government strategy ...................................................    5
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..........                          .................   6
4.  Program  description and performance triggers for subsequent loans .........                             ............     7
C. Project Description Summary ...............                           ..........................................    8
1.  Project components ........................................................   8
2.  Policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...............                         ....................... 12
3.  Benefits and target population ........................                        ................................ 12
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements for phase I ..............                           ...................... 12
D. Project Rationale ......................................................... 13
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............                        ......................    13
2.  Major related projects ........................................................                                         14
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ......................                      .....................   14
4.  Indicators of Borrower commitment/ownership ...........................                          ...................    15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ......................................................  15
E. Summary Project Analyses ........................................................                                                   15
1. Economic ........................................................                                                        15
2. Financial  ........................................................   16
3. Technical ........................................................                                                       16
4. Institutional ........................................................   16
5. Social ........................................................                                                          17
6. Environmental Assessment ........................................................                                        17
7. Participatory Approach ........................................................                                          17
F. Sustainability and Risks ........................................................                                                   17
1. Sustainability  .......................................... .                                          ............  17
2. Critical Risks ........................................................                                                  18
3. Possible controversial aspects .....................                        ................................... 18
G. Main Loan Conditions ........................................................                                                       19
1. Effectiveness Conditions ........................................................                                        19
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................................................   19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................................................                                              19



i.
Annexes
Annex 1.                  Project Design Summary ...........................................................   20
Annex  2.                 Project Description  ..........................................................                                                            23
Annex  3.                 Estimated  Project Costs  ..............................                                    ............................                   25
Annex  4.                 Procurement and  Disbursement Arrangements  ..................                                           ........................          26
Table A.                  Project Costs by  Procurement Arrangements  .................                                        .........................         28
Table  Al.                Consultant Selection  Arrangements . ...................................................                                               29
Table B.                  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ..........                                                ..................   30
Table  C.                 Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds  ..........................................................                                              30
Annex  5.                 Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule  .                              ..................................................    31
Annex 6.                  Documents in the Project File ........................................................... 32
Annex 7.                  Application of Lessons Learned ..........................................................                                                  33
Annex  8.                 Schematic  of Internet Service Providers in  Argentina  .............                                          .......................  34
Annex  9.                 Statement of Loans and  Credits ..........................................................                                                 35
Annex  10.                Country  at a Glance  ..........................................................  36



Argentina
Social and Fiscal National Identification System APL
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Management Unit 7
Date: March 31, 1999                              Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Luis-Jose Mejia
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander         Sector Manager/Director:   Guillermo Perry
Project ID: 55461   Sector: Public Sector Management  Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Lending      Program of Targeted Intervention: No
Program Financing Data (US$M)                                        Sources of Financing
APL (Phases)       Total Cost        Government           IBRD
Phase I (FY 2000-2001)                        -12 -  -----2 ---------10 
Phase II (FY 2002-2005)                        50                 13                37
Phase III (FY 2006-2007)                       21                 14                 7
Program Cost          83                 29                54
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): $10 million
Proposed terms:                                               [X] Single currency, USD
Grace period (years): 5                                 [X] Variable, Libor-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Front-end fee: 1.0%
Financing plan (US$m):  (first phase)
Source       Local           Foreign          Total
Government         2.0                             2.0
IBRD/IDA          9.6             0.4            10.0
Total       11.6             0.4             12.0
Borrower:           Republic of Argentina
Responsible agency:   Secretariat of Fiscal Equity in the Office of the Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers
Estimated program disbursements (Bank   1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007
FY/US$M):
Annual   2.0   5.0   6.0  13.0  10.0   6.0   5.0   4.0   3.0
Cumulative   2.0   7.0  13.0  26.0  36.0  42.0  47.0  51.0  54.0
Program implementation period:    April 1999 - March 2007
Expected effectiveness date:      July I", 1999
Expected closing date:            September 30, 2001 (Phase I)



2
A. Project Purpose and Program Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing
The National Social Security Administration's worker database is the largest concentration of information
on contributors and beneficiaries of national programs. By crossing data from this database with those
maintained by the provinces (Mendoza initially, with others to follow) and other Federal agencies such as
the Social Development Secretariat and the National People Register (RNP), theNational Social Security
Administration (ANSES) will be able to improve the quality of their data and make it possible to detect
missing or erroneous beneficiaries. For example, by crossing data from the National People Register,
ANSES and provincial social program databases, an estimated 50,000 of potential beneficiaries of provincial
social programs would identified in the Province of Mendoza , as well as 1,500 cases of social security
benefits which are being awarded to dead people.
Discretionary pensions are awarded to hardship cases (who are not covered by other social programs) by the
Secretariat of Social Development. By cross-checking against other programs, the likelihood of awarding
these benefits to non-deserving persons is substantially reduced. Through cross-checking as well, an
estimated 20,000 cases of double coverage (national vs. provincial social programs) will be detected inthe
first participating province alone.
Public Hospitals, subsidized by the provinces, are expected to provide certain services to people covered by
private health insurance plans. Through lack of information, these hospitals are not able to bill the
appropriate health insurance plan. Savings in one province alone are expected to reach $1.8 million per
year.
These efficiency gains in service delivery and improved information would make it possible to increase
effectiveness through improved targeting and wider coverage of beneficiaries of social programs.
Similarly, the Federal Public Revenue Administration's (AFIP) taxpayer database is the largest
concentration of taxpayer information in the country. By cross-checking with provincial real estate
registries, AFIP will be able to detect an estimated 5-15,000 under-reported tax returns inMendoza alone.
Many other ways of identifying tax evasion will be improved through systematic information exchange of
this type.
The objective of the Social and Fiscal National Identification System (SINTyS) is to improve the
efficiency, effectiveness and impact of social services andfiscalprograms through
institutionalized information exchange.
Vision: Upon completion of the project in eight years, barriers to information exchange among participating
agencies will have disappeared as information gathered separately becomes available, when and
where needed and legally available, through a shared information exchange network, enabling
Government to offer "one-stop" delivery of multiple value-added and more equitable services.
Values: SINTyS will be operated with a full commitment to the following values:
* Services will be made available equally to all persons eligible for those services
* The privacy, dignity and interests of each person will be protected
* Information has worth when it is accurate, available and applied to solve problems
* Owners of existing data will continue to maintain this ownership
'In Spanish, Sistena de Identifcation National Socialy Tributario.
'In Spanish, Sistema de dentification National Social y Tributario.



3
Operating Principles:
*  Every institution owns its information, is responsible for its life-cycle management and for
defining the access rights to this information.
* SINTyS will be a broker of information in that it will provide the normative, organizational
framework for the stewardship of the methods and mechanisms for information interchange
among the participating agencies.
* SINTyS will ensure that participating agencies regulate access to information3.
Phased Approach:
Demonstration                                                              Consensusiin
Expansion                                                                Infrastructure Building
Consolidation                                                              Institutionalization
Phase I: Demonstration
The project will seek demonstrable results over a limited but representative number of institutions
and programs. The cultural change required across a large number of institutions demands a
progressive, consensus-building approach, with scarce implementation resources concentrating in a
first phase in the ownership aspects of the program, and limiting the cost of entry into the system.
Phase II: Expansion
As the number of participating institutions increases, more formal and efficient exchange
mechanisms will be required. This phase will concentrate on building the institutional, legal and
technological infrastructure needed.
Phase IIl: Consolidation
The sustainability of SINTyS will be sought through the institutionalization of the program and
continuing innovation in the provision of services.
3In particular, individuals will have the access to their own information, and a mechanism to rectify errors, a right guaranteed by the Argentine
ConstifteooL



4
2. Project development objective
The object of this project is to identify social and/or fiscal attributes of physical and legal persons
in Argentina, through a sustainable information exchange system, aimed at improving the
efficiency, effectiveness and impact of social services andfiscalprograms at all levels of
government in Argentina.
Project Strategy
Phase I: Obtain proof of concept and generate critical mass. The concrete demonstration of benefits
is key to the achievement of buy-in. Consensus building efforts and discrete activities of clear
impact (inverted triangle) will be greatest in the initial stages of the program, as potential
participating agencies have to be convinced of the benefits of participation in the program; these
efforts would tend to diminish as the benefits become more widely recognized.
Phase II: Achieve efficiency and expand the number of participants. Infrastructure Building
(rectangle) would be minimal in the initial stages as the program will be utilizing existing
infrastructures in order to minimize cost-of-entry to participants. As the number of participants and
programs rises, development of an efficient infrastructure becomes critical.
Phase III: Achieve effective SINTyS program management, on-going national policy analysis and
review and introduction of innovative services. Institutionalization (triangle) would naturally be
minimal at the outset and maximum at the end of the project, when sustainability of the program
becomes paramount and privatization and outsourcing of services and infrastructure maintenance is
introduced.
3. Key performance indicators
Overall:
Number of agencies using consistent common processes to identify entities and assets
Percentage of the population uniquely identified and with family relationship dat
For Social Services:
Effectiveness: number of identified, entitled beneficiary households previously not
receiving services:
Efficiency: Number of beneficiary households incorrectly receiving benefits;
Savings: amount of incorrect benefits not awarded
For Fiscal Programs:
Effectiveness: increase in the number of registered taxpayers
Efficiency: increase in collections:
See Annex I for specific performance indicators.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
Argentina has carried out major reforms in its public enterprises, monetary and fiscal systems, trade and
capital policies with significant results. The reform process is now in a critical second phase, focusing on the
consolidation of macro-economic stability and the challenge of poverty reduction. Support for these reformns
is a principal feature of the update to the Country Assistance Strategy, most recently discussed at the Board
on November 10, 1998 in connection with the Special Structural Adjustment and Repurchase Facility Loans.
In particular, the CAS underscored the need for reducing Argentina's significant levels of poverty and
highly skewed distribution of income, which have been exacerbated by the recent growing unemployment. It



S
cited the imperatives of restoring quality social services and instilling greater equity in them. The proposed
project, by supporting the development of better information for Government decision makers on social and
fiscal programs, is fully supportive of CAS objectives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
The Government's strategy has been to strengthen social programs both in terms of levels and of population
reached. The Government has pledged to maintain support for strengthening its social sectors. For this
purpose, among other activities, the Bank and Government recently agreed on new measures to strengthen
the social safety net (Social Protection IV Project, approved in October 1998), supplementing the three on-
going operations in this field.
Social programs now account for 78 percent of total public expenditures by federal and provincial
governments, of which the national budget finances about 60 percent. Social security outlays account for
US$19 billion and spending on health and education for another US$6 billion. An additional $4 billion
largely goes for provincial housing programs, unemployment insurance and some 40 programs in labor,
compensatory education schemes, services for the elderly, community services, nutrition, etc.
There is widespread concern about these programs' efficiencies as well as evidence of considerable potential
for duplication of benefits, along with indications of fraud, particularly within the extensive system of social
programs providing free services. Moreover, the probable attendant wastage of public funds is compounded
by the many associated opportunities for tax evasion (in the absence of cross-checking systems), which is
calculated to be relatively high in Argentina.
The Government has set its sights at obtaining better efficiency in the allocation of funds for the above
purposes, i.e. improving the targeting of social programs for the poor, and increasing the equity and
efficiency of such programs. Moreover, the Secretariat of Social Development, with other Bank support,
has already contracted an external review of its programs to determine if they are being efficiently managed.
The authorities appreciate that the improvement of the social programs will not be easy. The Government
has therefore established a Social Cabinet in the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers with the aim of improving
coordination among the many social program institutions. It also has established a system designed to help
change the focus and management of social programs (SIEMPRO). This seeks to improve the accessibility
and quality of information to be used for promoting transparency and civil society participation. The Bank's
Social Protection IV Project is helping fund technical assistance for this activity.
Social Policy  |N                                       Social Policy
F
0
R
T
71 X   .$moup,,0
Target Recipents      Benefit Recipients     N          Tag Recipients         Benefit Recipients 
Fig 1:



6
The authorities have concluded that one of the deficiencies is the fundamental absence of reliable data on
entitlements, payments and beneficiaries' contributions for some of these programs. The data currently
handled and available does not enable the authorities to accurately assess the incidence and impact of social
programs-or even to control payments to their beneficiaries.
They are even more remote from effectively identifying those needing such assistance. What is basically
needed for these purposes is accurate, up to date information on people, legal entities, and their
relationships to the programs-and to each other. There are many partial registries in existence and others
being created. However, these share information imperfectly, with only meager provisions for cross-
checking and verification of information across the disparate registries. There is no single, unified system in
place for collaboration among the numerous agencies regarding their beneficiaries, or even for that matter,
between their several "identification number" regimes, e.g., National Identification Number (DNI), Unique
Tax Identification Number (CUIT), Unique Labor Identification Number (CUIL), etc.
Similarly, fiscal programs suffer from lack of information which will link people, entities and assets, thus
permitting a decrease in the gap between potential and registered taxpayers, and an increase in the degree of
verification of taxpayer returns. Recent studies on evasion in Argentina indicate that it could be as high as
45%, which in the case of the Value Added Tax, represents US$15.7 billion per year. Not only does this
greatly curtail the ability of the Federal Government to improve the state of its finances, it leads to a high
degree of inequity in the tax system.
A
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~All Potential Taxpayers
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
To address this issue, it is necessary to assemble and permit access to data to be used in imnproving the
administration of fiscal and social benefit programs through more effective determinations of potential
contributors and beneficiaries, of entitlements, payments and contributions. The information assembled will
also permit improved policy- and decision-making for program planning, as well as performance monitoring
and evaluation.
At present, data cannot be thus assembled and used because:
* There is not a single consistent process to uniquely identify people, institutions and assets.
* Even if a consistent process were to exist, there is no single consistent method for describing
links among people, institutions and assets.



7
*  Should these links exist, there is incomplete information available on individuals and their
assets. If this information existed, it would then be possible to use to qualify individuals for
receiving benefits of entitlement programs and for fulfilling their obligations under social and
fiscal programs
*  The above-mentioned limitations necessarily result in ill-designed social and fiscal programs, or
programs of very limited scope
SINTyS will provide the framework for participating agencies to collaborate in forming and then sustaining
a shared information exchange network, from which they would draw upon data they require. The system
would entail uniform standard-based methods for the storage and interchange of shared information. For
these purposes, the system would use current and emerging Internet technology, using commercial, off-the-
shelf software and available telecommunications services. This environment would be highly scalable,
sustainable in the face of constantly changing computing and communications technology, and eventually
completely transparent to end-users. SINTyS would provide the tools and methods to ensure an agreed level
of security of access with adequate controls for protecting the confidentiality of the information being
accessed. Furthermore, SINTyS will also ensure that constitutional guarantees for the provisions of privacy
and confidentiality of individual information are preserved and protected.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans
Phase I will demonstrate the benefits obtained through SINTyS, and prepare for the expansion which would
take place in phase II. Agencies participating in phase I would be the National Social Security
Administration (ANSES), the Federal Public Revenues Administration (AFIP), the National Registry of
People (RNP), the Ministry of Justice (MdJ), Ministry of Labor (MdT) and the Secretariat of Social
Development (SDS). The Province of Mendoza early expressed an interest in participating in SINTyS and
an agreement was formalized to begin Federal-Provincial information exchanges with this province.
Mendoza is particularly suited to participating in the early stages of the project, as it has a well developed
provincial network and good quality data. Similar agreements, describing the federal and provincial
responsibilities for information exchange, including the use of a single identifier, building of the databases,
data quality and access, etc., would be entered into with four additional provinces, municipalities or agencies
selected to participate in the system during the first phase. Selection criteria would include political
willingness to participate, technical feasibility and demonstration of the likelihood of high returns.
Phase II is expected to expand the number of programs by participating agencies, to other agencies in the
health and education sectors at the Federal, Provincial and Municipal levels, and to a further ten provinces.
The basic infrastructure (legal, institutional and technological) will be introduced, requiring retro-fitting of
already participating agencies.
Phase III will continue this expansion and move towards institutionalization and value-added services.
General preconditions for moving from one phase to another are:
*  Substantial attainment of the indicator targets for the phase
*  Successful conclusion of enabling activities for the next phase
*  Agreed detailed plan of action for the next phase
*  Demonstrated implementation capacity by Government to carry out the next phase.
*  Policy Committee (or successor) sign-off on all major decisions in the previous phase and on the
implementation plan for the next phase.
Particular preconditions for Phase II are:
* Analysis of the use of local Internet service providers (ISP) completed
* Technology model completed
* Data coding standards defined
4      See Annex 8for a Schematic of Internet Service Providers in Argentina



8
*  Access methodology defined
*  Security standards defined, including encryption
*  Data Quality standards and validation methods defined
*  Design of the institutional framework ready for phase II
*  Design of the legal framework ready for phase II, in particular privacy of information and
confidentiality measures
*  Design of the architecture for infrastructure ready for phase II
*  Agreements with a number, satisfactory to the Bank, of further entities to participate in SINTyS
The aforementioned agreement with participating organizations would involve understandings with SINTyS
on their obligations under the system, the envisaged results and outcome of this participation, and the
measures to be taken to help ensure their sustainability. Further, these agreements would specify rules for
information sharing and interchange, and provisions for retrofitting the technologies systems' structures and
codes in proceeding with Phase II. An additional agreement to be entered into will deal with the
requirements for maintaining appropriate quality of system data and accessibility to it. This is likely to
entail some mechanism for regular quality checks, whose results would be published and widely
disseminated, perhaps monthly. Consideration would be given to removing the eligibility for involvement
in SINTyS for any organization whose quality of participation falls below standards.
Particular preconditions for Phase III are:
-  Agencies participating in phase II have taken all measures needed for the sustainability of benefits
obtained
*  Agreements with a number, satisfactory to the Bank, of further entities to participate in SINTyS
*  Technology model substantially implemented
*  Data coding standards in use
*  Access methodology in operation
*  Security standards complied with
*  Data Quality standards and validation methods in operation
*  Institutional framework in place
*  Legal framework in place, in particular privacy of information and confidentiality measures
*  Infrastructure deployed
*  Program Management unit in operation
*  Legal and financial arrangements for long-term sustainable institutionalization of the system
completed.
*  Agreed policies for on-going supervision, management and operation of the network
C. Project description summary
1. Project components
The project has five components: two substantive components, through which the benefits of the system will
be realized; one enabling component and two management components. The substantive components are
composed of a 40-60 relatively independent activities, grouped into sub-components by type. Because of the
incremental nature of the first phase, not all activities have been defined. New activities will be selected
based on technical feasibility, political willingness to take action, and cost-justification.
Component A: Improvement of Social Services
This component aims to improve the targeting and delivery of social services in Argentina by a
better identification of individuals, entities and relationships. This would be accomplished by
facilitating the interchange of information among participating agencies and improving the
completeness, accuracy and reliability of agency data through cross-validation. As quantity and



9
quality of information available increases, better targeted social programs can be designed and the
delivery of benefits can be controlled effectively.
Component B: Improved Fiscal Efficiency
This component aims to decrease the number of unregistered potential taxpayers and the level of
evasions through incorrect tax returns, increasing voluntary compliance through an increased
perception of risk of evasion detection. As in the previous component, this would be accomplished
by facilitating the interchange of information from participating agencies and improving the
completeness, accuracy and quality of agency data through cross-validation.
Component C: Institutional Framework, Infrastructure and Common Services
This component will provide the enabling legal and technology infrastructure within a
comprehensive institutional framework to address the need for a sustainable, systematic and
efficient information interchange environment. It will also provide the certification necessary for the
identification of people and legal entities to establish a framework that guarantees information
confidentiality and privacy. Existing institutional arrangements and technology will be used,
including current data formats and protocols, so as to demonstrate benefits readily and to retain the
main purposes of these arrangements. However, for the needs of Phase II, more efficient
infrastructure than now exist would be needed, and this would be developed under Phase I. For
example, common, not ad-hoc, data coding will be defined for future uses. In connection with the
legal infrastructure, global (not individual agency-agency) agreements will be undertaken.
Furthermore, activities would be developed to start ensuring data quality and confidentiality,
together with their verification through recurrent reviews, to be progressively integrated into on-
going functions of the SINTyS system.
Component D: Management of the System
This component will develop and implement the structure and processes which will be used initially
to control the execution of the project and eventually to manage the on-going SINTyS program
which will ensure that the benefits from the two substantive components will continue to be derived.
This would include inter-jurisdictional coordination and legal agreements.
Component E: Project Administration
This component will provide the administrative, accounting and other services that will support the
execution of the project.
The project would finance essential consulting services and equipment (computer and telecommunications)
over eight years, divided into three phases:
Phase I: Demonstration and Critical Mass (2 years)
A limited number of social and fiscal programs at the Federal and Provincial levels will be
improved by facilitating basic information exchanges; at this stage, no new technologies and/or
methodologies will be introduced. The goal of this phase is primarily to show to potential
stakeholders the benefits possible through information exchange, and obtain the participation of a
sufficient number of entities to build momentum and consensus for widespread buy-in to the
concept and benefits of SINTyS.
Phase II: Efficiency and Expansion (4 years)
The previous ad hoc, basic information exchanges will be replaced by a systematic methodology,
supported by an Internet-enabled technology infrastructure. In this phase, the rules for participation
in SINTyS will be defined, the information access rights will be defined and assured, the enabling
legal framework put in place, and others. During this phase, a considerable expansion in
participating programs in the Federal, Provincial and Municipal levels is expected. The goal of this
phase is to institutionalize SINTyS as a sustainable entity.



10
Phase m: Sustainability and Innovation (2 years)
Suitable mechanisms for SINTyS' long-term sustainability, analyzed in the previous phase, will be
introduced, including cost-recovery options, insertion in the government structure, and others. The
goal of this phase is to install the measures making SINTyS as a fully on-going, authoritative,
independently functioning mechanism. At the same time, the quantity and quality of information
which it will now be possible to access, will permit the design of new and more efficient public
sector processes, such as single-window services to the public and improved information for
decision- and policy-making.



11
Program Components
~~ ~~~~~ ~~~ -   ~~~  -             I~~ndicative Costs (US$M         .       Percentage of Total Costs
Component                 |            1 phase  2Id phase  3r phase   1st phase   2d phase   3d phase    Ail phases
A.                3                    _;419.0 - . 2.7                          034.2%      . 18%        12.9%       19.0%      -
.m
=;and
B. . li3i                      31Li_            3.4         9.0        3.2       28.3%       l8%         15.2%       18.8%
B. .s,  . e  _'  '  ..... ' ' .. -.  -. '. ' .'-.
_                    |    [       ~~~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~2.1  29.0  14.2  17.4%-    58%         67.6%       54.60%
0.2        1.0        0.3       1,6%        2%          1.4%        1.8%  0
_________________.___                             6        .1.6     .      5     5%   -32            .   2.4 %o      3.3%
-                                     50.0       21.01.5   12.5%      :.X1%       . O.
0.1- ..4 0:-   1%                           100%        005%       0.70%
~~~~~~ ~~~~12.0                 50.0       21.0      100%        100%        100%   _100%



12
2. Policy and institutional reformns supported by the project
The Social and Fiscal National Identification System (SINTyS) was created on July 13, 1998, with a view to its
eventual institutionalization. It will introduce the use of a single national identifier for people and legal entities,
based on the three main existing identifiers: the social security identifier (CUIL), the tax administration
identifier (CUIT) and the national identifier (DNI). A draft bill for the introduction of the single identifier, called
CUINTyS, has been prepared.
Other actions supported by the project would include a number of legal framework provisions. There is already
in Argentina's Congress a proposed overall confidentiality and privacy of information law, which would fit in
very well with SINTyS' needs. It is expected that SINTyS will participate in its regulation. In addition, legal
provisions will be needed to govern the interchange of data by participating agencies, the legitimization of
SINTyS for facilitating its functioning, oversee its regulation, and to set standards for and conduct verification
of its quality and performance. In Phase III, provisions would be made for SINTyS' long term
institutionalization.
3 Benefits and target population
The project's expected benefits are improved targeting of programs to the socially disadvantaged segments of
society; reduction in social expenditures through more efficient delivery of services;
increases in social security contributions; increases in revenues due to more efficient and effective tax evasion
detection and fraud mitigation; provision of value-added services through the institutional framework and
infrastructure, including better information for decision- and policy-making and for program planning.
The direct beneficiaries of the project in the first instance would be program managers and govermnent officials
in charge of social programs and tax, health, judicial and pension administration at federal and provincial levels,
for whom the project would be an instrument to improve the management and effectiveness of their respective
programs via better targeting and/or the reduction of fraud and leakage's.
The indirect beneficiary of the project is in general the public through fairer tax burdens because of reduced tax
evasion and potential future increases in social and other public programs. In particular, beneficiaries would be
those who should be covered by social programs but are not. This would have a positive impact in terms of
poverty alleviation, although no estimate exists of this potential effect. It should be noted that women and
children are likely to account for a significant share of the poor who should qualify for social programs but do
not at present receive assistance.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements for Phase I:
Phase I is expected to last 2 years (out of a total of 8). The National Director for the SINTyS project will be the
Secretary of Fiscal Equity in the Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers, advised by a Policy Coordination
Committee, chaired by the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers and composed of representatives named by the major
organizations participating in SINTyS5. The day-to day management of the project would be carried out by the
National Director assisted by the 4 managers responsible for respectively, the two substantive components, the
project administration component and the infrastructure component (in the first phase, the Component
Management of the System will be managed directly by the National Director). The responsibility for the
program management component will rest with the National Director. Procurement and accounting would be
carried out by an existing project administration unit in ANSES responsible for the administration of the
National Pension Administration TA Loan (4131 -AR). Annual Project Action Plans will be agreed every year
and revised every six months during supervision missions. Semi-annual progress reports will measure project
performance compared with baselines defined before initiation of each key activity.
Decree of the National of the Executive Power No. 812 of Ir July 1998.



'3
Initial Project Organization Structure
President of Argentina
|Office ofthe Chief of Cabinet of Minister
Secretariatfor Public Funciio    Secretariatfor Fiscal Equ    Secretariatfor Strategic Contro   Secretariatfor
lNational Director: SlNTyS                         Parliamentary
and
Institutional
Relationships
ProjectAdnjtron              Mnag n
Social Coo        FsaCure ovonen
D. Project Rationale
L.Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection
A single long-term investment operation was considered but rejected. The main risk to this operation lies not in
technical complexity but in the need to progressively garner support and obtain buy-in by many institutions in
many jurisdictions whose combined effort is necessary to achieve sustainable benefits. In addition, there is no
information sharing in a systematic way by both inter or intra Federal, Provincial and Municipal Governments,
nor is there any existing appropriate mechanism to do so. Changing this will therefore involve a
institutional/cultural change, which is best obtained in a flexible and participatory manner, which does not lend
itself to rigid preparatory planning. A phased APL provides the needed flexibility, along with suitable exit
strategies, for risk containment.
Expanding any of the existing agency databases to function as the central database was rejected as an initial
premise, as it would introduce a substantial credibility gap which would raise the cost and the time needed to
garner support, as well as requiring substantial modification of the primary business processes of the selected
institution. The creation of a central database for all programs was also rejected for much the same reasons. In
addition, it would introduce early on a substantial technical challenge into what should be a mostly political
effort. Concerns about ownership and security of information also made it implausible to attempt the single
database approach. Interconnecting existing databases by providing a technical, legal and institutional
framework was therefore the only acceptable and viable alternative.
In reference to the technical environment, building a government-owned proprietary network would have
substantially increased the cost, time and complexity of demonstrating the benefits of information sharing. It
might also have introduced a long-term sustainability and efficiency credibility problem. However, the
Argentine information technology/telecommunications environment easily permits the extensive use of
INTERNET, which is a more evolutionary, less costly and demonstrably scalable environment for providing
access to shared information. Furthermnore, by using INTERNET not only do SINTyS participating agencies



14
have easy access to a readily available means of intercommunication, but the expansion of the SINTyS program
also will act as a catalyst to the expansion of INTERNET in Argentina.
2. Major related projects
Sector issue                             Project                   Latest
Form
590
Ratings
lIP  DO
More effective financial management   Provincial Development I (3280-AR)        S    S
More effective financial management   Provincial Development 11 (3877-AR)       S    S
More effective revenue collection     Second Tax Administration Project (3460-AR)   S    S
More effective targeting of beneficiaries    Promin I (3643-AR)                HS  HS
More effective targeting of beneficiaries    Promin 11 (4164-AR)               HS   S
Incomplete data for program evaluation  Secondary Education I Project (3794-AR)  S    S
Incomplete data for program evaluation  Secondary Education 1I Project (3971-AR)  S    S
Incomplete data for program evaluation  Secondary Education III Project (4313-AR)  S    S
More effective health policies and    Provincial Health Development Project (3931-  S    S
provincial hospital effectiveness     AR)
More effective targeting of beneficiaries    Social Protection I (3957-AR)      S    S
More effective targeting of beneficiaries    Social Protection 11 (4195-AR)     S    S
More effective targeting of beneficiaries    Social Protection III (4366-AR)    S    S
More effective targeting of beneficiaries    Social Protection IV (4398-AR)    HS  HS
More effective targeting of beneficiaries    Social Insurance Reform (4002-AR)  HS  HS
More effective targeting and entitlement    National Pension Administration Technical  S    S
criteria, contribution assessments    Assistance (4131-AR)
More effective targeting of beneficiaries    Provincial Reform 11 (4218/20-AR)  S    S
and inefficient revenue collection
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Experience through other Bank projects in cross-checking of information indicated potentially high results by
applying this practice to other databases; for example, cross-checking of information on teachers working in
multiple schools, under the Provincial Reform II (education component) and in controlling medical absences
and health expenditures (health component), resulted in significant savings by detection of fraud and
misallocation. Similar cross-checking is being carried out under the Secondary Education Quality Improvement
Project. The proposed project builds on these early successes to generalize data exchange across all levels of
government in a sustainable manner; it is the first stand-alone Bank project to this effect.
The Bank's experience with improvements of large databases, notably tax collections under the Second Tax
Administration Project (3460-AR), social security payments under the National Pension Administration
Technical Assistance Project (4131-AR), cadastres under the Provincial Development I and 11 (3280-AR) was
brought to bear in the project, in particular in the incremental nature of database improvements to be achieved
and the need to assure quality and access.
The need to build consensus has been explicitly addressed by a phased approach, in which the first phase jointly
focuses on demonstrating early wins and increasing the credibility of the program, while at the same time
preparing the groundwork for the substantial investment to be made in phase II. This approach also permits the
design of an early and inexpensive (both politically and financially) exit strategy (other lessons learnt can be
found in Annex 7).



15
4. Indicators of borrower commitment/ownership
The Government has demonstrated its commitment by a decree creating the SINTyS. Work has begun with the
first participating province, Mendoza, with a formal agreement dated December 2nd, 1998. Other measures of
commitment are given by the Decree of the National Executive Power number 1108 dated September 21, 1998
in which all legal asset transactions must identify participants through CUlT, CUIL or CDI; and provides for
the creation of a SINTyS Manager within the National Social Security Administration.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
*  It would effectively complement the other lines of extensive Bank involvement in the social sectors in
Argentina.
*  The innovative nature of this project (in the use of information and modem technological approach) will
benefit from the Bank's familiarity with world-class consultants and practices worldwide.
*  The Bank's broader perspective encourages a more comprehensive and holistic view of the project's
conceptual design, while bringing to bear the lessons of experience and best practices in projects with
similar characteristics.
* The project's inter-institutional complexity benefits from the Government's established reliance on the
Bank's role as an "honest broker" to facilitate working agreements and cooperation among entities generally
unaccustomed to working together at technical levels.
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
The direct economic benefits of the SINTyS program are difficult to estimate they are entirely
dependent on participating agencies using the information provided, and as such is beyond the scope of the
project. Nevertheless, a very conservative estimate of expected savings from detection of fraud and
misallocations, anticipated tax revenue increases, foreseeable elimination of overlapping or duplicating benefits
payments, etc., gives the following:
Year 1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
Expected Benefits
(US$ millions)
Social Component      0       0      16      16     21      31     46      46     46
Fiscal Component      0       0      25      25     50      75     125    125    175
(a) Total Benefits    0    0      41      41      71     106    171    171    221
Financing                                                             .                  l
IBRD  2       5       6      13      10     6       5      4       3
GOA  0       2       3      4       4       5      4       4      3
(b) Total Investment   2    7       9      17      14     11      9      8       6
Difference (a-b)      -2      -7     32      24     57      95     162    163    215
IRR                   244%
NPV (4.9/)           USS5223



16
2. Financial
The government's total investment requirement of US$83 million should not comprise a significant burden as it
would be spread over the 8-year period for SINTyS' program execution. Moreover, there would be ample time
to prepare for these expenditures, particularly as their largest proportions are estimated to occur in the final 4
years of this period. Furthermore, for the participating agencies, the effects of the SINTyS program are likely to
affect their budget expenses for information systems mainly in the same later years. They are, in addition,
difficult to estimate realistically, but should not pose significant incremental expenses over the present costs of
operating the same systems. Initial estimates indicate that the overall cost of operating SINTyS will be
negligible compared with the savings accrued. Exact numbers are not possible at this time and will be calculated
during phase I, when cost/benefits analyses for phase IT projects will be computed.
3. Technical
The underlying technologies to be used in this project are INTERNET and Virtual Private Network. Using these
two technologies, a nationwide INTRANET will be created to facilitate exchange of information. These
technologies are already in use in Argentina and with deregulation of the telecommunications sector already in
progress and to be completed by end of 1999, the cost of the basic infrastructure will become more competitive.
As SINTyS grows, there is a distinct potential for the various data interchange standards developed through the
project to diverge from any new Government-wide standards (not yet developed). Extensive discussions and
cooperation among the concerned normative bodies will be necessary.
The development of Encryption and Authentication of Data Standards will also require extensive technical
assistance, discussions and agreements, in particular with the Ministry of Justice and the Secretariat of Public
Function.
4. Institutional
In order to build a sustainable operation, comprehensive agreements with participating agencies, provinces and
municipalities will need to be formalized to ensure a high quality of data and services, in a spirit of cooperation
for mutual benefit.
To institutionalize SINTyS as a program that continues to provide benefits, it will be necessary to ensure that a
credible independent agency is created, for which suitable decrees, regulations, organization, staffing and budget
will need to be defined in phase II and provided in phase III.
To protect the rights of the individual, a privacy and confidentiality law must be enacted with provisions for
access to information to enable the individual to submit corrections when appropriate.
The project "management" and project "administration" responsibilities are separated (as indicated in the
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements section, ref. Pg. 12) between the unit subordinate to the National
Director for the former, and an existing project unit in ANSES. The main purpose of this arrangement is to take
advantage of the high, proven competence and experience of the ANSES unit to deal with procurement,
accounting and reporting functions, and to absorb these functions for purposes of SINTyS. It would thereby
avert the usual project execution delays which new units often suffer. The division of labor would also meet the
criterion of obtaining economies of scale. In this connection as well, a Bank team recently assessed the ANSES
unit's performance. A financial management specialist concluded that the unit adequately processed and
controlled SOE actions. For other actions, the unit is now reviewing several Bank-approved systems in order to
select which it might best install and administer. In addition, the review indicated that the unit's procurement
functions were satisfactory for requirements of the project.



17
5. Social
The project is expected to have a positive net social impact. The government social programs and services
likely to be included in the project would be selected on the basis of their contribution to the social and
economic welfare of a large subset of the needy population. Improved government fiscal programs will pave the
way for a more equitable tax and contribution system.
6. Environment assessment:        Environment Category       []A   []B   [X] C
The proposed project is expected to have no environmental impact.
7. Participatory approach
The cooperative nature of the SINTyS makes a participatory approach among participating agencies inherent to
the planning and implementation of the project activities. The above-mentioned cooperation agreements as well
as the work of the Policy Committee will ensure that this participation is extended to the creation of the
institutional, legal and infrastructure framework, thus facilitating ownership and sustainability.
The primary beneficiaries of the social programs will essentially be eligible beneficiaries who are not now
receiving benefits. The beneficiaries of the improved fiscal programs will be the various levels of government
through increased revenue through improved enforcement and increased voluntary compliance, as well as the
taxpaying population as greater fiscal equity is realized. Eventually the whole population will benefit through
value-added services provided by all levels of government.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Sustainability for each individual subproject (social or fiscal) will be sought through preliminary agreements
with concerned agencies before initiating the subproject, and will be confirmed at the end of each phase as a
condition for passing from one phase to the next.
Sustainability of the program has been one of the major driving forces behind project design, and is explicitly
addressed by the inclusion of a separate program management component to institutionalize the SINTyS
program.
The technical environment is inherently sustainable, being composed of standardized private-sector, easily
available services.



18
2. Critical Risks6
Risk                     Risk    Risk Minimization Measure
_ _ _ _ _    _   _   _    _    ~~~~~~Rating
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
Failure to achieve critical mass: Phase I   H     Proper Policy Committee use and an incremental
approach to the enrollment of additional agencies
Phase II & III    M    Achieving demonstrable results in phase I
Failure to demonstrate benefits (phase I)   H     Lack of political will to implement actions to curb
fraud or eliminate misallocation of services
Lack of sustainability due to poor quality of  M  Incremental introduction of a comprehensive quality
services offered by system (phases II & III);     assurance function
Failure to reach the coverage necessary for  H    Active Political Committee action
full SINTyS potential (phase III)
Design for information interchange becomes  M     System affords participants opportunity to readily
outdated due to technological changes; over       access other service providers
time, system loses quality reliability, etc
Information   dissemination   campaigns,  the
Public opposition to perceived invasion of  H     introduction of a suitable privacy and confidentiality
privacy (phase H)                                 of information legal framework, and the perception
of increased services to the public
Lack of counterpart management continuity   H     Mitigation activities, such as the creation of the
Phase I                Policy Committee to provide advice as well as
ensure institutional memory, are at best only
partially effective.
Phase II    M     Institutionalization of program management will be
partially implemented at this stage
Phase III    L     Institutionalization of program management should
be well advanced at this stage
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
Poor implementation capacity in participating     Careful selection and training of participating staff
agencies                   Phase I          H
Phase II & III    M    Can be mitigated through careful selection and
training of participating staff and developing of a
standard approach and model based on phase I
experience
Legal Framework may not permit obtaining    M     Mitigated through prior analysis of legal issues and
all relevant information                          use of risk analysis in the preparation of each
subproject
Lack of on-going agency commitment          M     Mitigated through prior commitment to ensuring the
continuity of benefits obtained
Inadequate political coordination           M     Appropriate use of the Political Committee
Inadequate technical coordination           H     Project management training and technical assistance
Overall Risk Rating                         M
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The perceived invasion of privacy could generate opposition to the project in the second phase. Careful
preparation of a suitable legal framework and adequate information to the public will be critical.
6     Reflecting assumptions in thefourth colunm ofAnnex I



19
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Jffreciveness Conditions
*  Adoption of Operations Manual governing project management and administration
* The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the starl of
project implementation.
H. Readinessfor lmplemetaration
[ T hle engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complcte and ready for the start of
project implementation. [XI Not applicable.
[XI 7he Project Implementation Plon has heen appraised'andfound to be realstic and of sanisfactory qualily.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E ]   The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval (sec procuremcnt annex 4).
The project conplies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Myma L. Alexander                              G         p
Country Director                              S
Task Team Leader
E1 ci          9189 Elb 1   q   'ON YvH.       VATTJ;TMrUf  'rTYvTAT nr )tTa ATWV TT TT fT 'TAA CCTC   VTAT



20
Annex I
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary              Key. Performance Indicators              Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions and Risks
l                     l____________________  j  ________________________________________  l  Supervision [rvision
CAS Objective
Social Services:                              Reports produced by      Lack of political will to take corrective
Improvement in the    Effectiveness: number of identified, entitled  agencies participating in   measures such as curtailing entitlements
efficiency and        households previously not receiving services:  each program, validated
effectiveness of social   Phase I: 150,000                           through surveys and     Inadequate legal/judicial framework to
and fiscal programs       Phase II: 300,000                          analyses when           realize identified potential revenue
Phase III: 50,000                          appropriate             increases.
Efficiency: Number of households incorrectly
receiving benefits;                                                    Introduction of new programs with no
Phase I: 100,000                                                   coordination with SINTyS
Phase II: 200,000
Phase III: 50,000                                                  Lack of political commitment to
Savings:                                                               institutionalize the SINTyS program
Phase I: US$16 million at end of 2nd year
Phase II: US$5M at end of 2nd year, US$1OM                         Lack of political will to enter into inter-
at end of 3rd year, US$15M at end of 4th year                      jurisdictional agreements
Phase III: No new savings.
Fiscal Programs:                                                       Lack of policy evaluation and formulation
Effectiveness: increase in the number of detected                      capacity
non-registered taxpayers or taxpayers identified as
making insufficient payments
Phase I: 3,000
Phase II: 30,000
Phase III: 50,000
Efficiency: increase in collections by year:
Phase I: US$25M at end of 2nd year
Phase II: US$25M at end of 2nd year, US$25M
at end of 3rd year, US$50M at end of 4th year
Phase III: US$50M at end of 2nd year



21
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators               Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions and Risks
Supervision
Project Development                                                                        Failure to achieve critical mass (I & II)
Objectives
Percentage of potential SINTyS client programs  Report produced by   Failure to demonstrate benefits (phase I)
Development of an     participating in SINTyS                       SINTyS at the beginning
permanent information                                              and end of each phase.    Lack of sustainability due to poor quality
exchange system for                                                                        of services offered by the system (phases
social and fiscal                                                                          II & III);
programs for use by
Federal, Provincial and                                                                    Failure to reach the coverage necessary
Municipal                                                                                  for the realization of the full SINTyS
Governments                                                                                potential (phase III)
Public opposition to perceived invasion of
privacy (phase II)
Lack of counterpart management
l_____________________ ________________________________________________ ________________________  continuity (phases I & II & III
Project Outputs    1. Number of agencies using consistent common
Common consistent    processes to identify entities and assets     A. Semi-Annual          Poor implementation capacity in
processes in place for      Phase I: Secretariat of Social Development,  Progress Report   participating agencies
registering people,         National Social Security Administration,    B. Comparison with
legal entities and           Secretariat of Employment and Training,   census and other    Legal Framework may not permit
assets.                     and other selected federal, provincial and  existing data      obtaining all relevant information
People and legal             municipal entities
entities identified with    Phase II: 10 additional Provinces, others                      Lack of on-going agency commitment
a single, unique key.        such as Ministry of Justice, National People
Availability of              Registry, Health.                                             Inadequate political
information on family        Phase III: Remaining Provinces                                Coordination
relationships.        2. Percentage of the population uniquely
Availability of      identified and with family relationships                              Inadequate technical coordination
information for             Phase I: 20% of population (7 million)
eligibility for social      Phase II: 50% of population (17 million)                       Insufficient counterpart funding
services and fiscal         Phase III: 80% of population (28 M)
programs.             % of information for eligibility available: 70% for
participating programs within 2 years of
. participation in SINTyS; 90% within five years.  __ _.



22
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions and Risks
Supervision
Components
A. Improvement of    A. Phase I: US$4.1 million;
Social Service          Phase II: US$9.0 million
Delivery                Phase III: US$ 2.7 million
B. Improvement of    B. Phase I: US$ 3.4 million
Fiscal Programs         Phase II: US$9.0 million
C. Framework and            Phase III: US$3.2 million
Infrastructure    C. Phase I: US$ 2.1 million
D. System                   Phase II: 29.0 million
Management              Phase III: 14.2 million
E. Project           D. Phase I: US$0.2 million
Administration.         Phase II: US$ 1.0 millionr
Phase III: US$ 0.3 million
E. Phase I: US$ 0.6 million
Phase II: US$1.6 million
Phase III: US$0.5 million



23
Annex 2
Project Description
The project has five components: two substantive components, through which the benefits of the system will be
realized; one enabling component and two management components. The substantive components are composed
of 40-60 relatively independent activities, grouped into sub-components by type. Because of the incremental
nature of the first phase, not all activities have been defined. New activities will be selected based on technical
feasibility, political willingness to take action, and cost-justification.
Political willingness will be embodied in a formal agreement between SINTyS and participating organizations,
which would involve understandings with SINTyS on their obligations under the system, the envisaged results
and outcome of this participation, and the measures to be taken to help ensure their sustainability. Further, these
agreements would specify rules for information sharing and interchange, and provisions for retrofitting the
technologies systems' structures and codes in proceeding with Phase II. An additional agreement to be entered
into will deal with the requirements for maintaining appropriate quality of system data and accessibility to it.
This is likely to entail some mechanism for regular quality checks, whose results would be published and widely
disseminated, perhaps monthly. Consideration would be given to removing the eligibility for involvement in
SINTyS for any organization whose quality of participation falls below standards.
Component A: Improving Social Services
This component aims at improving delivery of social services, in the first phase by the Social Security Services,
Health and Social Assistance, and in a second phase other areas such as education. SINTyS will permit the
verification of the social attributes of all inhabitants, through the coordination of present and future data bases at
national and provincial levels, thus identifying incorrectly awarded social benefits, identifying those who have
not yet received benefits and validated benefits correctly granted. To accomplish this, it will be necessary to:
1. Identify the whole population
2. Identify family ties and nature of dependency
3. Categorize social programs according to:
a.    Geographic areas
b.    Government level: Federal, Provincial and Municipal
c.    Typology: Social status/income:
(i)    Health Care Coverage
(ii)   Retirement or pension
(iii)   Non-contributive pension
(iv)   Welfare program
(v)    Employment program
(vi)   Unemployment program
(vii)  Other
4. Define eligibility criteria: Conditions to be fulfilled for access to a social program
5. Define dependency criteria: Conditions that determine whether a federal, provincial or municipal
program is applicable
6. Validation of the individual's right to receive a benefit



24
Component B: Inmroving Fiscal Efficiency
This component aims at improving the detection of tax evasion through the analysis of national and provincial
registries holding information regarding individual's and legal entities' wealth attributes, beginning in the first
phase with real estate and vehicles, among others. This will permit participating agencies to imnprove their
control of the different fiscal and social security obligations.
Component C: Institutional Framework, Infrastructure and Common Services
The primary objective of this component is to design and build a robust yet flexible institutional framework and
supporting infrastructure to create a sustainable, effective and efficient technical environment for sharing useful
information among participating agencies so that the social and fiscal components achieve their objectives and
continue to derive benefits. A second objective is to enable agencies at all levels to coordinate and cooperate
individual efforts in developing policies and programs for implementing and supporting a "single window
delivery framework" for cost effective, efficient access to government services.
Component D: Management of the System
The primary objective of the Program Management component is to develop and implement the structure and
processes which will initially control the execution of the project and eventually manage the on-going SINTyS
program to ensure that the benefits from the first two substantive components continue to be derived. This
would include interjurisdictional coordination and legal agreements.
Component E: Project Administration
This component will provide the administrative, accounting and other services that will support the execution of
the project.



2S
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs (phase I)
I Project Component                                        Local           Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
A. Improvement of Social Services                             4.1                          4.1
B. Improvement of Fiscal Efficiency                           3.4                          3.4
C. Infrastructure                                             1.8             0.3          2.1
D. Management of the System                                   0.2                          0.2
E. Project Administration                                     0.6                          0.6
Total          10.1            0.3          10.4
PPF Reimbursement                                             1.5                          1.5
Front-end Fee                                                                 0.1          0.1
Total Project Cost        11.6            0.4          12.0



26
Annex 4
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement of goods under the project will be conducted in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1996, revised August 1996, September 1997" and
January 1999. The procurement of consultants will follow the Bank's guidelines, "Selection of Consultants by
World Bank Borrower, January 1997 revised September 1997 and January 1999". To expedite implementation,
an existing experienced project administration unit will carry out procurement and train procurement staff.
Procurement methods (Table A)
A general procurement notice will be made quarterly in the Development Business; all other advertisement will
be done through the local press. The notice will request expressions of interest, which will be maintained by a
procurement firm hired to assist the PCU, and from which long- and short-lists of consulting firms will be
prepared.
For the procurement of goods, International Competitive Bidding (employing standard Bank bidding
documents) would be used for contracts estimated at US$200,000 or more, and may be used for lesser amounts;
however, all contracts are expected to be less than this amount. National Competitive Bidding (employing
standard documents to be developed) may be used for contracts estimated at less than US$200,000; Shopping
may be used for contracts estimated at equal to or less than US$ 100,000.
Consultants' assignments other than individual consultants and manpower-intensive service contracts (see
below) will be procured through Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS). Individual consultants will be
procured in accordance with the procedure in Part V of the Consultant Guidelines. The Bank's Standard Request
for Proposals and Forms of Contract will be used. Manpower-intensive service contracts involving repetitive
activities (e.g., file and data-base verification and clean-up) will be procured through Least Cost Selections
Method (LCSM).
A registry of individual consultants and firms will be compiled based on international and local advertisement
requesting expressions of interest and statements of capabilities, experience and staffing. A report on the
contents and pre-qualification decision on each entry of the registry will be sent to the Bank every quarter. All
individuals and firms contracted financed through the project will be added to the registry.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Full prior review by the Bank will be carried out for the all Short Lists, Terms of Reference, Specifications for
Equipment, Evaluation Criteria and Evaluation Reports prior to awarding. The Bank and the Borrower will
agree on Standard Bidding Documents and Contracts by effectiveness. Prior review will assume that these
documents are used throughout. Copies of all contracts will be sent to the Bank after signing.
Acquisition of miscellaneous supplies and operational expenses of less than $1,500 per contract, up to a
maximum of US$50,000 per year for the project may be carried without prior review.



27
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds
The loan for the first phase of the program will be disbursed over a period of 2 years. Disbursements will be
made against eligible project expenditures for goods and services, financed at 100% (82% of in the case of
goods not procured by a tax-exempt procurement agency to the borrower).
Use of statements of expenses
All contracts for the first phase are expected to be less than US$200,000; therefore all disbursements will be
made against Statements of Expenditures except for those subject to procurement prior review. Detailed
supporting documents showing evidence of payments to contractors and suppliers will be kept at the PCU.
These documents will be made available to Bank supervision missions and the annual audits. By no later than
January 31, 2000, the Borrower may document disbursements through the use of Project Management Reports.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish in a bank satisfactory to
the IBRD a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PCU under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
IBRD. The IBRD would, upon request, make an Authorized Allocation of US$1.0 million (US$2 million if
Project Management Reports are used). Retro-active financing for up to US$1.0 million would be possible for
eligible expenditures after January 1 ", 1999. Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted
quarterly or when 80 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment
application would be supported by the necessary documentation, the SA bank statement, and a reconciliation of
this bank statement. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



28
Annex 4
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                 Procurement Method                        Total Cost (including
contingencies)
ICB          NCB             Other          N.B.F
1. Goods
Computer Equipment                                      1.0             0.4                               1.4
(1.0)          (0.4)                             (1.4)
2. Services
Consulting Firms                                                        4.7                               4.7
(4.7)                             (4.7)
Individual Consultants                                                  3.0                               3.0
(1.5)                             (1.5)
3. Miscellaneous
Incremented operational                                                 1.3                               1.3
expenses                                                               (0.8)                             (0.8)
Front-end Fee                                                           0.1                               0.1
(0.1)                             (0.1)
PPF Refinancing                                                         1.5                               1.5
(1.5)                             (1.5)
Total                                                1.0           11.0                               12.0
(1.0)          (9.0)                            (10.0)
Note:   N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any
reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details
of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/lIDA credit



29
Annex 4
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                                    Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                                      (including
Expenditure Category                                                                                    contingencies)
QCBS  |QBS             SFB        LCS         CQ        Other    N.B.F.
A. Firms                    4.3                               0.4                                             4.7
(4.3)                            (0.4)                                            (4.7)
B. Individuals                                                                      3.0                       3.0
____________________  ________                                 ~~~~~~(1.5)  __ _ _ _(1.5)
Total    4.3                                0.4                   3.0                       7.7
(4.3)                            (0.4)                 (1.5)                      (6.2)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



30
Annex 4
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review8
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
1. Goods
Computer Equipment         <100,000         National Shopping                  0.4
Computer Equipment         < 200,000        NCB                                1.0
2. Services
Individual Consultants                      Indiv.                             3.0
Consulting Firms                            QCBS                               4.3
Consulting Firms                            LC                                 0.4
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:     9.1
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
Goods                                                   1.4             (1)
Services                                                6.2            100%
Incremented Operational Expenses                        0.8             (1)
PPF Refinancing                                         1.5
Front-end Fee                                           0.1
Total            10.0
(1) The percentage of expenditures to be financed by the Bank are: (a) 100% in the ease of items procured
through the services of a tax-exempt procurement agent; or (b) 82% in the case of all other goods.
aThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurenent Documentation" and contact the Regional
Procurenent Adviserfor guidance.



31
Annex 5
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
95,000              86,400
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        15
First Bank mission (identification)            11/17/1997           11/17/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     5/3/1998            1/14/1999
Negotiations                                    6/8/1998            3/16/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/15/1998            5/1/1999
Prepared by: Secretariat of Fiscal Equity in the Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
Preparation assistance: PPF
Bank team who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Luis-Jose Mejia                Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist
Lou Enoff                   Management and Social Security Specialist
David Cooney                           Planning Specialist
Andrea Neill                          Privacy Law Expert
Margaret Mahdi                           System Specialist
Herman Nissenbaum                             Consultant
Harjit Singh                   Consultant, Information Technology
Judith Davidson-Palmer                 Human Resources Specialist
Claire Philippon                      Jr. Operations Assistant



32
Annex 6
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Preliminary Plan
Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Miscellaneous Decrees
Agreement with the Province of Mendoza
Miscellaneous tables concerning social and fiscal programs
*Including electronic files.



33
Annex 7
Application of Lessons Learned
Lack of Ownership:
Supplier-driven objectives                  Cooperation among agencies is explicit - without it, programs cannot be implemented.
Inadequate participation by stakeholders and/or  An incremental approach with formal agreements detailing mutual responsibilities.
beneficiaries in project design stages.
Needfor a Champion                    .    A strongly committed champion exists, in the right place in government to lead the project.
Weak borrower management:
Shortage of skilled project managers        A project administration unit with many years' experience with Bank projects has .been
retained. In addition, component managers will receive training on planning and change
management.
Inadequate monitoring, evaluation and       An adequate financial management system is in operation; it will be upgraded to LACI-
accountability.                            compatibility within the first year of project implementation.
Inadequate change/closure of nonperforming  Performance indicators will assist in identifying slow performing components; a decision on
component.                                 their continuation will be formally made during supervision missions, but can be made at
any other time if necessary. Clear exit strategies exist for the substantive project
components, and for the first phase in aggregate.
Supplier Shortcomings:
Insufficiently experienced staff            As mentioned above, managers will be trained and also supported by an experienced project
administrator. All other activities will be carried out by consulting firms with a mandate to
institutionalize their activities.
Inadequate monitoring and evaluation, and  Agreement has been reached to base no-objection requests on agreed annual implementation
accountability                             plans. Responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation are part of the project administration
unit's terms of reference.
OED: Lessons and Practices - Technica/Assistance, Report Numnber 7 (Day 1996),



34
Annex 8
Schematic of Internet Service Providers in Argentina
258 Kbps.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~52 Kbp
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  76\8Kbpse
<r            :H   \ /  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mp



ANNEX   9                                                                                CAS Annex 138
Generated: 03/25/99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                          disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 59
Active Projects
AR-PE-5968       1987   SEGBA                             SEGBA V                                276.00        0.00        0.00        48.13       48.13        0.00      HU          U
AR-PE-5977       1991   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                WTR SUPPLY II                          100.00        0.00       36.00        17.25       53.25       17.25       S          S
AR-PE-6036       1993   GOVERNMENT                        YACYRETA II                            300.00        0.00        0.00           .48         .47       0.00      HU          U
AR-PE-6003       1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA           RD MAINT & REHAB SCT                   340.00        0.00        0.00        19.52       13.54        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-6062       1994   MIN OF ECONOMY                    CAPITAL MKT TA                           8.50        0.00        0.00         2.15        2.13        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-6025       1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   lEA           MTNAL CHlLD HLTH & N                   100.00        0.00        0.00         5.64        3.68        0.00      HS         ES
AR-PE-6060       1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                MUNIC DEVT II                           210.00        0.00        0.00       146.61      -23.21        0.00      HS         HS
AR-PE-6018       1995   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                PROV DEVT II                           225.00        0.00        0.00       163.02        6.68        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-5992       1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   IEA           SECONDARY ED I                         190.00        0.00        0.00       122.76      112.00        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-45687      1996   REP. OF ARGRNTINA                 H.INSURANCE TA                          25.00        0.00        0.00         4.06        1.31        0.00      HS         HS
AR-PE-38883      1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             ENT.EXPORT DV.                          38.50        0.00        0.00        14.46       14.45        5.51       S          S
AR-PE-37049      1996   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                       16.00        0.00        0.00        15.32       11.32        0.00       U          U
AR-PE-34091      1996   REP OF ARGENTINA                  HIGHER ED REFORM                       165.00        0.00        0.00       105.35       77.94       61.01       S          S
AR-PE-6057       1996   GOV'T OF ARGENTINA                SECNDARY ED 2                          115.50        0.00        0.00        95.18       53.95      -20.32       S          S
AR-PE-6055       1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA                MINING SCTR DEVT                        30.00        0.00        0.00         6.36        -.74        0.00      HS         HS
AR-PE-6040       1996   GOVERNMENT                        FORESTRY/DV                             16.00        0.00        0.00        11.34          .66       0.00       S          S
AR-PE-6030       1996   REPUB OF ARGENTINA                PROVCL HLTH SCTR DEV                   101.40        0.00        0.00        80.00       55.73        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-46821      1997   GOVT.OF ARG                       PENSION TA                              20.00        0.00        0.00        11.64        1.87        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-43418      1997   REPUBLIC OF ARG                   AIDS PREV.&STD CTRL                     15.00        0.00        0.00         8.88          .12       0.00      HS          HS
AR-PE-40808      1997   GOA                               N.FOREST/PROTC                          19.50        0.00        0.00        16.98       -1.59        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-39584      1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 B.A.URB.TSP                            200.00        0.00        0.00       160.85       20.86        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-6059       1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                MTL.CHD.HTH.2                          100.00        0.00        0.00        84.07        -.95        0.00       S         HS
AR-PE-6052       1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 FLOOD PROTECTION                       200.00        0.00        0.00       192.37       26.37        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-6010       1997   GOA                               PROV AG DEVT I                         125.00        0.00        0.00       122.15       10.09        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-5980       1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 PROV ROADS                             300.00        0.00        0.00       293.90       75.89        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-55935      1998   GOVERNMENT                        EL NINO EMERGENCY                       42.00        0.00        0.00        41.00       21.67          .34      S          U
AR-PE-55477      1998   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 MINING TA                               39.50        0.00        0.00        35.50       18.60        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-52590      1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT                    450.00        0.00        0.00       387.46      170.98        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-51695      1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(R.NEGRO)                          75.00        0.00        0.00        25.00       16.67        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-51694      1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(S.JUAN)                           50.00        0.00        0.00        40.00       25.00        0.00       s          S
AR-PE-51693      1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(SALTA)                            75.00        0.00        0.00        30.00        0.00        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-50714      1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             SECOND.ED 3                            119.00        0.00        0.00        84.25       70.82        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-50713      1998   MINISTRY OF ECONOMY               MODEL COURT DEV.                         5.00        0.00        0.00         5.00        1.42        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-49269      1998   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                SOC PROTEC 3                           284.00        0.00        0.00       224.69      -59.31        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-6050       1998   REP OF ARGENTINA                  POLLUTION MGT.                          18.00        0.00        0.00        18.00        3.52        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-6041       1998   GOVERNMENT                        SMALL FARMER DV.                        75.00        0.00        0.00        61.38       10.15       -6.79       S          S
AR-PE-6006       1998   MIN. OF ECONOMY                   P.RFM(TUCUMAN)                         100.00        0.00        0.00        45.00        0.00        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-62992      1999   GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA           SPEC REPURCEASE                        505.05        0.00        0.00       505.05        0.00        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-62991      1999   GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA           SPECIAL SAL (SSAL)                   2,525.25        0.00        0.00    1,500.00         0.00        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-57449      1999   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             ARG YEAR 2000                           30.30        0.00        0.00        30.30        0.00        0.00       S          S
AR-PE-6058       1999   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             SOC.PROTECT 4                           90.75        0.00        0.00        90.75        1.57        0.00      HS         HS
Total                                                                                          7,720.25        0.00       36.00    4,871.85       845.04       57.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



CAS Annex B8
Generated: 03/25/99
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               2,812.40            8,391.48           11,203.88
of which has been repaid:                 213.38            3,388.02            3,601.40
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,470.86            5,006.25           12,477.11
Amount sold                      :                 0.00               12.79               12.79
Of which repaid               :                0.00               12.79               12.79
Total Undisbursed                :            4,871.85                 2.75            4,874.60
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (RS = highly Satisfactory, S   satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



ANNEX 10
Argentina at a glance                                                            9/16198
Latin   Upper.          ,                    , A  __
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America   middle-
Argentina  & Carib.  income      Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                    35.2       494      571                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                8,570     3,880     4,520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                  302.0     1,917    2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97                                                                   l
Population (%)                                       1.1       1.7      1.5     GNP                            Gross
Labor force()                                       1.9      2.3       1.9
per                          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                           capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  26
Urban population (% of total population)             88        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     73        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)              22        32        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            2                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               64        73        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  4        13        15
Gross primary enrollment (%/of school-age population)  107    111       107          Arentina
Male                                               .,        ,.        ,.             Upper-middle-income group
Female                                             .,_.._..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                         51.2   110.9    298.7    322.7
Gross domestic investmentGDP               30.7    17.5      18.5      18.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP           9.2      8.2      8.9       8.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 34.0    19.3      18.1      18.2
Gross national savingslGDP                 34.1    14.8       16.5     16.4
Current account balance/GDP                 1.3    -2.6       -1.3     -2.9     Domestic   -
Interest payments/GDP                       0.9     3.3        1.9      2.0     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                             18.1    47.3       32.4     32.4
Total debt service/exports                 34.4    82.8       47.2     49.3                     v
Present value of debWGDP                     .        ..     29.5
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..    277.7        ..
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                0.6      3.8      4.8       8.6      4.0          ArgentMa
GNP per capita                    -1.9      2.9      3.7      7.1       3.1              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      2.8      8.5     6.7       9.1       6.5             _                         .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GOP)                                                                      40
Agriculture                                 8.2      7.8      7.7       7.3       .
Industry                                   50.9    37.4      35.5      36.4    20-
Manufacturing                            39.1    27.4       24.7     24.8
Services                                   41.0    54.8      56.8      56.3    0o
92   93   94    v    e   97
Private consumption                        56.6      ..        ..        ..   -20 -
General government consumption              9.4       ..       ..        ..                  GDI           GDP
Imports of goods and services               5.9     6.3       9.2       9.4    _
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 1.2      2.8       3.0      3.3   100
Industry                                   -1.5     3.5       5.0      11.2    89
Manufacturing                             -1.3     3.0       5.3       9.2    60
Services                                    2.1      4.1      4.9       7.7    40
Private consumption                          ..                                              ..2.. .2 .
General government consumption               ..                                        92   93                    97
Gross domestic investment                  -4.8      7.5       8.8     26.5    20
Imports of goods and services               1.1    19.5       18.2     27.1            -    Exports     :imports
Gross national product                     -0.4      4.2       4.6      8.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-orouD averaoe. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation(%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                             200
Consumer prices                                   ..       ..        0.2       0.5    150
Implicit GDP deflator                         433.3      75.7        1.5       -0.5    100 S
Government finance                                                                      so -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      o 7 0
Current revenue                                   ..       ..       15.4      16.7      -50     92    03    04    ss   00    97
Current budget balance                            ..       ..       -0.8       -0.4                 CGDP deflator   COCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..       ..       -1.8       -1.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1976     1986       1996       1997      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..       ..    23,493    24,970       30,000
Food                                             ..      ..      2,203     2,148      25.000
Meat                                             .        ..     1,955     2,158      20,000
Manufactures                                                    12,004    13,139
Total imports (cif) .o.                                           22,179    24,619
Food                                                                                  10,000
Fuel and energy                                  .        ..     1,009     1,022       50.00
Capital goods                                    .        ..     5,249     5,996 
01   92   93  94  95   96  97
Export prce index (1995=100)                                         104       104
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..        104       106                t Exports      U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..       ..        101        98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1976      1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (I)
Exports of goods and services                 4,609    8,433      27,037    29,318      0
Imports of goods and services                 3,468    6,486      27,910    34,899
Resource balance                               1,141    1,947       -873    -5,581     -
Net income                                     -508   -4,808      -3,248    -4,005
Net current transfers                             ..        2        334       346     .2
Current account balance                         657   -2,859      -3,787    -9,240     -3
Financing items (net)                           261     1,976      7,563    12,302
Changes in net reserves                        -918       883     -3,776    -3,062    |4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            .    4,427      19,745    22,807
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             2.OOE-9  9.00E-5        1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           9,278   52,450     96,677   104,539
IBRD                                          343    1,140       5,372     5,494                          A: 5,494               |
IDA                                             0         0          0         0    I          266210
Total debt service                             1,616    7,323     14,965    17,264                                     D. 4,767
IBRD                                           44      210        608        635
IDA                                             0         0          0         0                                       E: 11,215
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 0         3
Official creditors                             42      268       1,449       758
Private creditors                           1,078      375       4,709     6,690
Foreign direct investment                       0      574       1,936     3,000
Portfolio equity                                                                                     F: 50,194
World Bank program
Commitments                                   115      724        946      1,221     A-IBRD                          E-silateral
Disbursements                                  20      408       1,077      797      8 - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           19      134        282        299     C-IMF                          G - Short-term
Net flows                                       1      273        795       498    1
Interest payments                              25       75        326        335
Net transfers                                 -24      198        469        162
Development Economics                                                                                                      9/16198



