Report No. PID6061
PID6061
Project Name                     Argentina-Social and Fiscal National...
Identification System APL
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       ARPA55461
Borrower                         Ministry of Economy
Implementing Agency              Secretariat for Fiscal Equity
Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
Av. Julio A. Roca 782, 1067 Capital Federal.
Telephone/fax: 54.1.343.0181/89
Date this PID prepared           April 1999
Appraisal Date                   February 1999
Date of Board Presentation       April 20,1999
Country and Sector Background. The Government's social benefit programs
require up-to-date information on people, legal entities, and their
relationships to the programs and to each other for the accurate determination
of entitlements and payments. At present, registries on these data share
information imperfectly (if at all). This precludes the cross-checking among
them that is needed, e.g., for avoidance of benefit duplication as well as
improved registry data integrity. Better information would also permit
increasingly targeted allocations of public funds in the health and social
security sectors. It likewise would be a potent tool for reduction of tax
evasion.
Project Objectives. To identify social and/or fiscal attributes of physical
and legal persons in Argentina, through a sustainable information exchange
system, aimed at improving the efficiency, effectiveness and impact of social
services and fiscal programs at all levels of government in Argentina.
The proposed Project would entail the development of collaborative facilities
and arrangements for facilitating the exchange of fiscal and social sector
information among federal, provincial and municipal agencies. In the first
instance, the participants would include the National Social Security
Administration (ANSES), National Registry of People, Secretariat of Social
Development, Federal Public Revenue Administration, Ministries of Justice and
Labor, along with the Province of Mendoza and others to be determined. By
supporting the creation of more accurate data on all inhabitants and legal
entities, the project is expected to improve the delivery of social program
benefits. It should also lead to the realization of significant expenditure
economies which could permit future increases in social and other public
programs. .
The incremental nature of the proposed Project, as well as the sensitivity of
some of its aspects,   require consensus-building and establishing credibility
based on proven results. For this purpose, the initial two year phase of the
project would be directed to putting in place basic information exchanges
among a limited number of programs so as to show their benefits to additional
potential stakeholders. It would also seek to win the consensus of enough



other agencies for future broader scale participation. The envisaged second
(four year) phase would replace the initial ad hoc, basic exchange procedures
with a more systematic methodology supported by an Internet-enabled technology
infrastructure. It also would begin to institutionalize SINTyS. The third
phase would introduce suitable mechanisms for SINTyS' long term independent
functioning and sustainability.
Project Description. The project would be implemented over an eight-year
period starting in mid-1999. It would finance technical assistance, consultant
services and the acquisition of computer and telecommunications equipment for
five components: (a) Improvement of Social Services Activities to improve the
identification of individuals, entities and relationships through information
interchanges, and to cross-check this data's completeness, accuracy and
reliability for uses in social security, health and other programs; (b)
Improvement of Fiscal Efficiency. Activities to improve information
interchanges and to cross-check and verify the completeness, accuracy and
reliability of agencies' data for preventing, detecting and discouraging tax
evasion; (c) Institutional Framework, Infrastructure and Common Services.
Activities to establish a legal and technology infrastructure within a
comprehensive institutional framework; including the testing and validation of
Intranet-based systems; and the preparations of measures for protection of
accuracy, privacy and other rights regarding data handled through SINTyS; (d)
Management of the System Activities to oversee direction of the project and
to eventually manage an ongoing SINTyS program; (e) Project Administration
.The National Project Director (the Secretary of Fiscal Equity in the Office
of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers) would be assisted in day-to-day
management of the project by a project administration unit in the Secretariat
who would work in close collaboration with another project administration unit
in ANSES for procurement and accounting.
Project Financing. The Project will involve expenditures of US$83 million. The
Bank will contribute 65 percent and the Ministry of Economy the balance. The
Bank's support would be in the form of Adaptable Program Lending and consist
of a series of loans. The first of these would be for US$10 million.
Sustainability will be facilitated by the Policy Coordination Committee
created for the SINTyS program which is chaired by the Chief of Cabinet of
Ministers, and includes the National Director and the main providers of
information. This would be supported by agreements with each of the
participating agencies, and bolstered by the project's provisions for
institutionalizing the SINTyS program. In addition, Argentina's technical
environment for the shared information exchange is inherently sustainable,
consisting of readily available, standard private sector services. Project
provisions call for an examination of the eventual privatization of the
management of the infrastructure and infrastructure services.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations. Many lessons have been drawn from
technical assistance projects, which this project attempts to address, as
follows:
The Bank's experiences with efforts to upgrade large database systems in
Argentina were brought to bear on the project, particularly the importance of
incremental, carefully sequenced changes and the need to assure quality and
access. Project design also took into account experiences elsewhere in
implementing public information standards, confidentiality and data access
rules.
The need for a phased approach as well in order to build consensus and
establish credibility in preparing the way for substantial undertakings, as
- 2-



well as permitting well designed, clear exit opportunities if later
developments indicate their need.
Reduce project focus and complexity to an implementable minimum whose results
can be expanded on and replicated. I
Keep the project owner- and program-neutral to avoid potential conflicts,
demonstrate transparency and ensure sustainability in the face of political
change.
Ensure on-going political commitment through a senior-level Coordination
Committee.
Plan for an early institutionalization of the management of the network to
minimize inevitable inter-institutional conflicts.
Poverty Category. The proposed project is not poverty targeted and no estimate
of the potentially affected population now exists. However, women and children
are likely to account for a significant share of the poor who should qualify
for social programs but do not presently receive such help.
Environmental Aspects. The proposed project is not expected to have any
environmental impacts.
Program Objective Categories. The primary category is Public Sector Management
(BY).
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H St., NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
This PID processed the week ending April 9, 1999.
- 3-



