Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4459-AR
Loan Agreement
(Social and Fiscal National Identification System Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 27, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4459-AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 27, 1999, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated March 18, 
1999, which letter describes the Borrower’s program for developing a social and fiscal 
national identification system (the Program); 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms part of the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the first phase of the Program, upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
Page  2
follows:  
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under 
the 
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"AFIP" means the Borrower’s Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos 
(Federal Public Revenues Administration); 
(b)
"ANSeS" means the Borrower’s Administración Nacional de la Seguridad 
Social (National Social Security Administration); 
(c)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(e)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring indicators and 
implementation timetable;  
(f)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"PAU" means any of the administration units referred to in Section 3.04 
(c) (i) of this Agreement; 
(h)
"Policy Coordination Committee" means the committee established pursuant 
to Article 4 of the SINTyS Decree; 
(i)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter from the Bank to the 
Borrower dated January 29, 1998 (no. P-337-AR); 
(k)
"RNP" means the Borrower’s Registro Nacional de las Personas (National 
Registry of Persons); 
(l)
"SEF" means the Borrower’s Secretaría de Equidad Fiscal (Fiscal Equity 
Secretariat) within the Borrower’s Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros (Office of the 
Chief of Cabinet of Ministers); 
(m)
"SINTyS" means the Borrower’s Sistema de Identificación Nacional 
Tributario y Social (Social and Fiscal National Identification System) created 
pursuant to the SINTyS Decree; 
(n)
"SINTyS Decree" means the Borrower’s Presidential Decree no. 812, 
published in the Borrower’s Boletín Oficial (Official Gazette) on July 16, 1998; 
(o)
"SISFAM" means the Borrower’s Sistema Unico de Identificación y Registro 
de Familias de Beneficiarios de Programas Sociales (Identification and Registry System 
of Families of Beneficiaries of Social Programs); and
(p) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to SEF. 
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ten 
million Dollars ($10,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1.0%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
Page  4
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six  months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. The Secretario (Secretary) of SEF, or any person so authorized in 
writing to the Bank by said Secretary, is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be 
carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, financial and administrative standards and practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, through SEF: 
(a)
issue a manual, amendable from time to time and in any case satisfactory 
to the Bank and consistent with the terms of this Agreement, which sets forth the 
rules and procedures for carrying out the Project; and 
(b)
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, adhere to the 
Project implementation timetable set forth in the Implementation Letter.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, throughout the course of Project 
implementation:
(a)
maintain within SEF a cadre of four managers to assist the SEF Secretario 
(Secretary) in carrying out Project management responsibilities (one manager to be 
responsible for supervising the implementation of Part A of the Project, the second 
manager for supervising the implementation of Part B of the Project, the third manager 
for supervising the implementation of Part C of the Project and the fourth manager for 
supervising general Project administration, with assistance from the PAU, under Part E 
of the Project; the SEF Secretario shall supervise implementation of Part D of the 
Project);
(b)
maintain the SINTyS Policy Coordination Committee fully staffed and 
operational;
(c)
(i) maintain fully staffed and operational the administration unit 
referred to in Section 3.04 of the April 17, 1997 loan agreement between the Borrower 
and the Bank for loan 4131-AR and financed in part with the proceeds of said loan (or 
any other administrative unit acceptable to the Bank for purposes of the Project); and 
(ii) cause the PAU to assist SEF in carrying out Part E of the Project;
(d)
with respect to each of the activities covered by Parts A.1 (a) through 
A.1 (j) of the Project and Parts B.1 (a) through B.1 (g) of the Project, not carry out 
any such activity as part of the Project absent prior approval by the Bank of a 
written SEF proposal for that activity, which proposal includes, inter alia:  (i) a 
statement of the objectives of the activity; (ii) evidence of institutional 
arrangements that will promote the execution and sustainability of the activity 
Page  5
(including signed activity cooperation agreements with collaborating federal, 
provincial and/or municipal agencies); (iii) a description of the technical means by 
which data will be cross-checked and verified; (iv) a description of the required 
legal and logistical arrangements, if any, to secure coordination, provide security of 
data and protect privacy; (v) a summary of benefits expected to be derived from such 
activity; (vi) a statement of costs to be incurred in carrying out such activity; and 
(vii) a time-bound action plan for carrying out the activity; 
(e)
with respect to Part A.2 of the Project, carry out or cause to be carried 
out exercises set forth therein in up to four sequential packages of approximately 
five inter-related exercises per package, with each such package costing no more than 
$250,000 equivalent.  No individual exercise need achieve identifiable benefits, but 
each package of exercises must demonstrate identifiable benefits, satisfactory to the 
Bank, before a subsequent package of exercises can be initiated.  Such benefits shall 
include all of the following:  (i) social or fiscal benefits identified through 
cost-benefit or least-cost analysis techniques; (ii) relevance to and consistency with 
overall objectives of Part A of the Project; (iii) evidence of ownership by promoters 
of the package; (iv) favorable prospects for proper subsequent long-term 
implementation and sustainability of package techniques; and
(f)
with respect to Part B.2 of the Project, carry out or cause to be carried 
out exercises set forth therein in up to four sequential packages of approximately 
five inter-related exercises per package, with each such package costing no more than 
$250,000 equivalent.  No individual exercise need achieve identifiable benefits, but 
each package of exercises must demonstrate identifiable benefits, satisfactory to the 
Bank, before a subsequent package of exercises can be initiated.  Such benefits shall 
include all of the following:  (i) social or fiscal benefits identified through 
cost-benefit or least-cost analysis techniques; (ii) relevance to and consistency with 
overall objectives of Part B of the Project; (iii) evidence of ownership by promoters 
of the package; (iv) favorable prospects for proper subsequent long-term 
implementation and sustainability of package techniques.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Project monitoring indicators set 
forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about sixty days after the conclusion of each calendar semester 
throughout the course of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar semester preceding the date of said report (the first such report shall cover 
the last calendar semester of 1999 and be prepared by the Borrower within the first 
sixty days of 2000);
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about sixty days after the conclusion of each calendar year 
throughout the course of Project implementation, an annual Project action plan setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the twelve months following such 
preparation, based on the conclusions of the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and the Bank’s views on the matter; and (d)
carry out the action plans 
referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section and Section 3.04 (d) (vi) of this 
Agreement, which plans may be revised by the Borrower with approval of the Bank.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months prior to the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain, or cause to be 
established and maintained, a financial management system, including records and 
separate accounts, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than January 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
Page  7
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the SINTyS Decree shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to in the opinion of the 
Bank affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations in respect of the Project. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
that SEF has issued and put into effect the Operational Manual; and 
(b)
that the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the standard bidding 
documents referred to in Section I, Part C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement (as well 
as accompanying standard model contracts, satisfactory to the Bank). 
Section 6.02. The date August 27, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
                                         Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  8
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Benjamín Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Alexandre Abrantes
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (other than as 
   1,400,000
see paragraph 5 of
covered by Category
this Part A
(3) below)
(2)
Consultant services 
   6,200,000
100%
(3)
Incremental operational
     800,000
see paragraph 5 of
expenditures
this Part A
(4)
Refunding of Project
   1,500,000
amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
(5)
Fee
     100,000
amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
        10,000,000
2.
For purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental operational expenditures" 
means expenditures (other than for salaries and consultant services) incurred in 
carrying out Parts A.3, B.3, D and E of the Project to cover recurrent costs such as 
reasonable travel and per diems, utilities and operation and maintenance, all of which 
would not have been incurred in the absence of the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part A, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Part A on account of payments made for expenditures 
incurred within the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after 
Page  9
January 1, 1999.  
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for items not covered by the terms of 
Section I, Part D.2 and Section II, Part D.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
5.
The percentage of expenditures to be financed by the Bank under Categories (1) 
and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Part A shall be:  (a) 100% in the case of 
items procured through the services of a tax-exempt procurement agent; or (b) 82% in 
the case of all other goods. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Sections in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
Page  10
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made  
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
Page  11
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to identify social and/or fiscal attributes of 
physical and legal persons in Argentina, through a sustainable information exchange 
system aimed at improving the efficiency, effectiveness and impact of social services 
and fiscal programs at all levels of government in Argentina.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of Social Services
1.
Use of SINTyS as follows to facilitate the interchange of information among 
federal, provincial and/or municipal government agencies in Argentina, as well as to 
improve the completeness, accuracy and reliability of such agencies’ data, all for 
purposes of improving the targeting and delivery of social services:  (a) 
cross-checking of data from ANSeS with provincial data to detect deceased and thus no 
longer eligible social security beneficiaries; (b) verifying RNP reporting of deaths; 
(c) analyzing efficiency data regarding performance of provincial public hospitals; 
(d) cross-checking of federal and provincial data to detect beneficiaries of more than 
one social service; (e) cross-checking of data to detect ineligible recipients of 
government awarded hardship case pensions; (f) cross-checking of SISFAM and employment 
program data at federal and provincial levels to detect eligible beneficiaries who are 
not receiving social program coverage; (g) cross-checking of AFIP data with provincial 
data to detect self-employed workers and their dependents who are not making health or 
pension plan contributions; (h) cross-checking of federal and provincial health care 
plan register data to detect persons benefiting from more than one medical coverage 
plan; (i) cross-checking of federal and provincial data (other than the data referred 
to in Part A.1 (f) of the Project) to detect potential beneficiaries not covered by 
social programs; and (j) analyzing public employment program eligibility 
inconsistencies. 
2.
Use of SINTyS to carry out ad hoc, small-scale public data verification and 
cross-checking exercises with respect to social sector programs (other than the 
exercises covered by Part A.1 of the Project). 
3.
Planning, preparation, analysis and monitoring of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the 
Project.
Part B:
Improvement of Fiscal Efficiency
1.
Use of SINTyS as follows to facilitate the interchange of information among 
federal, provincial and/or municipal government agencies in Argentina, as well as to 
improve the completeness, accuracy and reliability of such agencies’ data, all for 
purposes of preventing, detecting and discouraging tax evasion:  (a) cross-checking of 
federal and provincial data to detect real estate that is not being properly declared 
for tax purposes; (b) cross-checking of federal data regarding value added taxation 
with provincial data regarding gross income taxation to detect inconsistencies in 
taxpayer reporting; (c) cross-checking of federal and provincial data on tax and 
social security compliance by registered corporations; (d) cross-checking of federal 
and provincial data on employees and insurance coverage to verify compliance with 
worker compensation legislation; (e) cross-checking of federal and provincial data 
regarding the holding and transfer of livestock by registered agricultural and 
livestock producers; (f) cross-checking of federal and provincial data from airplane 
and vessel registries; and (g) cross-checking of automobile registry data. 
2.
Use of SINTyS to carry out ad hoc, small-scale public data verification and 
cross-checking exercises to prevent, detect and discourage tax evasion (other than the 
exercises covered by Part B.1 of the Project). 
Page  12
3.
Planning, preparation, analysis and monitoring of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the 
Project.
Part C:
Institutional Framework, Infrastructure and Common Services 
1.
Establishment and application of an institutional legal and operating management 
framework to support SINTyS. 
2.
Establishment and application of ad hoc temporary systems to facilitate the 
exchange of fiscal and social sector information among federal agencies and between 
federal and provincial and/or municipal agencies as part of SINTyS. 
3.
Design, test and validation of the technical, intranet-based infrastructure 
required for eventual full-scale operation of SINTyS. 
4.
Provision of legal support to SINTyS by drafting and entering into agreements 
among federal, provincial and/or municipal agencies for the exchange of data, 
proposing a legal framework for the adequate protection of accuracy, privacy and other 
rights regarding data handled through SINTyS, proposing rules, regulations and 
procedures for the development and operation of SINTyS and providing general legal 
advice to SEF with respect to SINTyS. 
5.
Planning, preparation, analysis and monitoring of Parts C.1 through C.4 of the 
Project.
Part D:
Management of SINTyS
Coordination of SINTyS operation, including provision of equipment, technical 
assistance and training to SEF and other involved agencies, as well as including the 
carrying out of studies and study tours, all in support of SINTyS (except as otherwise 
covered by Parts A, B, C and E of the Project).
Part E:
Project Administration 
1.
Carrying out of Project administration activities, through provision of, inter 
alia, procurement, accounting, auditing and reporting services for the Project. 
2.
Public dissemination of Project aims, results and procedures. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
       Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2004
500,000
through April 15, 2014 
Page  13
_________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, 
using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.
National or International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods (other than contracts for goods under 
Category (3) in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, estimated to 
Page  14
cost less than $1,500 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$50,000 equivalent per calendar year), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least Cost Selection 
Labor intensive services involving repetitive activities, such as file and data 
base verification and clean up, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
