Page  1
June 25, 1998
Mr. Roque Fernández
Ministro de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Social and Fiscal National Identification System 
Technical Assistance  Project  (Grant No. TF 025306)
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred seventeen thousand U.S. Dollars (U.S. $517,000) (the 
Grant) to the Argentine Republic (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
______________________________
/s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Director, Country Management Unit VII
AGREED:
Argentine Republic
By /s/ Mr. Roque Fernández
           Ministro de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Date: January 27, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
Page  2
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1. The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in preparing the proposed Social and 
Fiscal  National Identification System Technical Assistance Project (the Project).  The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
provision of technical assistance to the Recipient to prepare recommendations 
and legislation drafts regarding confidentiality of information maintained in Recipient data 
bases and regarding the exchange of information among Recipient agencies using or 
contributing to such data bases;
(b)
provision of technical assistance to the Recipient for the building of a central 
data base for the Recipient;
(c)
provision of technical assistance to the Recipient for the strengthening of data 
bases that would feed into the central data base referred to above, as well as for the 
strengthening of the inter-connectivity between such data bases and the central data base;
(d)
provision of technical assistance to the Recipient to prepare recommendations on 
how to facilitate and expand a person’s or entity’s access to information about such person or 
entity in said central data base; and
(e)
provision of technical assistance to the Recipient to facilitate inter-agency 
coordination in the design and implementation of said central data base, as well as to assist in 
the design and initial implementation of the Project.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1. The Recipient shall, through its 
Secretaría de Equidad Fiscal
 (SEF; Secretariat of Fiscal 
Equity):  (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall 
reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank’s representatives on 
the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to 
enable the Bank to visit the territory of the Argentine Republic for purposes related to the 
Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books 
in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Page  3
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.
4.2. The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
% of
Allocated (in
Expenditures to
Item
U.S. Dollars)
be Financed
Consultants’
517,000
100%
services (including
consultants’ travel
and 
per diem
 expenses)
consisting of the carrying
out of the Activities
4.3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above, no withdrawals shall be made: 
(a) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement 
by the Bank, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000, may 
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 
1998; (b) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; 
(c) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for services supplied from such territories; (d) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities if such payment, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; or (e) after March 1, 1999 or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written 
notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is received by 
the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant 
remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled.
4.4. When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified 
by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be:  (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by 
SEF’s 
Secretario de Equidad Fiscal
 (Secretary of Fiscal Equity) or such other person as he or 
she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of 
the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of 
the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank 
that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5. Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant. The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with 
the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be 
required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it 
Page  4
shall be necessary, for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one 
currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1. (a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments or agencies of the Recipient 
responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:  (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to 
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient 
to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing:  (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations 
herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has 
made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account:  (a) at any time after the right 
of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to 
take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry 
out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 
Page  5
1997 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B
:
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
