                   Document of
                 The World Bank




                                              Report No: 36160-AR

       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
          (SCL-44590 PPFB-P3370 TF-25306)

                      ON AN

        ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN (APL I)

         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                     TO THE

              ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                      FOR A

SOCIAL AND FISCAL NATIONAL IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
                    PROGRAM




                   June 30, 2006

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective )

                              Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                              ARS .3274662 = US$ 1

                                      US$ 1 = .3274662



                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1     December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFIP       Federal Public Revenue Administration
ANSES      National Social Security Administration
APN        Public Service Administration
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
APN        Public Service Administration
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CUIL       Unique Labor Identification Number
CUIT       Unique Tax Identification Number
DNI        National Identification Number
EDAPS      Data Standards for the APN
GOA        Government of Argentina
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
ISP        Internet Service Provider
INTERNET   Inter-networking protocol for transmission of data through packets;
MdJ        Ministry of Justice
MdT        Ministry of Labor
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
RNP        National Registry of People
SDS        Secretariat of Social Development
SFE        Secretariat of Fiscal Equity in the Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
SIEMPRO    Social Program Management System in the Secretariat of Social Development
SINTyS     Social and Fiscal National Identification System
SISFAM     Socioeconomic Demographics Family Registry System
VPN        Virtual Private Network - a telecommunications network with a closed users group

                             Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                           Country Director       Axel van Trotsenburg
                            Sector Manager        Ronald E. Myers
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Miguel Mercado Diaz

                                        ARGENTINA
                                AR SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            25
6. Sustainability                                                                26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 27
8. Lessons Learned                                                               30
9. Partner Comments                                                              30
10. Additional Information                                                       34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43

Project ID: P055461                                                  Project Name: AR SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS
Team Leader: Miguel Mercado-Diaz                                     TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-44590; PPFB-P3370;
                                                                                                     TF-25306
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (57%); Other social services (43%)
                  Theme: Social safety nets (P); Tax policy and administration (P); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/15/1998                                     Effective: 07/01/1999                07/29/1999
     Appraisal: 03/09/1998                                         MTR: 02/11/2000                  11/06/2000
      Approval: 04/20/1999                                      Closing: 09/30/2001                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA/SECRETARIAT OF FISCAL EQUITY (OFFICE
                                           OF CABINET OF MINISTERS)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                Guillermo Perry
Team Leader at ICR:             Miguel Mercado-Diaz                            Luis Mejia
ICR Primary Author:             Wolfgang Koehling


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The ICR analyzed and assessed the performance of the first phase of the Social and Fiscal National
Identification System (SINTyS) Adjustable Program Loan, for which the Bank approved a US$10 million
loan to the Argentine Republic in March 1999.

Following 1989, Argentina successfully implemented a series of major structural reforms that brought
hyperinflation, economic stagnation and high public sector deficits under control. These reforms focused on
the macro aspects of the economy, with special emphases on the privatization of public enterprises,
monetary and fiscal systems, and trade and capital market policies. Subsequently, in order to consolidate
the renewed macro-economic stability and to address persistently high unemployment and poverty rates and
skewed income distribution, the government moved in the mid 1990's to a second generation of public
sector reforms. It placed priorities on restoring effectiveness and efficiency in social services and installing
greater equity in them.

The government committed itself to improving the allocation of funds in social programs to increase their
efficiency and equity alongside of improving and expanding their outreach to needy citizens. It established a
Social Cabinet in the Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers (Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros) to
improve coordination among the various social agencies, and also it created a system to change the
management and focus of the social programs (SIEMPRO - the Social Program Management System) in
the Social Development Secretariat.

At the same time, however, the government found that its social sector expenditures then consumed seventy
eight percent of all national and provincial public spending. Moreover, the Federal budget financed sixty
percent of the sizeable provincial social expenditures. Accordingly, the administration was very concerned
about the efficiency of the social programs. There was widespread concern and some evidence of fraud and
corruption in these programs, as well as duplication of benefits, particularly in the extensive system of
social programs providing free services. Furthermore, the probable attendant wastage of public funds was
compounded by many associated opportunities for tax evasion, which the Bank estimated to be forty five
percent of potential VAT collections.

The government determined that an underlying factor of these problems was the decision makers' lack of
reliable information on the beneficiaries of and contributors to the programs. It found that federal and
provincial agencies were unable, and some even unwilling, to communicate information among themselves
for a number of reasons, including the following:

l Federal agencies were decidedly autonomous and considered their decision- making and the ownership
    rights to their data to be strictly proprietary;
l Privacy concerns were paramount in Argentina;
l Provincial agencies often were independent of their national counterparts and averse to "upward
    accountability";
l National and provincial data sets were incomplete or of poor quality;
l No constitutional framework existed for inter-provincial cooperation in data sharing; and
l There was no coordination with the independent social programs, some of which were explicitly
    chartered to help individuals not covered by Argentina's overall safety net.

As a result, there was no single consistent process to positively identify individuals, legal entities, their



                                                      - 2 -

assets or their relationships to each other. This absence impeded accurate assessments of the incidence and
impact of the social programs ­ and even controls over their payments and other services. Thus, individuals
could file for bankruptcy and collect benefits in one province while holding significant assets in another
province. Similarly, some pension and other benefit programs continued payments to long deceased
individuals.

In mid-1998, therefore, the government initiated the Social and Fiscal National Identification System
(SINTyS) in order to provide its decision makers better, more reliable information about the social program
beneficiaries and taxpayers. The idea was to assemble and permit agencies access to data for more effective
determinations of potential contributors to and beneficiaries of entitlements, payments and contributions.
The government subsequently requested Bank assistance to help develop SINTyS, for which the subject
loan was provided. Its objective was to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and impact of social services
and tax administrations through an institutionalized information exchange. It was designed as a
three-phased APL. The loan provided to support the first phase aimed at obtaining demonstrable results
with a limited number of participating institutions and programs through a progressive and
consensus-building approach, and to initiate the related cultural changes. This was focused on the data
ownership aspects of the program while also limiting entry costs into the system. The goal of the projected
second phase was to expand the coverage of SINTyS to all provinces and increase its efficiency, while the
goal of the projected third phase was SINTyS' consolidation and institutionalization.

The objective of Phase I entailed identifying the social and/or fiscal attributes of physical and legal persons
in Argentina through sustainable information exchange in order to improve social services and fiscal
programs at all levels of government. It was expected to provide enabling conditions and tools for
participating agencies to realize savings and provide additional benefits to newly identified eligible
households through exchange mechanisms capable of data reconciliation. The vision was that, at the end of
the program, barriers to information exchange among participating agencies would have disappeared as
data gathered separately became legally available, when and where needed. The longer-term vision was a
shared information exchange network, enabling the government to offer "one-stop" delivery of multiple
value added services.

During the first phase, the scheme called for SINTyS to develop common database standards and
standardized variables. This was intended to make them compatible and to develop a technical solution for
data sharing, without infringing on the integrity of the participating agencies' databases or beneficiaries'
privacy.

The strategy was to originally concentrate on the National Pension Administration (ANSES), which had the
largest database and was performing limited data reconciliation with the National Tax Administration
(AFIP), but which did not have a system to build on, along with Mendoza, one of the biggest provinces
with relatively high quality data. The plan was to obtain agreements with both entities to provide for
information sharing, and to identify the steps needed to reconcile their databases. The first action was to
normalize these databases and adjust them to permit regular data reconciliation. In parallel, SINTyS was to
develop a system for more automated comparisons of datasets with a greater number of entities.

The project plan recognized that SINTyS' needed to build a reasonable consensus among Argentina's
agencies in order to achieve a significant critical mass for the desired demonstration effect, and a
foundation for the program's sustainability. To achieve this mass, once the initial data reconciliation was in
place and potential monetary impact demonstrated, the system was to be extended to other institutions,
including the AFIP, National Registry of People (RENAPeR) and the Secretariat of Social Development
(SDS). Also, four more provinces were initially expected to join Mendoza in the program.


                                                     - 3 -

For the first phase, the Project Appraisal Document specified the following performance indicators to be
used for monitoring its progress, as well as to demonstrate the potential benefits, which were expected to
convince others to participate in the program.

Box 1 Indicators (Phase I)


 Overall:
           The number of agencies using consistent common processes to identify
           entities and assets;
           Percentage of the population uniquely identified and with family
           relationship data
 For Social Services:
           Effectiveness: number of identified, entitled beneficiary households
           previously not receiving services
           Efficiency: Number of beneficiary households incorrectly receiving
           benefits;
           Savings: amount of incorrect benefits not awarded
 For Fiscal Programs:
           Effectiveness: increase in the number of registered taxpayers
           Efficiency: increase in collections



In addition, the government and the Bank agreed on the following institutional triggers to be in place prior
to the initiation of Phase II:

Box 2 Triggers for Phase II


      · Completion of the analysis of local Internet Service Providers
      · Completion of the technology model
      · Definition of data coding standards
      · Definition of access methodology
      · Definition of security standards, including encryption
      · Definition of data quality standards and validation methods
      · Design of institutional framework
      · Design of legal framework, particularly for information privacy and
           confidentiality
      · Design of infrastructure architecture
      · Agreements with additional entities to participate in SINTyS




                                                  - 4 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Project Objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project was structured around five components including two substantive components, one enabling
component and two management components. The substantive components consisted of a large number of
relatively independent activities. Because of the somewhat exploratory nature of the first phase, some of its
activities were not detailed very precisely, especially in the area of system development and institutional
strengthening. This was considered necessary for the effort to develop new technological approaches, and in
order to advance incrementally on the institutional side.

Component A: Improvement of Social Services (US$ 4.1 million)

This component aimed to improve the targeting and delivery of social services through better identification
of individuals, entities and their relationships. This was to be accomplished by facilitating the interchange
of information among participating agencies and improving the completeness, accuracy and reliability of
agency data through cross-validation. This component called for the development of uniform database
structures, review and enhancement of different agencies' information structures, development of
standardized social sector variables, definitions of tombstone data (unchangeable data over the life of an
entity) of individuals and firms and their characteristics, definitions of uniform beneficiary criteria,
definitions of contributors' characteristics, and an identification of the types of databases to be used for
information reconciliation.

Component B: Improved Fiscal Efficiency (US$ 3.4 million)

This component aimed at reducing the number of unregistered potential taxpayers, tax evasion, and tax
underreporting, while increasing tax compliance through an increased perception of the risk of discovery.
It addressed the specific requirements for tax databases to communicate among themselves as well as with
social sector and assets databases. Here too, the main tasks included assisting participating agencies in
upgrading their databases to a standard that conformed to SINTyS' requirements. In this connection,
confidentiality concerns were more serious in the tax area than in the social sector, requiring greater
attention to database security.

As in the previous component, the objective was to be accomplished by facilitating the interchange of
information among the agencies and improving the completeness, accuracy and quality of their data
through cross-validation. This was to enable the agencies to improve their controls over different fiscal and
social security obligations. The tax component relied in principle on the same identifiers as the social
component.

Component C: Institutional Framework, Infrastructure and Common Services (US$ 2.1 million)

Because of the inadequate institutional and legal framework for the program at the beginning
(e.g., no data privacy laws or mechanisms for data sharing), SINTyS needed to establish a
comprehensive set of rules for a trustworthy environment. Therefore, this component was designed to put in
place laws and norms for the institutional backbone of SINTyS. It called for creating a legal and
technology infrastructure within a comprehensive institutional framework. This, together with the technical



                                                      - 5 -

support from the social and fiscal components, was also aimed at building consensus and trust among the
participating agencies.

Its provisions included developing agreements between SINTyS and the participating agencies, user
guidelines, privacy rules, access mechanisms, types of data sharing, remedies for contract breaches, and
technical criteria for the databases. The agreements were to need modification over time as the system
grew, and access and data reconciliation methodology changed. There were also plans for advancing the
program's legal and institutional underpinning through such measures as privacy legislation, data
standards, data security protocols and intellectual property rights laws. In addition, during project
implementation, this component was to finance security activities in SINTyS and the participating agencies
for ensuring database integrity, and monitoring the quality of data reconciliation, specifically for estimating
the potential monetary impact of the program.

Component D: Management of the System (US$ 0.2 million)

This component was to finance system development, management of data reconciliation and system
operations. The system management entity was in charge of the technical strategy and project operation.

Component E: Project Administration (US$ 0.6 million)

This component was to provide the administrative, accounting and other services for the execution of the
Project.

3.4 Revised Components:

The Components were not revised. However, during the progress of the project, additional activities were
added to the substantive components. In particular, in 2004 SINTyS expanded its mission to provide
technical assistance and capacity building and installation of equipment in the provinces for their
development of their databases.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

No QAG review was carried out.

The Quality at entry is assessed as highly satisfactory.

The project proposal was consistent with the goals of the then current CAS, which was discussed with the
Board on November 10, 1998. The CAS had underscored the need for reducing Argentina's significant
levels of poverty and highly skewed distribution of income, which were then exacerbated by growing
unemployment. It cited the imperatives of restoring quality social services and instilling greater equity in
them. By supporting the development of better information on social and fiscal programs, the proposed
project was fully supportive of these goals.

In preparing the Project, the government and the Bank confronted difficult conditions. These included the
following:

a. The goal required winning the support of a new information-sharing mechanism from many institutions
    in numerous jurisdictions ­ which were not accountable to or supporting each other ­ whose combined
    efforts would be necessary to achieve lasting benefits.



                                                    - 6 -

b. The main targeted participants would have to include important and very autonomous national and
    provincial agencies. Each owned its own information and felt strongly responsible for its life-cycle
    management and controlling access to it. They and the partial information registries then existing
    shared data imperfectly. Furthermore, following Argentina's then relatively recent return to
    constitutional government, these agencies felt it imperative to ensure strong controls on information
    privacy and security. Protecting the integrity of their data therefore ranked high in their concerns.
c. The Bank had ongoing program relationships with several of the agencies participating in the project.
    Some of these activities had not been very successful, particularly regarding these organizations'
    implementation capabilities and the efforts to change some of the same practices which were at issue in
    SINTyS' creation. Therefore, the possibilities of improving their information management were
    uncertain.
d. For SINTyS to achieve its goals, Argentina would need a uniform standard-based approach for
    gathering and comparing information. This in turn would have to entail its agencies being motivated to
    voluntarily participate in the system and comply with its provisions.
e. Past Bank-supported public sector reform activities in Argentina had frequently been large,
    comprehensive schemes, sometimes involving numerous organizations, agencies, and provinces.
    Experience had shown the complexity of implementing them, especially with the country's federal
    structure.

The government and the Bank responded to these and related problems in a very proactive manner, partly
by installing several important principles at the outset. These were, among others, that: (a) participating
agencies would continue to regulate access to their information; (b) instead of a single central database
system, the approach would rest on interconnecting existing databases; c) SINTyS would focus on
providing a technical, legal and institutional framework and coordinating national institutions for ensuring
overall data consistency by developing a system for data exchange and analysis; (d) it would also
concentrate on bringing about institutional and cultural changes through encouragement and operational
support; and (e) results would have to be accomplished early on to mobilize sufficient buy-in for creating
the critical mass needed to sustain the program.

Alongside of these, the project preparation work was technically valuable in sponsoring a "systems
management" rather than mainframe approach. It proposed extensive use of Internet facilities as a more
evolutionary, less costly and proven scalable medium for providing access to shared information. Its
recommendation of this technological platform was very appropriate as well for providing a reliable tool
for validating information and rectifying errors that was very suitable for trying to reduce the reported
widespread instances of fraud and inefficiencies. The platform was also readily compatible with Argentina's
technology/telecommunications environment, which was then relatively advanced -- but not yet well
applied in government operations.

In these and other respects, the project preparation was conceptually novel and creative, which were
important factors for the changes which the government sought. The Loan components to be financed were
well designed and presented an effective approach to obtaining the desired results. They were also probably
unique in the intention to combine social data with tax data as a way to increase tax compliance. The
provisions for flexibility provided to be quite useful, for example, when SINTyS learned that information
on legal entities and land properties was insufficient to permit exchanges.

In addition, the preparation teams' work was quite comprehensive. For example, they examined correlations
among social sector expenditures, information sharing, fiscal revenues, and poverty and unemployment
levels. They sought to identify which of these factors should be aligned through linking databases in order
to best determine how to highlight fraudulent beneficiaries and tax avoidance.


                                                     - 7 -

Some of the other commendable elements of the project's design usefully drew on previous experience with
proposed public sector management reforms in Argentina. These dealt with such problems as inadequate
legal frameworks, differences among competing factions, and weak and outdated technical capabilities in
some bureaucracies, and resistance to change. The project accordingly had a sensible strategy of gradual
change, and rejected the possibility of seeking one new central database in favor of a more politically
acceptable approach. It did not necessitate long-term investments and it provided flexibility for risk
management.

In addition to these, the project preparation team identified a number of measures to mitigate the
foreseeable and other plausible risks. These included plans for: (a) the support of a policy committee to
help obtain the critical participation mass and sustain managerial continuity, as well as provide political
coordination; (b) timely information dissemination to quell public fears of privacy and confidentiality
incursions; and    (c) the introduction of a quality assurance function to deter or eliminate service
deficiencies.

Furthermore, the separation of both "administrative" components in the Loan's structure proved to be very
forward-looking when the project administration and SINTyS' management needed to be separated. By
treating them as two different entities, the Project gained protection from political obstructionism and won
trust from the participating agencies.

On the basis of all these, the Project's Quality at Entry is rated highly satisfactory. Its design might be
considered appropriate for inclusion in the Bank's judgments on and selections of "best practices" in public
sector reform. It ranked well with respect to consistency of objectives with the CAS, the quality of its
design, the demonstrated capacity of the implementing agency, and the reasonableness of the scheme's
assumptions. Moreover, the PAD documented these and defined appropriate performance indicators
succinctly and well.

To be sure, while the scheduled time for the implementation of Phase I was two years, its actual
implementation period was five years. However, this was not a deficiency of project design. The longer
period was mostly attributable to the impact of the financial crisis in 2001/2002 and other factors discussed
below. Moreover, the basic scheme called for a trial and demonstration period of a technologically
moderately challenging activity, which (if successful) would be followed by additional work, cumulatively
totaling eight years. There was thus no unexpected or unfortunate slippage since some of the originally
planned Phase II activities were effectively launched during this initial period. On the other hand, the
preparation team appeared to have underestimated the time needed for institutional changes.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The outcome of the project is assessed as Highly Satisfactory, as measured against the objectives of APL
Phase I, which were limited to demonstration purposes. The project is now well into the implementation of
Phase II.

The first phase of the APL was scheduled to be completed in FY 2002 (September 2001). However the
project was extended until the end of calendar year 2005, as were its benchmarks. Review of the project's
accomplishments indicates that most of the benchmarks set for the first phase were actually met during the
initial implementation time frame. This report reflects these achievements.



                                                     - 8 -

Phase I of the SINTyS program was aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of social sector
programs and fiscal administrations, despite the fact that SINTyS only provides the tools for these
improvements and the actual steps ­ corrections of databases and terminations or initiations of benefits ­
had to be implemented by the participating agencies. But by demonstrating a large potential monetary
impact, SINTyS created the incentives for the agencies to take the steps required to realize that monetary
impact voluntarily. Monetary impact includes (1) savings due to termination of benefits to ineligible
beneficiaries of social programs, including deceased individuals and individuals excluded due to income or
wealth; (2) additional tax revenues due to identification of new tax payers or detection of tax
underreporting; and (3) additional payments to newly identified eligible beneficiaries. The reason to lump
these three together is that in general a reduction of payments to non-eligible beneficiaries (by definition not
needy) and payments to new beneficiaries (by definition needy) both increase the overall social welfare.
Additionally, tax collection increases the equity of the tax system and thus also increases the social welfare
of government activities, as taxation is principally build on the ability to pay, or progressive, and taxing
higher income with a higher tax rate.

The Project's goal was to establish a system for data matching, provide a framework to link social and
fiscal data bases, to demonstrate the potential impact of SINTyS' use, and develop an institutional
framework capable of accommodating more provinces and agencies in the network. Its accomplishments,
which substantially exceeded expectations in most areas, included the following:

l Development of a hub and spoke technological model for data reconciliation across several databases
    simultaneously
l Exceeded the originally targeted critical mass of participating agencies
l Measured the potential and actual impact of the data sharing
l Initiated valuable institutional changes
l Verified social and fiscal monetary impact directly attributable to the Project
l Increased the agencies' efficiency and effectiveness beyond the initially forecast levels


Table 1 shows that the majority of the benchmarks of the first phase were met during the first few years of
the operation. The indicators for 2001 are cumulative potential monetary impact, additional revenues, and
identified beneficiaries, from the beginning of the project estimated by SINTyS through the average
payments per individual in the respective program multiplied by the errors detected:

Table 1 Benchmarks

                    Benchmark                               Anticipated Project       By December 2001
                                                           Target at Appraisal
Total Potential Monetary Impact as of May
2001 in US$ (US$1 = AR$1)
No. of newly identified beneficiaries:                   150,000                  224,000
No. of households not eligible                           100,000                  129,000
No. of new taxpayers                                     3,000                    600
No. of Participating Provinces                           1 + 4 (maximum)          5
No. of Participating Agencies                            20                       25
Total additional revenues                                $25 million              $74.5 million
Total monetary impact in the social services             $16 million              $59.5million
Total potential monetary impact                          $41 million              $134.5 million


                                                       - 9 -

The Project required extensions of the loan's closing date after the national fiscal crisis in the beginning of
2001. Because of its severity and the attendant difficulties in Argentina's economy, questions arose about
continued financing for the program. But following the good initial outcome, it was agreed to permit the
extension of the Project beyond FY 2002 and to expand the goals of Phase I with the help of the remaining
loan proceeds. This was also facilitated by the fact that the subsequent Argentine peso devaluation (January
6, 2002) effectively freed up additional resources.

As a result of these factors, this report includes broader achievements than those which had been solely
planned for Phase I. These were also substantial as shown in Table 2; the indicators represent the
estimated actual cumulative monetary impact from the beginning of the project as verified by the
participating agencies. Prior to 2004 the agencies did not verify the monetary impact. However for the
period 1999 to 2003, SINTyS calculated the estimated actual impact by multiplying the potential impact of
that period, by the average verification rate (as seen in Table 3) of the respective provinces. The monetary
amounts are US$ at the present exchange rate:

Table 2 Estimated Actual Monetary impact

                   Benchmark                        Anticipated Project Target             By 2006
                                                           at Appraisal
Total Actual Monetary Impact as of
January 1, 2006 in US$ (US$1 = AR$3)
  No. of newly identified beneficiaries:            150,000                    759,766*
No. of households not eligible                      100,000                    302,539
No. of new taxpayers                                3,000                      226,146**
No. of Participating Provinces                      1+4                        23
No. of Participating Agencies                       20                         155
Total monetary impact in the social services        $16 million                $91 million
Total additional revenues                           $25 million                $39.5 million***
  Total Monetary impact                              $41 million (potential)   $130.5 million (actual)****
* Actual number of data discrepancies identified by SINTyS
** Total verified by the agencies over project period
*** Actual additional revenue collected
**** Actual monetary impact over project period

The figures above reflect SINTyS' significant development in 2003 of a new monitoring tool to measure the
full impact of its system. Prior to December 2003, SINTyS had estimated the potential monetary impact
from data reconciliation by identifying detected errors. But since 2004, it has been possible to verify the
actual monetary impact realized compared to potential ones, thanks to SINTyS' advancement. Following
some changes, the actual monetary impact is now identified and monitored through the agencies' new
reporting systems. Through this the agencies report back on all individual cases the monetary impact of the
data reconciliation. This step was highly beneficial for SINTyS to demonstrate its value to participants in
rectifying information inaccuracies.

In addition SINTyS calculated the ratio of realized actual monetary impact to total potential monetary
impact. This allows establishing the additional marginal impact SINTyS can have if all monetary impact
were realized.



                                                       - 10 -

Thereby too, SINTyS is now able to determine the provinces' data verification rates. Certain provinces, as
well as national agencies, have consistently reconciled seventy percent (or more than the national average)
of the data inconsistencies. On the other hand, after initial success, the data verification rates dropped. The
reasons for their divergences are unclear. Some of the provinces have only recently joined in the program
and the actions needed to convert potential monetary impact into actual ones are complex and
time-consuming. Others such as the Province of La Pampa are reported to have encountered administrative
and capacity constraint.

To date all provinces but one have signed agreements with SINTyS and started to implement them
gradually in all their agencies. However due to the gradual implementation and disparity in the capacity to
integrate SINTyS in the agencies' procedures, regional differences exist, although significant additional
efficiency and effectiveness gains can be expected. Table 3 displays the differences among the provinces in
being able to rectify inconsistencies. This table gives an overview over the accomplishments by province,
both with respect to the monetary value ­ as the percentage of provincial monetary impact to the total
impact.

Column one of each year (percentage of monetary impact) indicates the relative monetary impact of the
relevant province in relation to the total monetary impact generated by SINTyS in Argentina. This measure
is a proxy for how extensively SINTyS is implemented in a province. The second column indicates the
accomplishment of the agencies to eradicate reported errors. This measure is a proxy for the quality of
implementation in a province and the agencies' capacity to act on reported errors and translate them into
monetary impact. Initially, the majority of participating provinces were able to rectify more than two-thirds
of them. In 2004, the bulk of actual monetary impact was realized at the national level (thirty seven
percent) and the Province of Buenos Aires (twenty three percent) followed by Cordoba (twenty percent).
This reflects SINTyS' strategy to focus on a small set of agencies in selected provinces with the highest
potential. The only other province with meaningful actual monetary impact was the Province of Mendoza,
which was the first to enlist in the program. In 2005 the situation changed substantially and SINTyS
expanded more rapidly. Provinces like Rioja and Santa Cruz managed to fully reconcile their data. Even
though their actual monetary impact was relatively small, and only a few agencies affected, they were
significant accomplishments for these entities. Simultaneously, as well, within a half a year after joining
SINTyS, the Rio Negro province was able to rectify nearly half of its of the inconsistencies. The drop in
verification rates in some Provinces can be attributed to the time lag to build the capacity within the
agencies to reconcile the data. Overall the high verification rates indicate the high quality of data SINTyS is
providing.

Table 3 Regional Differences

                          2004               2004                                  2005              2005
     Province          Percentage         Verification        Province         Percentage        Verification
                        of Total           Rate**                                 of Total          Rate**
                       Monetary                                                 Monetary
                       impact in                                                 impact in
                       Argentina*                                              Argentina*
                         Total          Total Detected                             Total        Total Detected
                    US$20,633,983       Errors: 341,776                       US$26,508,521 Errors: 946,670
La Rioja                 0,1%                73%          La Rioja                 0,2%             100%
Misiones                 0,1%                73%          Santa Cruz               0,4%             100%



                                                     - 11 -

Jujuy                        0,5%                  73%            Jujuy                     11,8%                 99%
Salta                        0,1%                  73%            Bs. As.                   30,6%                 72%
St. del Estero               0,3%                  73%            Mendoza                   12,8%                 71%
 Tucumán                      0,4%                 73%             National                 20,5%                 65%
 Mendoza                      8,7%                 73%              AVERAGE                   NA                  61%
 Santa Fe                     0,6%                 73%             Córdoba                   5,1%                 57%
La Pampa                     0,2%                  71%            Tucumán                    0,2%                 54%
Córdoba                     20,3%                  69%            Río Negro                  0,2%                 46%
Bs. As.                     22,7%                  67%            Salta                      0,9%                 38%
 National                   37,0%                  65%             Entre Ríos                0,2%                 37%
 AVERAGE                      NA                   63%              Santa Fe                 6,9%                 5%
 Santa Cruz                   2,3%                 24%             Catamarca                 0,8%                 0%
Entre Ríos                   4,2%                  23%            Chaco                      0,5%                 0%
Chaco                        0,0%                   0%            Chubut                     0,2%                 0%
Chubut                       0,0%                   0%            Corrientes                 0,3%                 0%
Formosa                      1,3%                   0%            Formosa                    1,4%                 0%
GCBA                         1,1%                   0%            GCBA                       1,5%                 0%
Catamarca                     NA                                  La Pampa                   0,1%                 0%
Corrientes                    NA                                  Misiones                   0,3%                 0%
Río Negro                     NA                                  San Juan                   2,9%                 0%
San Juan                      NA                                  San Luis                   2,2%                 0%
 San Luis                     NA                                    St. del Estero           0,2%                 0%
* Percentage of Monetary Impact: Percentage of the possible savings, new benefits, and additional revenues actually
terminated, paid or collected.
**Verification Rate shows the percentage of data sets corrected following data matching with SINTyS.


The details of Project accomplishments of institutional and technical triggers and developments are
discussed below.

l Analysis of the use of the local Internet Service Providers (ISP)


The initial review of the local ISP was completed in May 2003, which met the trigger for Phase II, except
in a few regional cases where ISP coverage and quality were still insufficient for full expansion of the
program.     Following the review, SINTyS worked closely with the provinces and organizations in
conjunction with the Public Investment Secretariat to improve the quality of service, which has been judged
to be at levels comparable to the standards in Europe. This achievement exceeded the requirements of the
trigger. As a result, SINTyS began to develop programs using web-based technologies.

l Technology model


The Project's goal was to produce a functional data reconciliation model to allow participating agencies to
submit their data, together with a data verification request for an accurate audit of the system. SINTyS was
then able to compare the data with that available from the participating agencies, and to provide an analysis
based on a probability scale to identify duplications. In October 2003, the technological architecture of
SINTyS was completed, both on the methodological side as well as with respect to the capability to
up-scale the program. However, the project did not then have an ICT strategy for internal development and
external linkages and integration with national, subnational and agency-level ICT strategies and platforms.



                                                            - 12 -

Moreover, SINTyS did not have a disaster and recovery plan with a redundant site. However, the
redundant plans are now completed and the site would be fully operational after needed equipment is
purchased.

During phase I, security remained in SINTyS´care because of the need for development of planning and
assembly of expertise. Then, during the last two years of implementation, SINTyS developed an ICT
strategy for the Project that included security, auditing and data privacy which have permitted such
advances as bringing about a prototype for an on-line SINTyS with search capabilities within participants'
databases. The size and number of the linked databases were limited only by restrictions on equipment
purchasing for expansion. The technology model thus exceeded the trigger.

l Access methodology


The access methodology was defined and has been improved in the area of database integrity and
monitoring since 2004. Furthermore, the scope of this work has been broadened. With the development of
the web- based system, access methodology has been further improved and refined to accommodate
decentralized access to SINTyS. This allows participating agencies to initiate requests automatically from
remote locations instead of sending the data to SINTyS´ headquaters. Since 2002, a new dynamic remote
service facility allows for immediate turnaround of any data required.

An access protocol is in effect after being tested for the web-based system. It allows centralized data
management with remote access to provide security during data up- and downloads, server integrity, system
redundancies, integrated hard and software design, user certification, and SINTyS' review of the
participating agencies' standards.

l Security standards, including encryption


After October 2003, the project focused on network security, especially data security, privacy,
advancement of the technological model and preparation of the architecture for further advances. The issue
of physical security was addressed by creating several certification barriers for people accessing the
SINTyS environment, such as password, fingerprinting and "smart cards" for the doors. Presently, there
are plans to transfer the production environment to a more secure location. In addition, as a result of a
security review of all participating agencies, SINTyS' provincial units follow the same security standards,
both virtual and physical, as the headquarters.

At the end of Phase I, the Korean Computerization Agency reviewed SINTyS extensively and confirmed
that the legal framework for the security (including passive) standards was more than adequate, subject to
some areas of improvement in the area of passive security. Passive security has since been improved
further and its unit now has multiple physical barriers. It presently plans to transfer to an even more secure
location in a separate building exclusively for SINTyS. In addition, SINTyS also carried out an upgrading
of the provincial units housing the web-based accesses. The security component is proposed to be moved
outside SINTyS Phase II for objectivity purposes.

l Data quality standards and validation methods


In December 2004, SINTyS incorporated the development and implementation of functional analyses of
databases and the methodology for quality controls of their information. The basis for the data standards is
the new Estándares de Datos para la APN (EDAPS), which defines the quality of the data. It provides the
foundation for one of the biggest social and fiscal databases in the country, the Public Service


                                                    - 13 -

Administration (APN). AFIP, ANSES and RENAPeR have already applied this standard. It has been
implemented gradually in all other participating agencies, and so is very likely to be sustained. It was found
to be more efficient to review, validate and approve an existing standard satisfactory to the Project's
requirements rather than to develop individual standards and impose significant costs on APN.

l Institutional framework particularly regarding privacy of information and confidentiality


The government passed the regulations and laws needed to support the activities of SINTyS,
complementing other national legal provisions governing security and data privacy. The agreements which
SINTyS entered into with the provincial and national agencies also provided backing. These met the
requirements for continuing information exchange within the framework and the confidentiality agreements
at provincial levels. At the national level, all participating agencies are represented in the policy
coordination committee of SINTyS.

l Design of infrastructure architecture


The architectural design of the SINTyS infrastructure has been evolving throughout the Project. The
continuous change of the architecture was part of the original project design, intended to provide flexibility
and to show early results on a small scale. With the expansion of the Project, the architecture was modified.
At present, the web-based access has developed to a level which can be implemented in all agencies. With
its development, new features were integrated and user access can be controlled centrally while providing
the same template for all users. It assigns access rights by user log-ins. This architecture is far more
advanced than originally anticipated. In the future, a fully operable web-based platform available to all
agencies should be the main goal.

l Agreements of further entities to participate in SINTyS


The number of agreements reached exceeds the benchmark for the commencement of Phase II. To date, a
total of twenty-two Provinces, the City of Buenos Aires, seven municipalities and seventeen national
agencies are using SINTyS to improve the quality of their data. The project now covers 675 databases.


4.2 Outputs by components:

The impacts of the components' implementation and their monitoring improved over time. The monetary
impact is measured by the one-time periodic (monthly, quarterly etc.) benefits paid through social services
or the total amount of taxes owed due to underreporting or tax evasion. The amounts are reported by the
year the inconsistency of the data was identified by SINTyS, not by the collection / payment date. New
social benefits or the termination of ineligible benefits are effective with a minimal time lag due to more
transparent criteria, whereas tax collection has to undergo a new assessment of the tax payer, which creates
a time lag between identification and collection.

The numbers reported do not included the impact of SINTyS on all social and fiscal programs that use
SINTyS, as some programs do not report back their achievements.

Component A: Improvement of Social Services

The Project's performance in this component is rated Satisfactory.

The objective of this component and its outcomes were defined as: "This component aims to improve the



                                                     - 14 -

targeting and delivery of social services in Argentina by a better identification of individuals, entities
and relationships. This would be accomplished by facilitating the interchange of information among
participating agencies and improving the completeness, accuracy and reliability of agency data through
cross-validation. As quantity and quality of information available increase, better-targeted social
programs can be designed and the delivery of benefits can be controlled effectively."

Component A developed a system that allowed national and provincial social service agencies to improve
their information flows and information management through a verification of their own data against the
universe of all databases of participating agencies. Through the correction of data, which differs between
data sets, the agencies are able to adjust the benefits to the individuals or households; increase, decrease or
eliminate payments; and incorporate new beneficiaries. SINTyS allows agencies to verify data, and report
back actual monetary impact in their programs due to changes in information.

Outcome of Component A:

Within the social component, the objective was to demonstrate the potential effects of SINTyS on the
management of social programs. The Component is measured in three areas:

l Effectiveness: Number of newly identified households eligible for social services and transfers.
l Efficiency: Number of household ineligible for social services or transfers (deceased, multiple benefits,
    undisclosed financial sources)
l Amounts saved or additional benefits allocated


The impact of this component was substantial. Both the absolute numbers of beneficiaries identified and the
monetary impact of the efficiency gains (outreach to new beneficiaries) and effectiveness (identification of
ineligible beneficiaries) in the social sector are multiples of the defined benchmarks and appear to be
sustainable. In the future, these gains might be expanded if SINTyS published the results of its data
matching to address the significant variations in the provincial agencies' performance.

Tables 4 and 5 present the development of the actual impact from 2004 to 2005. They differ from Table 2,
which shows the impact of the years prior to the reporting of the actual monetary impact. The Tables
consists of four categories of social programs: social transfers and monetary benefits; non-monetary
transfers and benefits; payments to public employees; and pension and retirement payments. Each category
is reported on the grounds of changes in: newly identified household / individual; deceased beneficiary;
recipient of multiple benefits; ineligible because of income, and (v) ineligibility because of wealth.

Effectiveness

The effectiveness assessment measured the number of new households defined through data matching who
were eligible for social services or transfers but did not receive them. With the steady growth of
participating agencies and improvement of the algorithm, this benefit can be expected to increase, as this
passive method relies on input from a large number of databases.

In 2004, 176,523 new eligible households and new beneficiaries of benefits and transfers were defined.
This number more than tripled in the following year, while the number of participating agencies rose by
only 25 to 155. This indicates more efficient data matching in 2005. The monetary impact for the new
beneficiaries increased from US$5.5 million to US$8.6 million in the same period. This relatively small
increase indicates that the processes to actually change benefits payment requires a certain level of capacity
in the agencies which needs to be built over time. Table 4 shows the social outcomes.


                                                      - 15 -

Moreover, the importance of the impact in the effectiveness in the social sector far is greater than that
shown in the information generated by SINTyS. One useful example was the integration of SINTyS in the
monitoring and targeting of several social programs. A total of 17 special social programs use SINTyS
data to identify and track beneficiaries. However the impact reported does not include the impact of Jefes y
Jefas de Hogar, which uses SINTyS to cross-check eligibility and to identify conditions that were
incompatible with receipt of the benefit as the Ministry of Labor does not report back the results. Thus the
numbers are underreporting the impact of SINTyS.

Table 4 illustrates the development of effectiveness gains over 2004-2005 by different types of data base
reconciliations. In the area of social transfers and benefits, the number of newly identified households grew
from 176,000 to 583,000 in this period. Similarly, the number of identified deceased, for whom payments
were made, grew from just over 2,000 in 2004 to nearly 10,000 in 2005. These increases reflect the
expanding numbers of participating agencies and continuing improvements in SINTyS' methodology and
monitoring.

Table 4 Social Outcomes by number of instances (Effectiveness)

                             No., of              No. of              No. of      Percentage of Percentage
                          Households /         Households /        Households /        total         of total
                           Individuals          Individuals         Individuals     Monetary        Monetary
                                                                                      Impact         Impact
                               2004                2005              Change            2004          2005
 Social Transfers
 and Benefits
New Households               176,523              583,243             330%             36%            33%
Deceased                      2,378                9,756              410%              4%             6%
Multiple benefits             11,062              15,860              143%             17%           12%
Excess income                 11,864              18,305              154%             18%           13%
Excess wealth                 4,758               14,488              304%              4%           11%
Subtotal                     206,585              641,652             311%             79%           73%
Social Services
New Households                   -                   -
Deceased                      77,827              125,572             161%              8%            8%
Multiple benefits               15                 2,400             16000%             0%            0%
Subtotal                      77,842              127,972             164%             8%             8%
Public Employees
Deceased                       152                  26                 17%              1%             0%
Excess income                   60                  321               535%              0%            1%
Excess wealth                   189                 10                 5%               0%            0%
Subtotal                        401                 357               89%              1%             1%
Pensions
New Households                   -                   -
Deceased                        592                2,839              480%              7%            7%
Excess income                   767                1,040              136%              6%            8%
Excess wealth                   68                 2,185              3213%             0%            2%



                                                      - 16 -

Subtotal                        1,427             6,064             425%                14%           16%
TOTAL                         286,255            776,045            271%               100%          100%

Efficiency

The efficiency of SINTyS was measured in three areas, both with respect to the number of users and the
impacts of the database updates initiated by SINTyS. Absolute efficiency was measured in terms of the
total number of underreported deceased, recipients of multiple benefits, and ineligible households. These
were translated into monetary efficiency through reductions in benefits paid. During the last semester of
2004, the number of ineligible recipients totaled 109,732 who received unwarranted social benefits
payments of US$9.8 million. Payments to deceased persons alone amounted to thirty percent of this
amount.

The proportional increase of the efficiency gains, both in the number of households as well as the monetary
impact, indicates that the monetary impact is recurrent and correlated to the coverage of the databases
linked to SINTyS. If the monetary impact were only one-time, with the improvement of the database, the
average monetary impact would go down, as only new databases would provide the high returns of the first
year. The number of households identified as ineligible increased by seventy-eight percent in 2005. The
corresponding monetary impact, shown in Table 5, grew proportionately by seventy-five percent to
US$17.6 million, while savings attributable to the newly deceased remained at thirty percent. The average
savings for each identified ineligible household were US$ 91.50, nearly the same as in 2004 (US$ 89.80).
The absolute amount per household is this low as SINTyS only measured the one-time impact and not the
cumulative impact over the remaining periods. The underlying reason for the more or less constant level of
the monetary impact is the dynamics of the relevant data, i.e., due to live events, such as marriage,
birthdays, and eligibility changes in programs. However the data is not updated automatically, due to the
independence of the agencies. Thus, a certain percentage of errors is likely to persist.

The analysis in the area of social transfers showed that monetary impact per household fell by fifty percent
from US$31 to US$14.80. In the area of heads of household, it can be attributed to the significant increase
in data quality after the first number of data reconciliations, which clarify family relationships. The present
numbers seem to be associated with recurrent data discrepancies due to real household changes, which are
only reported to a few agencies.

Table 5 below shows the efficiency outcomes. It shows the actual monetary impact (in US$ terms) directly
attributable to SINTyS. As noted in the beginning of paragraph 4.1, SINTyS changed its monitoring
methodology and obtained agreements with the participating agencies to report actual monetary impact
realized on the basis of database corrections. These changes went beyond the modifications anticipated
under the Project and have significantly expanded the scope of SINTyS' program benefits. By being able to
measure actual impacts, SINTyS can now validate effective monetary impact in both the provinces and
other participating entities. In 2004, the savings obtained from deleting deceased pensioners from payrolls
exceeded US$1 million. According to SINTyS' figures, this increased in 2005 to US$ 1.76 million. Savings
of discretionary pension plan payments realized through the discoveries of pensioners' supplemental
incomes more than doubled from US$937 thousand in 2004 to US$ 1.9 million in 2005.




                                                    - 17 -

Table 5 Social Outcomes by monetary impact (Efficiency)

                                    Monetary Impact in      Monetary Impact in        Monetary Impact in
                                            US$                      US$                     US$
                                   January ­ December      January ­ December        Year to Year Change
                                           2004                      2005
 Social Transfers and
 Benefits
 New Households                                 5,456,132                8,659,276                  159%
Deceased                                           544,377               1,692,621                  311%
Multiple benefits                                2,527,869               3,217,644                  127%
Excess income                                    2,704,519               3,353,022                  124%
Excess wealth                                      558,226               2,844,850                  510%
 Subtotal                                      11,791,123              19,767,413                   168%
 Social Services
 New Households                                           -                       -
Deceased                                         1,213,903               2,006,927                  165%
Multiple benefits                                      716                  77,654                10846%
 Subtotal                                       1,214,619                2,084,581                  172%
 Public Employees
 Deceased                                           77,346                  14,307                   18%
Excess income                                       49,840                 155,926                  313%
Excess wealth                                       44,962                   9,567                   21%
 Subtotal                                         172,148                  179,800                  104%
 Pensions
 New Households                                           -                       -
Deceased                                         1,147,697               1,760,399                  153%
Excess income                                      937,777               1,997,122                  213%
Excess wealth                                       51,587                 517,212                 1003%
Subtotal                                         2,137,061               4,274,733                  200%
TOTAL SOCIAL                                  15,314,951              26,306,527                   172%
SECTOR



In reviewing the Project's accomplishments, it is also important to note that, in addition to the above;
SINTyS produced other results, which should contribute to increased efficiency and effectiveness in the
social and fiscal sectors. But it also encountered some limitations, which are discussed below.

l Identification of persons and their family relationships


The Ministry of the Interior through the Registro National de Personas (RENAPeR) is maintaining the
vital records of the country. However the database is not complete due to the reporting mechanism of the
provinces to the national agencies. The other major databases maintained by AFIP, ANSES and the
National Electoral Roll each cover a significant subset of the population. However, even when combined,



                                                     - 18 -

gaps remain. This deficit has been overcome by SINTyS through a sophisticated data validation algorithm
which uses five unique identifiers (Box 1) and was used to build a consolidated database of persons, which
is send to RENAPeR for final verification:

Box 1 Unique Identifiers

                   Identifier                                             Source
 Surname and Given Name                              National Election Registry
Date of Birth                                      AFIP/ ANSES / National Election Registry
Gender                                             National Election Registry
ID number                                          National Election Registry
CUIT                                               AFIP
CUIL                                               ANSES

Through the continuous updating of the data, SINTyS was able to build a data collection covering
thirty-three million individuals as of December 31, 2005. As SINTyS was expected to cover seven million
(twenty percent of the population) during its first phase and twenty-eight million (eighty percent of the
population) by the end of the program, it has exceeded its targets. There are still some gaps, though,
especially about citizens' family relationships in the provinces. Once both databases match, SINTyS will
be able to rely on RENAPeR's database as the unique identifier of individuals.

l Medical Insurance Coverage


Through the verification of information in the integrated social services registry, it is now possible to
identify duplicate insurance coverage of individuals in public programs. However, the system is not
designed to identify multiple coverage under private health insurance plans, whose databases are not
integrated in SINTyS.

l Improvement of Provincial Hospital Services


One of the Project's assumptions was that the savings in the health sector would benefit the Provincial
Hospitals directly, either through increased procedures or increases in quality. The Province of Mendoza
attempted to collect this data but was unable to use it for this purpose. Reportedly, the provincial hospitals
financial management database infrastructure proved ineffectual for the task and did not support this effort.
In general the problem is that these monies were fungible. While the level of service was below demand,
any savings might be channeled into non-productive investment operations rather than improvement of
services. Thus any additional resources might not be used in the most important areas. Moreover, to
monitor the desired improvements, the accounting and database infrastructure of the hospitals would have
to be upgraded significantly.

l Pension and other Retirement Payments


The impact of the reconciliation of pension data and contributions has been far greater than anticipated.
Underreporting of income or wealth detected through SINTyS was calculated to have amounted to
excessive pension payments of US$3.5 million from June 2004 to June 2005, much larger than earlier
estimations suggested. Pensioners' additional payment obligations to compensate for this underreporting are
calculated to have grown from just under US$1 million to over US$2.5 million within the year, while the
number of responsible households detected grew from 835 to 3,225. There is some basis for belief,



                                                    - 19 -

however, that the underreporting was not always fraudulent, partly because of employers' (rather than
pensioners') failures to report incomes and some persistent systemic errors in the reporting of incomes and
wages.

l Households Lacking Social Security Coverage


The socioeconomic and demographic family registry SISFAM (Sistema Socioeconómico y Demográfico
de Familias) has been fully integrated into SINTyS and consequently all its beneficiaries are identified.
SISFAM is a registry to identify individuals and households living below the poverty line through a census
system. Even though it is a comprehensive system to register all relevant individuals, it is based on the
voluntary contribution of information from individuals and created manually. Thus it is not complete and
requires permanent updating.

The system's provisions for reverse reconciliation (persons missing in SISFAM) are imperfect as the other
databases are even more incomplete and there are still only a limited number of databases available to
identify non-covered individuals or households. For example, if individuals are not registered in the
Ministry of Labor's Heads of Household database or capacity building programs, SINTyS cannot detect
them through SISFAM if they were missed during the census.

SINTyS and SISFMA are working together to improve the data coverage especially though the
implementation of the social inclusion card in conjunction with the CNCPS to make the process more
dynamic.

l Benefits to Deceased


The problem of continuing payments to the deceased was one of the major reasons for creating SINTyS.
However, it was recognized that the financial sector would need considerable time before it could report
dormant pension accounts or identify accounts maintained by survivors. Nonetheless, SINTyS directly
impacted these unwarranted expenditures by identifying individuals reported to be deceased in other
registries, enabling agencies to terminate their payments.

l Recipients of multiple social services for the same purposes


Due to the considerable autonomy of the provinces and agencies, along with complex guidelines for
receiving individual benefits, it had been impossible to prevent multiple coverage. With the standardization
of the various social service categories and benefits, together with standardized data sets and automatic
data reconciliation, a nearly complete verification is now possible. Also, it is now clear which agency is
responsible for the continuation of payment and can terminate benefits.

l Social Programs Expansion


Since the beginning of the Bank-supported Jefes de Hogar project, it was possible to identify 300,000 out
of an average 2 million individuals who were paid the benefit at least once. Of 40,000 new applications in
2004 for other social programs, SINTyS was able to identify seventy-seven percent as ineligible for a
variety of reasons. This collaboration is significant as it indicates the potential of the government to
improve the targeting of social programs and prevent payments to ineligible beneficiaries.

Component B: Improved Fiscal Efficiency




                                                    - 20 -

This component's performance is rated as Satisfactory.

The objective of this component and its outcomes were defined as: "This component aims to decrease the
number of unregistered potential taxpayers and the level of evasions through incorrect tax returns,
increasing voluntary compliance through an increased perception of risk of evasion detection. As in the
previous component, this would be accomplished by facilitating the interchange of information from
participating agencies and improving the completeness, accuracy and quality of agency data through
cross-validation."

SINTyS has enabled national and provincial tax administrations to access property and employment
databases across the nation to verify taxpayer information. Through the identification of employment
reported in other provinces or through the social security contributors' databases, and the identification of
moveable and immovable assets and income from self-employment in other parts of the country, significant
numbers of new taxpayers were identified and tax payments increased.

Outcome of Component B:

Within the fiscal component, the objective was to demonstrate the potential effects of SINTyS on
increasing tax compliance and identifying new taxpayers, through identifying assets and income in different
states in significant numbers and over a significant period.

Effectiveness

The effectiveness of SINTyS was measured by the number of newly identified taxpayers, most of which
concerned motor vehicle taxes. The previous imperfect vehicle registration systems did not automatically
verify the status of tax obligation payments. By contrast, SINTyS has enabled linking motor vehicle
registration agencies with revenue data to verify payments and registrations. Another area of success was
the detection of underreporting of income taxes in cases of multiple income sources.

The number of individuals and firms underreporting income was found to be far greater than expected. In
2004, a total of 55,521 new taxpayers were identified. This number increased considerably to 170,625 in
2005. However, the verification of new taxpayers by the agencies and the subsequent collection of
additional revenues had the opposite trend and dropped from 40,250 in 2004 to just 1,442 in 2005. This
decline can be attributed to the due diligence in the area of tax audits, which is much higher and requires
significantly more time than in the area of social services. Thus the additional revenues will most likely
only be realized with a natural lag of up to one year.

Additional Revenues (Efficiency)

In contrast with the monetary impact realized in the social sector, where monetary impact freed resources in
approved budgets, additional revenues obtained from the fiscal component provide real additional resources
for ongoing budgets. These funds had not been budgeted for and reduced fiscal burdens through additional
revenues. In 2004, the total additional revenues from newly identified taxpayers amounted to US$5.7
million (ref. Table 6). The following year, it fell to US$1.9 million; a still substantial sum, but only likely
to be realized during 2006. It should be noted, in this connection, that the figures in Table 6 differ from
those in Tables 1 and 2 because of coverages of different periods. Also, detailed breakdowns the different
social programs have only been available for 2004/2005.




                                                     - 21 -

Table 6 Fiscal Outcomes

                Benchmark                       2004            2004            2005             2005
 Potential Total Additional Tax Revenues        New          Additional         New           Additional
                                             Taxpayers Revenues in US$ Taxpayers Revenues in US$
 New Taxpayers                                  55,521            5,732,406    *170,625           1,990,003
Underreporting                                                                                    1,368,509
Outstanding Taxes                                                                11,785             348,095
 Total Fiscal Sector                            55,521            5,732,406     182,410           3,706,607
 Actual Total Additional Tax Revenues**         New          Additional         New           Additional
                                             Taxpayers Revenues in US$ Taxpayers Revenues in US$
 New Taxpayers                                  40,250            5,319,032      *1,422             103,076
Underreporting                                                                                        74,215
Outstanding Taxes                                                                 1,065               24,703
 Total Fiscal Sector                            40,250       ***5,319,032 ***2,487                 201,994
* Numbers of new taxpayers vary from the figures shown in Table 2 because of the time lag in agencies
reporting on fiscal outcomes
** Tax revenues shown here are smaller than those shown in Table 2 because of the same lag.
*** Temporary estimates, pending verification of the number of identified taxpayers, also reflecting the
reporting lag.

The identification of underreporting of taxes and taxpayers in default was made possible in 2004, through a
broadened classification system and improved quality in identifying individuals in the unified database. In
2005 the combined potential monetary impact of both (row two and three) reached US$1.7 million. It is
expected that these numbers will be rather stable as underreporting of taxes and defaulting on tax payments
are recurrent systemic problems.

Component C: Institutional Framework, Infrastructure and Common Services

This component's performance is rated as Satisfactory.

The objective of this component and the outcomes were defined as: "This component will provide the
enabling legal and technology infrastructure within a comprehensive institutional framework to address
the need for a sustainable, systematic and efficient information interchange environment. It will also
provide the certification necessary for the identification of people and legal entities to establish a
framework that guarantees information confidentiality and privacy. Existing institutional arrangements
and technology will be used, including current data formats and protocols, so as to demonstrate benefits
readily and to retain the main purposes of these arrangements.

SINTyS developed a technical infrastructure capable of reliably verifying and reconciliation databases
across agencies. The present stage of development is a fully functional version of a web based system to
allow real time access to SINTyS. In developing the system, SINTyS provided technical assistance to
participating agencies in order to upgrade their database standards and security to ensure the integrity of



                                                   - 22 -

the databases and data transmission as well as investments in information technology. Part of this activity
was the creation of a technical advisory committee integrated by SINTyS, with ANSES, AFIP and
RENAPeR representatives to improve data and security standards and avoid duplication of efforts.

Outcome of Component C:

In the course of the implementation of SINTyS, it was possible to transform the project from an ad hoc
data management tool to a fully integrated, automated system with high standards in data transmission
security. Especially in the last phase of the Project, security, access to data, and operational continuity were
improved. With the assistance of the Public Investment Secretariat, the Project helped strengthening the
overall coverage and quality of the ISP in the country.

The institutional framework activities have had an especially important impact in addressing problems of
fraud in the country. Mendoza Province and a number of the national agencies are seen to be more strictly
monitoring their programs, thanks to SINTyS and the improved ability to better target their programs. One
of the milestones was the new requirement that all provinces participating in the fiscal responsibility pact
had to adhere to SINTyS.

Component D: Management of the System

This component's performance is rated as Satisfactory.

The objective of this component and its outcomes were defined as: "This component will develop and
implement the structure and processes which will be used initially to control the execution of the project
and eventually to manage the on-going SINTyS program which will ensure that the benefits from the two
substantive components will continue to be derived. This would include inter-jurisdictional coordination
and legal agreements."

Significant developments included the negotiation of agreements entered into with participating agencies to
allow SINTyS to manage the data reconciliation and defining access rights of the various agencies. In
addition to the original goal, the SINTyS management enhanced the agreements by requiring the agencies to
verify the administrative steps performed following data crossing and reporting of the actual monetary
impact generated due to the correction of the data. Also, SINTyS management worked together with the
project administration to ensure the "ownership" of the participating agencies and the Project's
responsiveness to provincial and national concerns.

Outcome of Component D:

The system management team implemented the first functioning of SINTyS during the first two years, and
improved it thereafter. Most important, it managed to develop a system that fit and was successfully
adapted with the institutional framework, and helped shape it within a secure environment. One of the
largest efforts, and probably the most important one for the desired impact, was the data coding exercise.
This allowed the communication of databases without compromising their integrity.

It proved, not to be possible to create the "master-database" which some in the government was proposed
that would have contained all tax and social data. Fortunately, this idea was dropped since it hurt SINTyS'
credibility. Even though the data codes were standardized at one point, eligibility criteria differed and the
agencies insisted on their ownerships of the data. Another error was the proposed reconciliation with the
ANSES database, which would have caused the cancellation of all benefits of individuals in the dataset for


                                                      - 23 -

a short period. SINTyS' quality management detected this potential problem and rectified it immediately.

Component E: Project Administration

This component is rated as satisfactory.

The objective of this component and its outcomes were defined in the PAD as: "This component will
provide the administrative, accounting and other services that will support the execution of the project."

In addition to the overall relatively successful administration of the Project and its accounting, the project
administration contributed significant value by garnering the necessary political support for SINTyS.

Outcome of Component E:

In the first years, the project administration performed generally satisfactorily and activities were
implemented in line with the agreed execution plan. However, capacity problems later caused slight delays,
which fortunately were not significant, enabling the Project to achieve the majority of its targets on a timely
basis. During the Project's later stages, it was adversely affected by several shocks, notably the Argentine
fiscal crisis in 2001/2002. This caused government wide restrictions on spending, which slowed the
implementation of many activities in the country. Subsequently, though, there were renewed energetic
leadership and stronger government support. This and SINTyS' dedicated team enabled the Project to make
further progress.

Summary

Phase I of SINTyS exceeded its objectives. It successfully demonstrated the benefits of comprehensive
information exchange based on relatively advanced modern technology. It thereby won the participation of
a sufficiently substantial number of entities to establish consensus for widespread buy-in to the concepts
and benefits. National and provincial agencies now actively seek SINTyS' support to monitor their social
spending and rationalize their beneficiaries. They still remain in command of the ultimate decisions about
the efficiency, effectiveness and impacts of their social services. But, by demonstrating the considerable
potential monetary impact in these activities, SINTyS has created incentives for them to take the steps
needed to realize the monetary impact. The Project also demonstrated a useful mechanism for improving
the efficiency and effectiveness of social sector programs and fiscal administrations, which can be used to
strengthen their managers' tools and decision-making.

There were substantial accomplishments on the institutional side as well as on the technical aspects. The
Project promoted and helped effect the basis for institutional changes, most prominently the integration of
monitoring and evaluation into social policy making and perhaps set landmarks for data privacy.
Inter-agency collaboration was boosted, notably crossing federal-provincial boundaries. The Project also
demonstrated useful opportunities for and methods of improving the transparency of and accountability for
costly and wide-ranging public services.

In addition, SINTyS received a commendation at the United Nations World Summit on the Information
Society in November 2005, in the e-government category.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It is rather unusual for a technical assistance operation in the public sector to achieve verifiable, monetary
results. However, since its change in methodology, SINTyS is able to verify actual monetary impact in the



                                                    - 24 -

participating agencies. The agencies now monitor the actions taken due to discrepancies in their databases
highlighted by the SINTyS data reconciliations. This enables the checking of errors and reconciliation of
data discussed in paragraph 4.1, which can identify their consequences in monetary terms.

Based on the data provided, the total verified monetary impact of Phase I through December 2005 were
US$130.5 million. Taking into account a moderate six percent interest rate, the net present value of the
operation to date would then be US$106 million, an impressive result.

The economic rate of return is not possible to calculate.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
In 2001, when the Project was scheduled to have closed, its financial rate of return already exceeded the
benchmark significantly. Loan disbursements at the end of 2001 amounted to US$6.54 million. The
potential monetary impact was US$134 million. These results would provide a potential rate of return of
1472% for the first three years of operation.

Calculating the rate of return over the total span of project implementation, the results are similarly
impressive, even when using the verified monetary impact and not the potential ones. In the years following
the initiallly targeted completion date, the Project invested the remaining US$3.46 million of the Loan.
During the following years, the estimated actual monetary impact totaled US$130.5 million (ref. Table 2).
This results in an estimated internal rate of return of 1713%.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact was Substantial in its contribution to the improvement of
the government's ability to make more effective use of its human and financial resources. Moreover, it did
so with respect to several different institutions, in addition to the program's own organization.

SINTyS can be perceived of as a system since, it provides a framework and methodology for information
sharing, verification and their applications. However, it also developed into an institution per se which,
with the Project's assistance, was created, tested and became viable and strong. Its work and the wide range
of its influence on other entities in Argentina's public sector, have provided new, valuable instruments for
upgrading the country's uses of its manpower and financial resources, These originated with the
government's decrees creating SINTyS and requiring legal asset transactions to be identified through the
Unique Labor Identification Number (CUIT), Unique Tax Identification Number (CUIL), or Individual
Identification Number (DNI).

The Project's institutional development impact also directly affected the now 17 major national social sector
and fiscal agencies, which elected to participate in SINTyS. This resulted from the SINTyS­agency
agreements defined under this Project. The resulting arrangement has significantly improved the
performance of their core tasks: providing country-wide services and managing revenue collection functions
potential for better with very important benefits for their public finance responsibilities. The Project can be
credited with enriching these program's data mechanisms, security provisions, user guidelines, privacy
rules, database norms, etc.

Furthermore, the previous paragraph's contents also apply to 22 provinces and their agencies and others
who are participating in the program, thanks to the numerous inter-governmental collaboration and
SINTyS' technical assistance arrangements.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome



                                                       - 25 -

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Financial crisis: The financial crisis at the end of 2001 created difficulties which limited the resources
needed for the project's implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Political and macroeconomic instability: Argentina's unstable political and macroeconomic environment in
the early years of implementation was a negative factor. Political instability caused frequent changes in the
Project's administration.

Lack of continuity in project management Project implementation was affected by frequent managerial
changes. In addition to the changes in the project administration's leadership, the Project was transferred
from the Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros to the Consejo Nacional de Policías Sociales, which had
mixed results. Towards the end of the implementation period, this change caused SINTyS lo lose some
political support.

Absense of budget: During 2001, there were political quarrels resulting in the government's not allocating a
budget for the Project's implementation, which raised concerns about its operations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of continuity of the administration: During frequent changes of leadership, the strategy of the Project
administration changed with every administrator. This caused some disruption in implementation. Some of
the changes, however, were beneficial with the fresh ideas of the new administrations, often constructive in
nature.

Uneven political support: The project administration's main task was to ensure political support for the
project. This required consensus building, and good presentation of the project to the relevant interest
groups and players. The administrators were not uniformly good at building this support, and especially in
the early stages, this part of the job was neglected, resulting in a slow pace of consensus building.

Continuity of the Program: The program went through a number of stages in which its continuity was
threatened (e.g., by the financial crisis, political changes, difficulties in maintaining consensus, data sharing
issues.) But with the help of Bank intervention, this problem was solved.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Phase I of SINTyS was supported by a US$10 million loan from the Bank and the government was
expected to contribute US$2 million. Ultimately, the Project was financed with US$ 10.44 million,
including US$0.44 million from the Borrower. Under the agreed arrangements, the Bank transferred its
disbursements into special accounts of the UNOPS, which acted as an agent for the government on all
procurement actions.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of SINTyS is deemed likely.

The benefits of information exchanges have been demonstrated to potential stakeholders, who have clearly
moved to install and draw on its methods in order to derive the aforementioned gains. In addition, the
"demonstration" phase of the program has also clearly won the participation of enough provincial as well
as national entities to establish broad national consensus and momentum for even wider buy-in to SINTyS'
concept and benefits. As indicated, participating agencies are already generating substantial actual



                                                       - 26 -

monetary impact or additional revenues through the system. The Province of Mendoza has requested the
full implementation of SINTyS in all provincial and municipal agencies. Virtually all provinces have
entered into operating agreement with SINTyS, far more than the forecast number. The government, after
the fiscal crisis, obligated all provinces participating in the fiscal responsibility pact to adhere to SINTyS.

Moreover, the program's legal framework has been bolstered; its access rights issues are resolved, and its
initial ad hoc, basic methodology has been fortified and raised to higher standards with the move to the
Internet-enabled technology infrastructure. These advances provide strong signs of further demand for the
program.

In addition, it appears evident that the SINTyS organization itself is mature and here to stay. To be sure, it
still needs to be institutionalized even though it is a fully on-going, and relatively independent entity.
SINTyS has not yet been given a firm place in the government structure or assurance of solid political
backing, continuing budget support and career staff. However, the present administration has indicated that
it expects to incorporate the organization into the government's framework, absorb a portion of its
personnel in the government's regular staff, and to lessen its dependence on external financing. These
signals are considered to be supportive.

The Bank's CAS for 2006-2008 includes provisions for a followup APL second phase to help support this
development. Originally, SINTyS institutionalization was to be achieved in the third phase of its program.
But now the government intends to advance this process. It has informed the Bank that it will start
financing 30 percent of the staff with its own resources.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Borrower has already moved SINTyS' implementation into the expansion phase. It began this, as
noted, with funds available from the APL first phase. Now, it is advancing that process under the existing
State Modernization Program loan (AR-4423). This will permit the partial utilization of some of the
savings that were generated as a combined result of the reduction of the scope of the State Modernization
Project and the impact of the Argentine peso devaluation. This will provide an estimated US$8 million,
which should ensure SINTyS the necessary funds to proceed with the inmediate priorities of the second
phase, which the government is eager to more forward, without implementation interruptions.

The measures to be taken are intended to make substantial strides towards inserting SINTyS permanently
in Argentina's public sector at national and provincial levels, an objective that will be consolidated during
Phase III. On this account, an APL II has been included in the lending program for the new 2006-2008
CAS.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory.

Its work during the loan preparation stage was of very high quality. As a result, the Project strategy and the
selection of lending instruments were very appropriate for addressing the issues. The assessment of
different project alternatives was balanced and its conclusions well justified. Technical, financial and
economic aspects were properly analyzed. The fiduciary elements and implementation provisions were
adequate. The different risks were properly identified and the mitigation measures were appropriate for the
circumstances.




                                                       - 27 -

These were important factors for addressing the types of changes which the government sought in order to
attain the Project's objectives. It also was instrumental in enabling the newly created SINTyS organization
to successfully overcome in large part the numerous impediments which it faced in mobilizing and initiating
its program, that are elaborated in Section 3.5 of this Report. This assistance proved to be critical for this
fledgling unit's accomplishments. It also was salutary in the avoidance of large, long-term investments and
providing flexibility for containing possible risks.

The Bank's assistance helped the government initiate the Project on a timely basis in response to its priority
needs. This was especially useful as, notwithstanding the widespread concerns about fraudulent social
sector practices and tax evasion, support in Argentina for addressing these problems was limited.
Moreover, the lack of appropriate local or international technological models and legal and institutional
foundations complicated the design of a workable, durable mechanism. In addition, the Bank's assistance
was somewhat distinctive in departing from some relatively standard Bank practices in technical assistance
projects. This applied particularly to the Project's sequencing and the relationships of national and
provincial entities.

7.2 Supervision:
Overall the Bank's supervision of this operation is rated satisfactory.

Initial project supervision was characterized by very intensive technical assistance. This was necessary as
the government did not have the required capacities for mobilizing the national and provincial agencies to
participate in SINTyS and to engage in its collaboration requirements. The Bank team was able to lay out a
broadly acceptable vision and goal for potential users during the negotiations carried on over the first year.
The Project was launched satisfactorily on the technical side during this period as well, considerably thanks
to the Bank's technological and communication skills.

Over the implementation period, the Bank supervised the Project at least once every year with suitable
teams. They identified project issues and difficulties on time, and kept both Bank management and key
agencies such as the Ministry on Economy and Production and the Chief of Cabinet properly informed. It
was a very good practice of the Bank team during most of the implementation period to reflect the project's
ratings in the Aide Memoires, which also alerted the implementing as well as other key agencies on the
Project's progress and issues. With such quality effort, problems were identified in time and dealt with
constructively. On this and other occasions, the Bank team obtained the support of Bank managers, the
CMU and the procurement staff. In addition, every time problems arose, the Bank team agreed with the
Borrower on remedial action plans with clear targets and time frames. This made it much easier to resolve
these issues.

The Bank team's flexibility in dealing with the requests for Closing Date extensions was particularly
beneficial. New project targets were defined for each extension. With these actions, the Bank team played
a key role in keeping this project moving forward, even during the period in which Argentina was going
through very difficult times.

In addition, the Bank's team's successful agreement with the government on coordinating the task
management of this project and ANSES-I (Loan No. 4131-AR) was a key factor during project supervision
in obtaining support from ANSES in providing access to its data bases. This was significant since ANSES
manages up to 40% of Argentina's social sector budget and is responsible for paying pension and other
social benefits. This coordination was also helpful for the Social Protection IV Project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:



                                                    - 28 -

The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

 During project preparation, highly qualified teams were put together, good assessments were made of key
issues, proper risks were identified and appropriate measures set to mitigate them.

Following a Bank team leadership change, its focus turned to improving the institutional framework and
advancing the system beyond the demonstration point. When political support for the project was waning,
the team managed to help reignite interest in SINTyS.

Throughout the Project's implementation, the Bank's teams provided timely and effective interventions to
assist the Borrower. Simultaneously, they were also very good at building and maintaining a positive
partnership with the client, although there were some very difficult issues that had to be dealt with. One
was SINTyS' use of a large number of individual consultants, which was particularly troubling since it
caused problems of supervision (and other factors which the presence of a firm might have eliminated).
Fortunately, however, an agreement has now been reached. This is important since it involves a substantive
issue ­ the role and size of PIUs ­ on which Bank and government policy are both moving towards a major
change from past practices.

Overall, however, there were collaborative relationships, which reflected the Bank team's effective dialogue
with the authorities. It was also instrumental in helping to build the consensus that was necessary to keep
the Project on target and the overall program moving. That was very important in enabling the government
to fully implement a politically charged activity and achieve significant progress in the social and fiscal
sectors.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory.

It helpfully contributed from the outset by its 1998 act, which established SINTyS and its decree in the
same year which required all legal asset transactions to identify their participants through the CUITS,
CUIL and CDI numbers. It also provided for the creation of a SINTyS manager in the national Social
Security Administration.

The government secured the support of a major province (Mendoza) and assisted in the engagement of the
participation of the major national social sector agencies. Moreover the government identified synergies
between ANSES and SINTyS and advanced both projects concurrently.

The government team which helped prepare the project was of high quality and technically very competent.
With these skills, it actively participated in the definition of the strategy of sharpening information sharing
as a key step towards improvements in the social and fiscal sectors. It fully grasped SINTyS' potential and
possibilities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's performance was uneven, but satisfactory as a whole.

Over the course of project implementation, the several administrations in office displayed waning degrees
of support for its advancement. This was true at a particularly low level in 2001-2003, when, as in the case
of other Bank-supported projects, Argentina's economic, social and political conditions were not conducive
for external investments for reforms. At one point, the SINTyS budget was basically eliminated in the



                                                      - 29 -

wake of the financial crisis, which caused resource shortages.

Fortunately, these problems did not derail or deter the satisfactory completion of the Phase I objectives,
thanks to progressive improvements in a number of areas, and dedicated managerial and technical support
by the implementing agency. Moreover, during the past few years, the newly elected administration
strengthened SINTyS' role and incorporated it in the current State Modernization agenda. It directly
bolstered its support of the program, partly thanks to the efforts of the policy committee coordinating the
program and the adoption of several new national rules regarding SINTyS' activities. Also, the authorities
backed SINTyS' advancement with a number of key legal and institutional changes. Particularly valuable
was its request that the provinces' signing the fiscal sustainability pact adhere to SINTyS.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's performance is assessed as satisfactory. Throughout Phase I, its commitment
to the program's objectives was strong, and its participation in project preparation was spirited and of good
quality. SINTyS' staff consistently understood the basic problems, and showed considerable skill and high
professional capacity in helping to resolve them.

The Bank and SINTyS agreed on detailed indicators for all additional activities throughout Project
implementation. For every activity, a baseline was determined and a problem analysis carried out. In
addition, benchmarks for the next six months were determined, as well as a review conducted of the
previous six months progress.

Unfortunately, SINTyS had five different coordinators, whose contributions were uneven but generally
helpful because of their varied skills. The organization tended to be overly cautious and reluctant to use
simplified procurement procedures, opting instead for ICB methods. During the later phase of project
implementation, SINTyS installed a good monitoring system, a new methodology to evaluate "real impact"
and a strategic plan for expansion, which were agreed with the Bank. SINTyS also displayed good
initiatives during project implementation. In addition to its change in methodology on calculating benefits,
after SINTyS learned that the provinces were unable to exchange information on legal entities and land
properties, it provided for technical assistance to help improve the provinces' databases.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the government during Phase I is rated satisfactory on balance.

8. Lessons Learned

1.       Previous Bank-supported projects in Argentina had indicated potentially high benefits from
crosschecking information contained in assorted government databases, resulting in significant monetary
impact by detection of fraud and misallocations. SINTyS built on these earlier successes by generalizing
data exchanges across levels of government in a sustainable manner.

2.       The Project was successful in obtaining working agreements and cooperation among entities
generally unaccustomed to working together at technical levels.              This was abetted by SINTyS'
demonstration that it could provide a helpful information "trading platform," require only minimally
invasive changes, and involve low transaction costs. By documenting measurable and real results, SINTyS
also generated interest in its function and the support of the participating agencies and others. The Bank's
performance of the role of an "honest broker" among the agencies also facilitated the inter-institutional
collaboration.




                                                     - 30 -

3.       In an unclear, exploratory situation, it is useful to start small, focusing first on demonstrating early
wins, establishing the credibility of the overall program, and preparing the groundwork for later, more
substantial investments. The design for this initial activity should also provide sufficient flexibility to deal
with unexpected developments and/or permit pursuing unanticipated benefits.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is a summary of the statement provided by SINTyS in its assessment of the results
of the Project:

SINTyS has been a very valuable decision-making tool for various government agencies,
facilitating more efficient management, creating a culture of openness and information exchange,
and building the foundation for cooperation among national, provincial and municipal agencies.

The first stage of the APL exceeded significantly the planned goals. During this first phase, a
normative and technological framework was designed to overcome the disparities and
fragmentation of social and fiscal information in Argentina. With it, the protectionism of the
agencies' databases was opened up once the gradual introduction of information exchange
established the need for information sharing between the various jurisdictions to ensure quality
information.

During the project implementation, it was beneficial to separate the two administrative
components of the project: the project administration and the technical implementation and
operation of SINTyS.

Exceptional results were made possible among others by:

·        Strong political support from the authorities of the National Council of Coordination of
Social Policies and of the highest national authorities
·        The strong acceptance of the concept of information exchange by all levels of the public
sector, technical experts and the participating national and provincial agencies
·        The proactive development and implementation of a strategy of problem diagnosis in the
areas of access and information exchange and quality of information, as well as demonstrating the
benefits of the progressive use of the system.
·        The protection of privacy principles and confidentiality of information

During the next phase of operations, it is expected that the results achieved thus far will increase
through the implementation of a virtual network of the participating agencies, allowing a complete
elimination of the barriers to information exchange. SINTyS will continue the strategy of
decentralization into the provincial and municipal levels through the creation of Regional
Coordination units functioning as nods between the provinces and municipalities, and as an
intermediary to the central SINTyS. Finally, SINTyS will be integrated in the overall public sector
as an independent agency.

Comments in Spanish



                                                      - 31 -

El SINTyS ha sido una herramienta muy valiosa para la toma de decisiones de los distintos organismos que
conforman el Estado Argentino, facilitando una gestión más eficiente, creando una cultura del intercambio y
sentando las bases para una interoperabilidad entre organismos nacionales, provinciales y municipales.

Surgió en el año 1998 como una iniciativa del Estado, para superar la desarticulación y fragmentación
existente entre las distintas bases de datos de los organismos públicos de las distintas jurisdicciones del país,
y bajo la premisa que sin un sistema adecuado de identificación de personas y sus atributos sociales y
fiscales, los organismos encargados de la administración de las políticas públicas, no contaban con
información suficiente para realizar evaluaciones, con los consiguientes riesgos de otorgar beneficios a
aquellos que, en realidad, no lo necesitaban y que no tributen quienes deberían hacerlo.

De esta forma el SINTyS se pensó como una herramienta del Estado Nacional, Provincial y Municipal para
favorecer la gestión de los organismos, proporcionando el marco (tecnológico y normativo) para que los
organismos colaboren en la formación y mantenimiento de una red de intercambio de información
compartida que sustente la administración de información confiable y oportuna, con herramientas y métodos
para asegurar niveles de seguridad de acceso, privilegiando la confidencialidad y privacidad de los datos
administrados.

La meta específica del SINTyS­ a partir de la coordinación del intercambio de información de personas y
sus atributos sociales y fiscales entre los distintos organismos- es lograr que los datos registrados en las
distintas bases nacionales, provinciales y municipales existentes, provean una identificación uniforme y
homogénea de las personas físicas y jurídicas con sus atributos tributarios y sociales, a los fines del
intercambio.

Su diseño fue bien concebido en tres etapas - demostración, expansión y consolidación -. Durante la fase de
demostración (Fase I) el proyecto debía probar que el intercambio de información entre organismos del
Estado era factible, es decir que el concepto por el que fue concebido era válido.

Este desarrollo paulatino le ha dado flexibilidad, permitiendo que el proyecto no fracase, teniendo en cuenta
la inexistencia en el país de una cultura del intercambio de información.

La primer etapa que concluye ha sido significativa superando ampliamente las metas establecidas.

En el desarrollo de esta fase se diseñó un abordaje normativo y tecnológico, teniendo en cuenta las
disparidades y fragmentación de la información en la Argentina.          A su vez se venció la cultura de
organismos con base de datos estancas, ya que el intercambio paulatino derivó en que éstos se dieran cuenta
que es necesaria la comunicación entre las diferentes jurisdicciones para obtener calidad en la información.

Fue necesario consolidar internamente entre los ejecutores del proyecto y hacia afuera -- - entre los
funcionarios involucrados -, las bondades y efectos de las herramientas ofrecidas por el proyecto. De esta
forma ha sido necesario ir ganando apoyo progresivo de cada uno de los organismos mediante la
demostración de los resultados que podrían obtener a partir del acceso a un sistema de intercambio de
información de personas.

Progresos Destacados durante Fase I

Se ha creado una masa critica de actividad y se han demostrados beneficios sustanciales de la participación
en el programa por parte de los organismos del Estado. Durante la Fase I, los beneficios de SINTyS han


                                                      - 32 -

excedido en forma significativa las expectativas originales, ascendiendo a aproximadamente US$130
millones con un costo de implementación de sólo US$10 millones.

Entre los principales resultados destacamos:

l Diseño de un marco normativo idóneo para su más eficiente y eficaz desenvolvimiento, teniendo en
    cuenta su desarrollo a nivel federal y el carácter privado de la información y la confidencialidad.
l Diseño e implementación de un marco tecnológico acorde, sobrecumpliendo las metas previstas en este
    sentido para la Fase I y las condicionalidades para comenzar la fase II ­ de hecho, se llevó a cabo la
    primera interconexión en línea con las provincias de Mendoza, Salta, Santa Fe y Jujuy, concretando la
    primera descentralización territorial de los servicios de intercambio de información- .
l Reconocimiento de los principales problemas para un intercambio fluido de datos en el plano
    tecnológico y de competencias entre organismos. Esto incluye el establecimiento de estándares de datos
    y algoritmos para el intercambio, definición de niveles de acceso de acuerdo con la competencia de cada
    organismo y de pautas de seguridad para el acceso a la información.
l Consolidación de una base de datos de registración de personas ­ 33 millones -, que toma los registros
    más confiables de las personas de los principales padrones del país (AFIP/ANSES/ Padrón Electoral),
    validando cada dato de indicación con el padrón más confiable para el origen del mismo, a fin de
    superar la restricción de contar con información unívoca de personas para el sistema de intercambio.
l Desarrollo de un aplicativo denominado Ventanilla Unica de Organismos (VUO), a fin de permitir la
    consulta en línea de las personas identificadas unívocamente y sus atributos, con un esquema de
    seguridad idóneo para garantizar su correcto funcionamiento.- .
l Adhesión de 22 provincias y el Gobierno de la Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires. 22 Acuerdos con
    Organismos Nacionales y 7 Municipios a lo largo del país.
l 155 entidades gubernamentales que participan del SINTyS, entre las que se encuentran 35 entidades a
    nivel nacional (incluyendo AFIP, ANSES y RENAPER) y 120 entidades a nivel provincial - de las
    cuales 7 corresponden a entidades de nivel municipal -.
l 4 provincias (Mendoza, Salta, Santa Fe y Jujuy) ya tienen establecidas unidades coordinadoras
    provinciales (UCPs) para comenzar con el proceso de descentralización del SINTyS a realizarse durante
    la Fase II. Asimismo, se celebró el primer acuerdo con un organismo nacional, la Secretaria de Políticas
    Sociales y Desarrollo Humano de la Presidencia, para permitir la interconexión en línea entre las partes
    prevista en la próxima fase de operación.
l Integración de 659 Bases de Datos de Organismos Nacionales, Provinciales y Municipales acumuladas
    a diciembre de 2005, que posibilitan la colaboración con el Poder Judicial, dando respuesta a 274
    oficios judiciales solicitando solicitan información de personas y la realización de 1.202 servicios de
    intercambio de información acumulados al mes de diciembre de 2005, relacionados con:

l Validación de Personas y del CUIT/CUIL/CDI
l Supervivencia;
l Pluricobertura de Programas Sociales y Jubilaciones y Pensiones;
l Elegibilidad de Beneficiarios para Programas Sociales y Jubilaciones y Pensiones;
l Localización Geográfica y Domicilios;
l Cobertura y Pluricobertura de Salud;
l Verificación de Situación Laboral (Empleo Público y Privado) y Pluriempleo;
l Detección de Actividad Económica, Chequeo de Base Imponible y Segmentación de Contribuyentes
    según Capacidad Contributiva
l Implementación de 15 proyectos especiales relacionados con la realización de acciones para permitir que
    el sistema se alimente y provea más y mejor calidad de información de las personas, a partir de la
    asistencia técnica y metodológica para desarrollar, poner en marcha y/o mejorar registros de datos, de
    acorde a estándares de información gubernamental.


                                                      - 33 -

l Registros de Propiedad Inmueble: asistencia los Registros del país para la conformación de la base de
    datos de titulares de dominio.
l Inspecciones Generales de Justicia: actividades de colaboración para llevar a cabo la actualización de
    los registros de las Inspecciones,
l Legajo Unico de Alumnos: asistencia para la conformación del legajo en el marco del programa
    PREGASE del Ministerio de Educación de la Nación.


Es de destacar que los logros mencionados fueron posibles como consecuencia de:

l el fuerte apoyo político desde las autoridades del Consejo Nacional de Coordinación de Políticas
    Sociales y de las máximas autoridades nacionales.
l la alta receptividad del concepto de intercambio de información entre funcionarios y técnicos de los
    organismos nacionales, provinciales y municipales.
l el desarrollo e implementación por parte de la unidad de una estrategia proactiva consistente en
    diagnosticar los problemas en cuanto al acceso, intercambio y calidad de información entre las distintas
    bases de datos de los organismos y demostrar los beneficios de utilización progresiva del sistema.
l La protección de los principios de privacidad y confidencialidad de la información.


Durante la próxima fase de operación, se espera que los resultados obtenidos hasta el presente se expandan,
a partir de la implementación de una red virtual compartida entre las distintas jurisdicciones, que facilite la
completa desaparición de las barreras para el intercambio de información entre los organismos participantes.
Se continuará con la descentralización territorial a nivel provincial y municipal, mediante la implementación
de las Unidades Coordinadoras que operen como nodos con las pautas y competencias para el intercambio
de información dadas por SINTyS a nivel centralizado. Por último se propiciará la inserción del SINTyS en
la estructura de la administración pública nacional.

 (b) Cofinanciers:
 N/A

 (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
 N/A

 10. Additional Information

          A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

          Miguel Mercado-Diaz, Senior Operations Officer, Task Team Leader
          Wolfgang K.C. Koehling, Economist/ICR Primary Author
          Herman J. Nissenbaum , Consultant
          Georgio Valentini, ET Consultant
          Karla Lopez Flores, Program Assistant
          Ramiro Lopez Ghio, Consultant

          B.      List of Task Team Leaders of the Project

          Luís-José Mejía
          Raul Benitez
          Miguel Mercado-Diaz

          C.      Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:



                                                      - 34 -

Theresa Jones, Lead Operations Officer, The World Bank
Miguel Mercado-Diaz, Senior Operations Officer, The World Bank
Vanina Conporiale, SINTyS
Ramiro Lopez Ghio, Consultant, The World Bank
Gustavo Butteri, Infrastructure Coordinator, SINTyS
Luís-José Mejía, Previous Task Team Leader, The World Bank




                                         - 35 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Outcome / Impact Indicators:

                                 Indicator/Matrix                                    Projected in last PSR Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                                               1


Overall:                                                                             a) 8 agencies b) 7    155 Agencies
a) Number of agencies using consistent common processes to identify entities and million residents         32 million Persons covered
assets.                                                                                                    (95 % of Population
b) Percentage of the population uniquely identified and with family relationship data
For Social Services:                                                                 150,000               759,766
a) Effectiveness: number of identified, entitled beneficiary households previously
not receiving services: 150,000
For Social Services:                                                                 b) 100,000  c)        302,539 Individuals Identified
a) Efficiency: Number of beneficiary households incorrectly receiving benefits       US$16 million         Total actual Savings in 2006
(100,000); b) amount of incorrect benefits not awarded (savings of US$16 million).                         US$ 91 million
For Fiscal Programs:                                                                 a) 3,000 b) US$25     226,146 new Taxpayers
a) Effectiveness: increase of 3,000 in the number of registered taxpayers or         million               Total actual savings in 2006
taxpayers identified as making insufficient payments                                                       US$ 39.47 million
b) Efficiency: increase of US$25 million in collections



Output Indicators:
                                                                                              1
                          Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of agencies using consistent common processes to              11 (6 agencies; 5 provinces) 155 agencies, 675 databases, and 23
identify entities and assets                                                                       Provinces
Percentage of the population uniquely identified and with family     Phase I: 20% of population (7 95 % (32 million)
relationships                                                        million)




                                                                   - 36 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Improvement of Social Service Delivery                     4.10            1.27           0.31

B. Improvement of Fiscal Efficiency                           3.40            0.76           0.22

C. Institutional Framework, Infrastructure and Common         2.10            4.37           2.08
Services

D. Program Management                                         0.20            0.71           3.55

E. Project Administration                                     0.60            1.38            2.3

PPF Refinancing                                               1.50            1.55           1.03
Phase 1

General Coordination Project                                                  0.30


Total Baseline Cost                                          11.90          10.34
                         Total Project Costs                 11.90          10.34
                                          Front-end fee       0.10            0.10           1.00
                   Total Financing Required                  12.00          10.44


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB               2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00             1.00         0.40         0.00         1.40
                                    (0.00)          (1.00)      (0.40)         (0.00)      (1.40)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00         7.70         0.00         7.70
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (6.20)         (0.00)      (6.20)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00         1.30         0.00         1.30
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.80)         (0.00)      (0.80)
5. Front-end Fee                    0.00             0.00         0.10         0.00         0.10
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)      (0.10)
6. PPF Refinancing                  0.00             0.00         1.50         0.00         1.50
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.50)         (0.00)      (1.50)
   Total                            0.00             1.00        11.00         0.00        12.00
                                    (0.00)          (1.00)      (9.00)         (0.00)     (10.00)



                                                 - 37 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00               3.02              0.00             0.00              3.02
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              5.05             0.00              5.05
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.28             0.00              0.28
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Front-end Fee                       0.00               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.10
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. PPF Refinancing                     0.00               0.00              1.55             0.00              1.55
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               3.02              6.98             0.00             10.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 38 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Unlike other public sector reform programs the National Social and fiscal Identification Program lends
itself for a straight forward economic analysis.



Cost to Date            Potential Savings    Actual Savings      IRR                   NPV
USD 6.54 Million        USD 134 million      NA                  1472% (potential)     USD 43.8 million
(2001)                  (aggregated in                                                 (until end of 2001,
                        2001)                                                          at 6% interest rate)
USD 10.4 million        USD 187 million      USD 130.5 million   1713% (actual)        USD 106 million
(2006)                  (estimated aggregate (verified aggregate                       (until end of 2006 at
                        in 2006)             in 2006)                                  6% interest rate)




                                                     - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/09/1998               4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            PROJECT MANAGER (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (2)


 Supervision

              06/02/1999               3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            PROJECT MANAGER (1);
                                            PROJECT ACCOUNTING (1)
              06/02/1999               2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S              HS
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
              06/02/1999               4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S              HS
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT S (1);
                                            ASSISTANT (1)
              03/09/2001               2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S              HS
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
              03/09/2001               2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S              HS
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
              03/05/2002               3    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS              S
                                            STRATEGIC PLANNING (1);
                                            OPERATIONS (1)
              10/21/2002               2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            OPERATIONS (1)
              05/16/2003               4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            OPERATIONS (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1)
              10/24/2003               4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            OPERATIONS (1); PS/IMPACT
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            IT/E-GOV'T CONSULTANT (1)
              05/10/2004               5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            OPERATIONS (1); PS/IMPACT
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            IT/E-GOV'T CONSULTANT (1)
              12/09/2004               4    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                            OPERATIONS (1); PS/IMPACT
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            IT/E-GOV'T CONSULTANT (1)
              07/08/2005               4    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                            OPERATIONS (1); PS/IMPACT



                                             - 40 -

                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            IT/E-GOV'T CONSULTANT (1)



 ICR
               03/16/2006             5     TASK MANAGER (1);                HS    HS
                                            OPERATIONS (1);
                                            PS/IMPACT
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            IT/E-GOV'T
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            LEGAL CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    16                          34.6
  Supervision                              80                       377.53
  ICR                                  11.19                           24.5
  Total                                112.3                        447.13




                                            - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Fiscal
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank (1999), Project Appraisal Document, Social and Fiscal National Identification       System
Program, Report No.19110-AR, March 31, 1999, Washington D.C.

World Bank(2000), Implementation Completion Report for the Argentina National Pension Administration
Technical Project, Report No.34639-AR, December 22, 2005, Washington DC

Project Files (1999-2006), Supervision Missions, Aide Memoires, PRSs, ISRs and periodic progress
reports/assessments - Social and Fiscal National Identification System Program, Washington D.C.

World Bank (1999), Loan Agreement Social and Fiscal National Identification System Program,
Washington D.C.

World Bank (1998) Project Appraisal Document Argentina - State Modernization Project, Washington
D.C.

Presidencia de la Nacion Aregntina (various years) Informe al Banco Mundial para la Evaluacion
Semestral (SINTyS)




                                                   - 44 -

- 45 -

