Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17401
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SIXTH (FAMILY WELFARE TRAINING AND SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT)
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2057-IN; LOAN 3108 - IN)
February 3, 1998
Health, Nutrition & Population Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1997)
Currency Unit       =             Rupee
Rupee 35.87         =             US$1.00
Rupee 1.0                         US$0.02787
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)         =             3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer         =             0.62
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANM          Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
ARI          Acute Respiratory Infection
CSSM         Child Survival and Safe Motherhood
CHC          Community Health Center
DWCRA        Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas
DTT          District Training Teams
EOC          Essential Obstetric Care
FRU          First Referral Unit
FWP          Family Welfare Programme
GOI          Government of India
HRD          Human Resources Development
IEC          Information, Education and Communications
ISM          Indian Systems of Medicine
IPP          India Population Project
MIS          Management Information System
MOHFW        Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NIHFW        National Institute of Health and Family Welfare
PMIS         Personnel Management Information Systems
RITES        Railway Institute for Telecommunication and Signaling
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SIHFW        State Institute of Health and Family Welfare
TBA          Traditional Birth Attendant
TOT          Training of Trainers
WHO          World Health Organization
Vice President        Mieko Nishimizu.
Country Director      Edwin Lim
Sector Manager        Richard Skolnik
Task Manager          Indra Pathmanathan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA: SIXTH (FAMILY WELFARE TRAINING AND SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT) POPULATION PROJECT (CR 2057-IN; LOAN 3108 - IN)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..................................................i
Evaluation Summary ................................................. iii
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement and Evaluation of Objectives                  .2
B.  Achievement of Objectives                          .4
C.    Project Costs and Implementation Timetable               .9
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                    .9
E.  Project Sustainability .11
F.  Borrower Performance .11
G. Bank Performance .12
H. Assessment of Outcome .13
I. Key Lessons Leamt .13
Table 1. Selected Project Achievements and FWP Indicators ...............................7
Table 2. Lessons Leamt ........................................... 16
PART II: Statistical Information
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments .17
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans/Credits .19
Table 3.  Project Timetable .21
Table 4.      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .21
Table SA.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Training Centers) .  22
Table 5B.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Training Coverage) . 23
Table 5C.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Upgrading Facilities) . 25
Table 6A.     Key Indicators for Project Operation (Training Quality & Impact) 26
Table 6B.     Key Indicators for Project Operation (Change in Staff Performance). 26
Table 6C      Key Indicators for Project Operation: (Impact of Upgraded Service). 27
Table 6D.     Key Indicators for Project Operation: (Utilization of Services) . 27
Table 6E.     Key Indicators for Project Operation (Demand Generation)        28
Table 6F.     Key Indicators for Project Operation (Impact Indicators) .28
Table 7.      Studies Included in the Project .29
Table 8.   Project Costs by Component .32
Table 9.   Status of Legal Covenants .33
Table 10.   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .34
Table 11.   Bank Resources: Missions .34
APPENDICES
Appendix A.  The ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B.  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official d]uties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without.
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SIXTH (FAMILY WELFARE TRAINING AND SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT)
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2057-IN; LOAN 3108 - IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sixth (Family
Welfare Training and Systems Development) Population Project, for which Credit No.
2057-IN in the amount of SDR 87.2 (US$113.3 million equivalent) and Loan No. 3108 in
the amount of US$11.3 million were approved on June 29, 1989 and made effective on
February 23, 1990.
As a result of exchange rate adjustments in 1993, the loan and part of the credit
were canceled reducing the project's cost in US$ from US$124.6 million to US$72.76,
although the Rs. cost increased from Rs. 1997 million to Rs. 2173 million. The original
closing date of March 31, 1997 was extended by two months to May 31. The last
disbursement took place on August 21, 1997 with an amount of US$1.46 million
remaining undisbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Indra Pathmanathan (Task Manager), assisted by
Nirmala Murthy (Consultant). M. Voss and R. Sharma provided technical assistance with
E. Vincent providing office technology assistance. Earlier drafts of the ICR were
reviewed by Susan Stout, Anthony Measham and Frances Plunkett who provided
valuable insights and commnents. Peer reviewers were Maria Macdonald and Edward
Elmendorf, and the ICR was reviewed and cleared by Richard Skolnik, Sector Manager.
Preparation of this ICR began during the June/July 1997 supervision mission.
Consultants R. Bandaranayake, D.K. Srinivasa, and 0. Philips reviewed curricula and
training materials, observed training sessions, interviewed key management and training
officials in each state, and conducted focus group discussions with groups of trainers.
Each state contributed to the ICR by organizing end-line surveys that were conducted in
Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh by Operations Research Group (ORG) and in Andhra
Pradesh by the Centre for Population and Development Studies (CPDS), National
Productivity Council and the Council for Social Development under the Terms of
Reference reviewed by the Bank. The end-line surveys included interviews and
observations of randomly selected samples of 760 staff, 58 training centers and 155 sub-
centers as well as interviews of 8,200 eligible couples and 700 opinion leaders from 339
randomly selected villages from 30 districts in the three project states.
The National Institute of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW) and each state then
prepared its own Completion Report based on data from official records as well as the



ii
end-line surveys. These reports were subsequently compiled into an Executive Report by
NIHFW and is available in the project files. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
organized a workshop held from June 30 to July 2, 1997 to review the draft reports from
the NIHFW and project states.
The draft Implementation Completion Report has been shared with the Borrower
and comments were taken into account in the final version.
The cooperation and assistance of the Government of India (GOI) and the State
Govermments is gratefully acknowledged.



iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SIXTH (FAMILY WELFARE TRAINING AND SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT)
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2057-IN; LOAN 3108 - IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   IDA has assisted India's family planning (later, family welfare) program (FWP)
since the early 1970s through a series of nine India Population Projects (IPPs), the Child
Survival and Safe Motherhood (CSSM) project and the recently approved Reproductive
and Child Health (RCH) prciject. The Sixth Population Project is reviewed within the
context of the progressively evolving strategy of this portfolio (also see Part II, Table 2).
The first five IPPs supported family planning and childhood immunization in backward
districts and urban slums in cities in selected states. The CSSM project (1992-1997),
implemented nationwide simultaneously with the sixth and seventh IPPs, broadened the
FWP from a near exclusive focus on fertility reduction to include child health, nutrition
and maternal health. The RCH project is supporting nationwide implementation of
reproductive health policy reform.
2.    Rapid expansion of the FWP during the 1980s had eroded service quality. Large
numbers of outreach workers and their supervisors, rapidly trained through training
programs of questionable quality, provided services largely from sub-centers located on
premises which had no basic amenities such as water supply or furniture and poor
communication with higher levels of the service delivery system. The Sixth Population
Project (IPP VI) was the first state-wide project. It was implemented in three backward
states Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, addressed a critical sub-
system-training-and provided valuable experience on addressing state-wide systems in
states with weak institutional capacity. Subsequent projects have utilized this experience
in other states and in addressing other state-wide systems.
Project Objectives
3.    The achievements of this project should be viewed within the larger context of the
evolving Bank-Borrower relationship in the HNP sector. At the time the project was
designed, the Borrower had enormous needs in the Population sector, and fertility and
mortality rates were unacceptably high. But the Bank-Borrower relationship was as yet
relatively imnmature: there was limited appreciation and receptivity to external advice and
IDA per capita lending was small compared to GOI's own expenditure in the sector.



iv
There was a need to build trust and credibility, and demonstrate that Bank advice might
in fact be more valuable than financial support. The Bank's dialogue with the Borrower
had stalled for a few years. The policy dialogue that accompanied this project helped
initiate a process which eventually led to the development of the longer term shared
vision and strategy that now underpins Bank support for the FWP in India.
4.    Anecdotal evidence suggests that this project made significant contributions to
building the strong relationship that now exists between the Bank and the Borrower,
particularly in the population sector. However, it was only one vehicle within a larger
framework of other parallel or related investments not only in population but also in
nutrition, health and education, and it is difficult to assess particular contribution of this
particular project to the process.
5.    The project's overall objective was to improve quality and access to family
welfare services by improving state-wide training systems and the environment in which
the trained worker would operate. The project's specific objectives were to (a) improve
the efficiency of the human resources development (HRD) and training systems; (b)
expand training capacity to meet staffing requirements; (c) improve quality of training;
and (d) enhance the service delivery system in which the trained worker would operate.
6.    These objectives were to be achieved by the establishment of capacity for regular
training through a network of state, divisional/regional, and district level training
institutions, upgrading trainer skills, revising and upgrading training curricula and
teaching methods, upgrading the quality of all categories of Family Welfare workers
through training, and establishing capacity for strategic planning and management of
human resources for FWP in project states. Enhancement of service delivery was to be
achieved through constructing and equipping sub-centers and refurbishing primary health
centers. The female multi-purpose worker would reside in the sub-center and provide
services that would be easily accessible to clusters of five villages (5,000 population).
The primary health centers (30,000 population) would be provided residential
accommodation for staff as well as equipment, furniture and rehabilitation of vehicles.
7.    The state-wide approach was well conceived and the project addressed two issues
that are central to the Bank's Health Nutrition and Population (HNP) strategy, namely
improving health and fertility outcomes for the poor and improving efficiency of health
care services. Considering the size of the states, their weak institutional capacity and the
relative lack of experience in strengthening state-wide systems, the overall objective of
addressing one critical system, namely, the training system was appropriate, although
some aspects of the scope of the project were over-ambitious.
8.    Two of the specific objectives were realistic, while one was over-ambitious and
the other was not appropriate. Rationalization and improvement of quality for the in-
service training system and improving the workers' environment were relevant and
feasible. Establishment of capacity for improving strategic planning, monitoring and
management of human resources was over-ambitious and ahead of its time in the project



v
states that were recognized to have poor institutional capacity. Expansion of training
capacity was defined in the project components as expansion of capacity for basic
training and increased involvement of practitioners of Indian Systems of Medicine (ISM).
This objective was inappropriate because the Family Welfare system was not able to
absorb any more workers, and there was no consensus on greater involvement of ISM
practitioners. Also it was unwise to attempt establishment of large state level Institutes of
Health and Family Welfare in each of these relatively weak states.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.    The project's overall objectives were substantially achieved. Despite a slow start
up and relatively weak performance during the early years, significant improvement
during the second half resulted in a credible success story. The decline of the Rs. against
the US$ and SDR led to cancellation of $52 million from the original credit (SDR87.2
million) and loan ($11.3 million) although the Rs. cost of the project was increased from
Rs. 1.99 billion to Rs. 2.17 billion. The adjusted credit of $72.76 million was 97%
disbursed.
10.   Training and HRD system. Training capacity has been established with a credible
network of training institutions which have demonstrable capacity to upgrade curricula
and training materials in the project states. More than 80% of workers were trained under
the project and end-line surveys showed significant improvement from baseline levels of
knowledge in key maternal and child health and contraceptive issues. Worker morale
increased with the improvement of working environment, as did supervision and access
to services. However, there has been little improvement in capacity to monitor health
personnel and their performance and utilize such information to improve training.
Review and upgrading of basic training curricula and involvement of ISM practitioners
has been minimal. End-line surveys of beneficiaries showed significant improvement
over baseline levels for service coverage and utilization rates. Fertility and infant
mortality declined in all three states during the project's life, although it is not possible to
estimate how much of such decline could be attributed to the project.
11.   Physical objectives. The physical objectives of the project were not only achieved
but surpassed. Compared to the SAR target of 113, a total of 140 training centers were
constructed or upgraded. Similarly, 1700 sub-centers were constructed compared to the
planned 1500. End-line surveys of training facilities, sub-centers and primary health
centers showed more than 98% completed, equipped and utilized facilities. The one
exception was that only 38% (in Uttar Pradesh), 53% (Madhya Pradesh) and 65%
(Andhra Pradesh) of female multi-purpose workers were resident in sub-centers, although
they were providing services at the sub-centers. Lack of safety at night due to siting of
sub-centers outside village boundaries, and lack of water supply contributed to low
occupancy rates.



vi
Key Lessons Learned
12.   The FWP is a 100% centrally financed program that is largely dependent on state
implementation capacity for its development effectiveness. This project entitled "Family
Welfare Training and Systems Development" was the first to aim at strengthening state-
side implementation systems in three "backward" states and provided several lessons for
project design in states with weak institutional and financial capacity.
13.   Strengthening institutional capacity in the social sector requires a medium term
horizon. However, where institutional capacity is weak, limited managerial capacity
results in short planning horizons and fluctuating commitment to implementation
effectiveness. Therefore, Bank support would be more effective if designed as notional
commitment to sustained medium term support, with an explicitly articulated strategy for
incremental institutional strengthening, implemented through successive, short duration
projects with benchmarked performance-based financing of subsequent projects. The
recently approved Adaptable Program Loans would be suitable for this purpose.
14.   Project experience demonstrated that where institutional capacity is weak,
limiting project scope and focusing on critical doable interventions is vital. Ambitious
components, particularly of the "software" variety, such as human resource development
tend to be ignored, while expensive "hardware" components (civil works, equipment) are
completed without the software that would make such investments productive and
sustainable.
15.   This project provided several lessons for institutional strengthening. Weak
institutional capacity contributed to slow start up and weak implementation in the early
years of the project, and several measures helped strengthen implementation during the
second half of the project. First, this project vividly illustrates that effective
implementation requires adequacy and continuity of critical project staff. Measures
implemented during the project were only partially and temporarily effective in
addressing the issue. This is a fundamental issue affecting projects throughout the HNP
sector in India. It needs to be addressed at a policy level, on a portfolio-wide basis.
16.   The project also provides evidence on the importance of establishing prior to
Negotiations, effective mechanisms for timely funds flow and procurement actions, and
assurance of land acquisition in suitable sites. This lesson is now being applied in the
HNP sector - and an illustration is the recently approved RCH project which incorporated
these requirements.
17.   The project showed that even the weakest states did have the capacity to improve
implementation when faced with the threat of losing funds. Firm signals from the central
MOHFW that weak implementation progress would result in transfer of funds to stronger
performers resulted in remarkable improvements. The effectiveness of measures
implemented in this project showed that while stronger monitoring and managerial
support from the central MOHFW to weak states was essential, it was not sufficient -



vii
political will to provide strong financial incentives for improvement were critical for
change in institutional behavior.
18.   This project provided valuable experience on issues that needed to be addressed to
improve technical quality in civil works and training. For quality improvement in
scattered small civil works, standardized model drawings with technical specifications
and adequate provision for supervision would be critical. For training, it is important to
made adequate provision for upgrading worker proficiency in all domains that would be
required for high quality service provision. Thus, for example, for upgrading competency
in practical clinical skills, linkage of training schools with hospitals that have adequate
patient loan and competent clinical trainers would be essential. These measures were
developed during the later years of the project and have subsequently become important
features in the RCH project.
19.   This project provides two implementation phase lessons. First, even when
institutional capacity is weak, individual prime movers with innovative capacity could
emerge. In older projects, liberal interpretation of the provisions of the project, and in
new projects, flexibility within the project design would encourage and support
opportunistic innovation supportive of project goals. Positive feedback from Bank
missions to such individuals is an important motivating element. For example, in this
project, in one cash strapped state where lack of funds severely limited contact between
state level managers and district and field staff, an innovative State FW Secretary
improved staff morale by utilizing opportunities provided by project financed training
courses to have dialogue and obtain feedback from staff. In another state, "training" was
interpreted liberally to include community mobilization activities. Second, regular
opportunities for sharing positive experiences and best practices between states provide
strong incentives for healthy competition as well as for learning from each other. States
with weak institutional capacity and adverse social contexts are more eager to learn from
other states with similar conditions than from states that have more favorable institutional
and social conditions. Lessons learnt from this project are being utilized in subsequent
Bank financed projects in Health and Family Welfare in India.
Project Outcome
20.   The project outcome is rated "satisfactory". The project has established good
training capacity (see paragraphs 15-18 of the main text) and a "training culture" in states
where training was previously regarded a low priority activity. The outreach workers and
the services they provide have been upgraded as demonstrated by improved knowledge
and performance levels of workers and improved utilization and coverage (see table 1 and
paragraphs 19-20). In addition, in two states the project has complemented the
investments made in the recently closed Child Survival and Safe Motherhood project for
strengthening of referral systems for safe motherhood. These provide strong foundations
on which the recently approved Reproductive and Child Health Project and further
program development would be able to build.






1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SIXTH (FAMILY WELFARE TRAINING AND SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT)
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2057-IN)
PART I:    Project Implementation Assessment
1.   IDA has assisted India's family planning (later, family welfare) program (FWP)
since the early 1970's through a series of India Population Projects (IPPs). The first four
IPPs supported strengthening of service delivery outlets and field workers in backward
districts and the fifth supported urban health and family welfare services for slum
populations of the two largest metropolitan areas, Chenai (Madras) and Mumbai
(Bombay). In the late 1980's, India's family welfare program faced two fundatnental
challenges. First, despite a wide network of outreach services there was low acceptance
of these services amnong younger and lower parity women. Second, family welfare
workers did not have the orientation and skills required to address the health needs of
these women. There had been a rapid expansion of outreach services during the previous
decade, and most FW workers had no exposure to training beyond their basic pre-service
training. In most states there was no system for organized in-service training to improve
quality of services.
2.    Recognizing the limitations of the earlier district-specific focus, the Sixth
Population Project (IPP VI) was the first project directed at strengthening a state-wide
system within Family Welfare. It aimed at establishing state-wide systems for training
and human resource development (HRD) and institutionalizing training in three backward
states, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh so as to improve the skills of
field staff in identifying and responding to the family planning as well as maternal and
child health needs of communities and clients.
3.    The subsequent four IDA investments replicated and expanded this approach of
strengthening state-wide systems in a further eight states, addressing not only training,
but also IEC and management, and urban slums in a further four large cities. The
nationwide Child Survival and Safe Motherhood (CSSM) project carried the systems-
wide approach to its next step by strengthening the maternal and child health components
of the FWP nationwide. Building on these investments, the recently approved
Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) project aims at supporting reorientation of
management of the nationwide FWP to improve its perfornance by removing over-
emphasis on numerical contraceptive targets, improving resource utilization and
increasing program impact by providing more client-oriented and better quality services.



2
4.    The achievements of this project should be viewed within the larger context of the
evolving Bank-Borrower relationship in the HNP sector. At the time the project was
designed, the Borrower had enormous needs in the Population sector, and fertility and
mortality rates were unacceptably high. But the Bank-Borrower relationship was as yet
relatively immature: there was limited appreciation and receptivity to external advice and
IDA per capita lending was small compared to GOI's own expenditure in the sector.
There was a need to build trust and credibility, and demonstrate that Bank advice was in
fact more valuable than financial support. The Bank's dialogue with Borrower had
stalled for a few years. The policy dialogue that accompanied this project helped initiate
a process which eventually led to the development of the longer term shared vision and
strategy that now underpins the FWP in India.
5.    Anecdotal evidence suggests that this project made significant contributions to
building the strong relationship that now exists between the Bank and the Borrower,
particularly in the population sector. However, it was only one vehicle within a larger
framework of other parallel or related investments not only in population but also in
nutrition, health and education, and it is difficult to assess particular contribution of this
particular project to the process.
A.   Statement and Evaluation of Project objectives
6.    Within the overall framework of the FWP, the stated objectives of the project
were to assist the project states of Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh to:
(a) improve the efficiency of the human resources development and training systems; (b)
expand training capacity to meet staffing requirements; (c) improve quality of training;
and (d) enhance the service delivery system in which the trained worker would operate.
7.    All the project objectives were relevant. In particular, the third and fourth
objectives of improving training quality and enhancing the service delivery system were
realistic, appropriate and served as extremely good guides for project implementation and
assessment of impact. However, given the relatively backward situation in the project
states, greater focus and clarity of the first two objectives would have been desirable. The
first objective, to "improve the efficiency of the human resources development (HRD) and
training system" involved putting in place ten identified elements of a "training
program". Six of the elements related to rationalizing the training infrastructure,
upgrading and modernizing the planning, conduct and evaluation of training so managers
and workers alike would view training as a desirable and useful intervention. Prior to the
project, most Family Welfare workers had never experienced in-service training, and
training was generally poorly regarded, considered as "punishment" and in-service
training courses had poor response rates. Therefore, these elements were appropriate and
were valued by the Borrower. However, the other four elements related to personnel
policies such as promotion, recruitment and performance appraisal. The project was not
the suitable vehicle for such elements. Personnel policies in Family Welfare are
governed by conditions in the larger health system and in the civil service which were



3
beyond the project scope, and in which there were no concurrent reform measures during
the project's life (see paragraphs 14 and 15).
8.    The second objective which aimed to "expand training capacity to meet service
needs" was to be achieved by constructing and rehabilitating pre-service (basic) training
institutions for outreach workers and training practitioners of Indian Systems of Medicine
(ISM) in health promotional and clinical skills. The focus of this objective was not
entirely relevant because: (a) no immediate expansion of the Family Welfare services
was feasible, and basic training was winding down since the requisite numbers of female
workers had been produced; and (b) the future of male multipurpose workers as well as
the potential role of practitioners of Indian Systems of Medicine (ISM) were in debate.
Therefore, it would have been more appropriate to have focused this objective on
improving the quality rather than expanding capacity of pre-service training.
9.    In all three states, key officials perceived the project objectives to be appropriate
and filling a very important gap in the FW programs. At the same time the objectives
were viewed as demanding and strenuous in terms of the expected achievement levels
stated in the SAR. This strain was reported more in Uttar Pradesh which was less tuned
to working in a time-bound manner than in Andhra Pradesh which completed many of the
project tasks ahead of time. Madhya Pradesh officials described this project as
demanding and ambitious, but "one of the best things that happened in the health sector
in Madhya Pradesh."
10.   Project scope. The broad scope of the project objectives provided opportunities
for imaginative and effective use of project funds for highly relevant and beneficial
purposes that were not explicitly articulated in the SAR. First, enterprising State
Secretaries of Health and Family Welfare in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh utilized
the project resources to introduce modem management styles to motivate and enthuse
district managers and grassroots workers. In these geographically large project states
where cash-strapped situations restricted travel, top level managers seldom had contact
with district or field staff. The project enabled these high level officers to use the regular
in-service training courses financed by the project as vehicles for dialogue with their staff
and for obtaining feed-back. This served to improve management and staff morale.
11.   Second, the project was able to respond to newer priorities. It enhanced
investments made in the parallel Child Survival and Safe Motherhood (CSSM) program
by renovating and upgrading community hospitals that were being equipped under CSSM
to serve as first referral units, and revamping in-service training to fall in line with the
developments under the CSSM Program. Although CSSM itself was not able to
demonstrate improvement in referral systems, the investments made under CSSM and
IPP-6 in the project states have laid a solid foundation for strengthening referral services
for safe motherhood under the recently approved Reproductive and Child Health Project.
Third, although project objectives and scope appear to be wholly oriented towards
strengthening a supply-side system, in practice, considerable efforts were devoted to
raising community awareness of the broadened scope of services being offered by the



4
FWP, and the benefits such services would bring to communities. Such efforts were
accommodated under the rubric of "training of village level functionaries" who were in
fact grassroots level opinion leaders (see also paragraph 23).
B.   Achievement of project objectives
12.   Measurement of achievements. The project was aimed essentially at capacity
building. A large number of indicators were specified in the Appraisal Report, but most
of them were measures of input and process; few measureable outcomes were specified,
and none was agreed between the Bank and Borrower. Therefore the assessments used in
this ICR are based on the agreed input and process indicators as well as some outcome
indicators for which comparable data was available from baseline and endline surveys.
13.   Achievement. The project substantially achieved its institutional development
and physical objectives, and established the foundation for implementation of sectoral
policy change which is envisaged as the next phase of development in the project states.
India's Family Welfare Program: Toward a Reproductive and Child Health Approach,
June 1995 (Report No. 14644-IN) and the Project Appraisal Document of the
Reproductive and Child Health Project, April 1997 (Report No. 16393-IN) describe the
current strategy for reproductive health reform and the role of this project in the evolving
process.
14.   Establishment of training system. The objective of "improving the efficiency of
the human resources development and training system" was to be achieved by (a)
improving the managerial aspects of the training and human resources system; and (b)
rationalizing the training system. This objective was partially achieved. The project
target of "rationalizing the training system" by establishing 113 in-service training
institutions at state, regional/divisional and district levels was surpassed, and a total of
140 viable training facilities were established (see Table 5A). The SAR numerical targets
and schedules for staffing of these training institutions were over-ambitious. The target
numbers were revised downwards after the mid-term review, and 115% of the critical
staff were appointed although most appointments were overly delayed. However, the
envisaged reform of service structure to establish a separate cadre of trainers was not
achieved. Therefore, movement of staff between training and service delivery positions
will continue to erode the proportion of experienced and trained trainers in training
institutions. This would hamper future efforts to improve training quality.
15.   The capacity for systematic in-service training has been established in all three
states. There was high achievement in the various categories and numbers of staff
trained, and training courses had a total of 321,349 attendees, exceeding by 4% the SAR
targets of 309,080. End-line sample surveys of staff confirmed that all three states had
developed the capacity to achieve good training coverage for their FW workers. The
percentages for various categories who attended training under the project ranged
between 51% and 91% in Andhra Pradesh, 78% and 91% in Madhya Pradesh, and 60%
and 89% in Uttar Pradesh (see Table SB). However, capacity for monitoring quality of



5
training is still in early stages of development. Although most training centers evaluated
their training through periodic pre- and post-course tests, these mainly focused on trainee
perceptions. There is as yet no system in each state to monitor training quality in
different centers and take appropriate remedial measures. The project also aimed to
establish computerized personnel management information systems (PMIS) and capacity
for strategic planning for human resource development (HRD).
16.   The PMIS is in a very rudimentary stage of development in all three states; and
none of the states has developed capacity for strategic planning for health human resource
needs and aligning personnel management and training to such needs as was envisaged in
the SAR. In retrospect, considering the relatively backward stage of management
capacity in these states, these concepts were ahead of their time. In Andhra Pradesh, the
World Bank financed Andhra Pradesh Health Systems project approved in 1994 is
supporting the development of this capacity, and linkages are being forged with the
foundations laid by IPP VI.
17.   Training of trainers (TOT), curriculum and materials development.
Considering that almost all trainers in the project states had no pedagogic background at
the start of the project, and training was considered a low prestige activity, a good
beginning has been made in improving trainer skills. Very high proportions of trainers in
all three states have been exposed to short introductory courses in training methodology,
mostly at the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW). A total of 1,239
trainers attended TOT courses compared to a planned target of 663. Some trainers also
benefited from fellowships at foreign institutions that helped broaden their perspectives.
Extensive review exercises of in-service training curricula involved large numbers of
trainers, initially in Andhra Pradesh and subsequently in other states and produced
curricula that were much better focused on expected competencies and tasks of workers.
However, pre-service training curricula were reviewed only once, at the beginning of the
project. Training materials based on the revised curricula were developed or adapted by
NIHFW and by the State Institutes of Health and Family Welfare (SIHFW) in all states,
and end-line surveys showed that such materials are widely used and much appreciated.
18.   Training quality. Considerable progress has been made in improving quality -
interviews of staff and observation of training courses showed there is much better
orientation towards competency-based training and more effective, participatory teaching
methods. Attendance at training courses was good, and end-line surveys of staff reported
high levels of satisfaction with the training and good motivation to attend more training.
However, Bank missions noted weakness in training of practical clinical skills and
counseling skills and made several specific recommendations for improvement.
Implementation of these recommendations was patchy, partly because the project design
was deficient in not giving adequate attention to establishing sites for clinical skills
training in which there would be sufficient clinical load to enable hands-on training.
Only Andhra Pradesh has developed an adequate system for clinical skills training, is
assessing post-training practical skills for some categories of workers, and is able to
demonstrate significant improvement. Uttar Pradesh has begun to build linkages between



6
the FW training system and the USAID supported "Innovations in Family Planning
Services" project to strengthen clinical and counseling skills.
19.   Training impact: knowledge of workers. The project had considerable impact
in improving staff competency through training in all three project states (see Table 5).
In Andhra Pradesh outreach workers and supervisors demonstrated significant
improvement of knowledge in a spectrum of critical maternal and child health topics as
well as contraindications and mis-conceptions related to spacing methods of
contraception. For example, comparison of baseline and end line survey findings in
Andhra Pradesh showed that the percent offemale health workers having critical
knowledge on topics related to immunization increased from 30% to 88%, and for
maternal health from 70% to 84%. In Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, end-line
surveys showed that knowledge of multi-purpose workers on critical aspects of maternal
and child health and family planning was over 70% although it was not possible to
compare with the respective base-line surveys because comparable base-line data was not
available in these states. The only item with low knowledge among workers was
contraceptive side effects (39% in AP, 45% in MP, 65% in UP). This aspect will be
getting special attention in the RCH project which aims at improving the technical quality
of RCH services.
20.   Training impact: behavior of workers. End-line surveys showed that access to
front line health staff and some aspects of quality of care provided by them had improved.
For example, in Andhra Pradesh 60% of health supervisors made ten or more
supervisory visits to villages compared to 43% at baseline. The supervisors reported that
workers were more confident about answering questions and clearing doubts of clients,
showed more positive attitudes and greater awareness of duties, and improved in record
keeping. Similarly, among medical officers 47% made at least 8 village visits per month
compared to an earlier 13%, demonstrated significantly better orientation to their
functions as leaders and team supervisors by improving their relationship with and
support for staff, and by using village visits for more effective supervision. (See Table
6A). However, training of traditional birth attendants (TBAs) had less satisfactory
results. While the project exceeded its target of number of TBAs trained (20,344 TBAs
trained compared to 15,000 planned), less than half had received training in critical skills
and only 75% received delivery kits. Consequently, only 30% to 40% of TBAs were
reported to be practicing critical skills related to care during childbirth and pregnancy and
only 20% reported they would advise hospitalization during emergencies. In Madhya
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, some aspects of quality of services provided by outreach
workers improved as illustrated by end-line surveys where, for example, two out of every
three women who became pregnant during the past three years reported abdominal
examinations and dietary advice from the multi-purpose workers.



7
Table 1: Selected Project Achievements and Family Welfare Program indicators
(Project achievements are based on end-line survey reports)
Andhra Pradesh    Madhya Pradesh    Uttar Pradesh
Training centers established and    31                  36               72
% fully functional* in            (100%)              (88%)            (100%)
parenthesis                _                   _
Sub-centers constructed and %       600                350              750
fully functional**                 (65%)              (53%)            (38%)
% Female multi-purpose              84%                86%              89%
workers attended training
(coverage)***
Increase in Female multi-    base-line   end-line    base-line: NA  base-line: NA
purpose workers with critical                        end-line:        end-line:
knowledge:
- maternal health              16%       61%           97%              95%
- child health                60%        86%           73%              68%
- contraceptive side effects  51%        77%           45%              65%
Increase in supervisory field   43% base-line      NA base-line     25% base-line
visits                          60% end-line       39% end-line     29% end-line
Increase in Pre-natal coverage   57% (1991)         10% (1991)       45% (1991)
79% (most recent)   70% (most recent) 49% (most recent)
Increase in infants fully        46% (1991)         36% (1991)       42% (1991)
immunized                     53% (most recent)   76% (most recent) 45% (most recent)
* "Fully functional" status is based on end-line survey reports on completed civil works,
critical staff and equipment in place, and had been conducting training programs.
* * "Fully functional" status is based on end-line survey reports on ANM resident in the
sub-center and providing regular service; in the remaining sub-centers, services of
varying regularity were being provided but the ANM was not resident.
** * Service data source
21.   Upgrading service delivery. In all the project states, this component was
implemented enthusiastically because it responded to felt needs of service providers.
Achievements surpassed levels planned in the SAR (see Table 5C) and end-line surveys
confirmed that facilities, equipment and drugs supplied by the project were largely in
place and greatly appreciated by staff. 1,700 new sub-centers were constructed
(compared to 1,500 planned), and 21,888 furnished and equipped (10,750 planned).
Impact of the improved work environment on staff morale has been significant, and it has
probably contributed to the improved quality of care received by the community (see
"Impact on Community"). The percent of outreach workers, supervisors and even
medical officers resident in or near the villages they serve had improved significantly
thereby improving access for the community. For example, in Andhra Pradesh, health
workers resident in the subcenter or its village increased from 40% to 65% and health
supervisors living in or near PHCs increased from 47% to 77%. Percent of medical
officers living in or near the PHC compound according to the end line surveys were 38%
in Andhra Pradesh, 73% in Madhya Pradesh and 75% in Uttar Pradesh (see Table 6C). In



8
all project states, eligible couples interviewed during end-line surveys were aware of
facilities and service provided.
22.   Another benefit of the improved facilities is that selection of facilities to be
upgraded was coordinated with those facilities identified and equipped under the CSSM
project to serve as first referral units (FRUs) for safe motherhood. It is expected that
hardware improvements put in place by Population VI will provide a firm foundation in
the project states for the rapid up-scaling of quality of care and safe motherhood referral
systems planned under the recently approved Reproductive and Child Health Project.
23.   However, sub-center utilization remains questionable. The rationale for sub-
center construction had been two-fold: first, there was a need for satisfactory premises to
provide services, because earlier rapid expansion of services had resulted in a large
proportion of blocks where outreach workers functioned from temporary unsatisfactory
facilities; and second, it was argued that residential facilities for the female multi-purpose
worker would make them more accessible to the villages they served. The end-line
surveys show that the first objective had been achieved and is much appreciated by staff
as well as clients. However, MPWs had taken up residence in only 38% (Uttar Pradesh)
to 65% (Andhra Pradesh) sub-centers, which, although an improvement on baseline
values, remains below expectations (see Table 6C). The overwhelming reason for non
residence was lack of safety at night. Subcenters have been constructed on land donated
by the village, which is usually land of less value because it is situated outside the village
boundary and has no electricity. This issue remains unresolved though subsequent
projects are making strenuous efforts to ensure appropriate sites for subcenters by making
the local elected Panchayat bodies responsible and encouraging them to involve villagers
in selection and monitoring of subcenters.
24.   Demand generation. All project states invested considerable efforts in "training"
of village level leaders and grassroots opinion leaders such as women's groups, teachers,
PDS (public distribution systems) distributors and selected eligible couples. Such efforts
improved recognition that the FWP was offering services beyond its previous focus on
limiting family size, and increased understanding of health needs and available services
for early childhood and pregnancy. For example, in Andhra Pradesh, the "trained" group
of grassroots opinion leaders, namely DWCRA (Development of Women and Children in
Rural Areas) members demonstrated better awareness of family planning methods, good
breastfeeding practices and ORS (oral rehydration sort) use, less gender bias for sex of
first child and a larger number advocated female age of marriage to be 18 years or higher
(see Table 6E).
25.   Impact on community. The project is a departure from earlier projects that
focused on reducing fertility, increasing contraceptive prevalence and reducing childhood
and maternal mortality. It explicitly focused on strengthening a critical support system,
and avoided creating the imnpression that the project, independent of other critical supply
and demand side contributors would achieve impact at the community level. Significant
improvement was noted in utilization of maternal and child health services. For example,



9
end-line surveys showed that of women who became pregnant during the previous three
years, 62% in Madhya Pradesh and 80% in Uttar Pradesh received pre-natal care from the
MPWs (multi-purpose workers). Women who reported receiving micronutrient
supplementation increased from 13% at baseline to 41 % at endline in Uttar Pradesh, and
30% to 80% in Madhya Pradesh. In Uttar Pradesh the percent of eligible couples who
reported contact with a health worker increased from 22% in the baseline survey to 51%
in the end-line survey, and 31 % of acceptors reported having received a follow-up visit.
In Madhya Pradesh, at the end-line survey, 40% of eligible couples reported contact with
a health worker and 55% of acceptors reported receiving follow up visits. In Andhra
Pradesh, a survey of DWCRA group members indicated that they depend significantly on
public sector services (see Table 6D) and that 85% of the members had noted an
improvement in health and family planning services over the duration of the project.
26.   Although it is not possible to isolate and quantify the specific contribution of the
project, it is worth noting that during the project's life, it appears that significant gains in
fertility reduction and maternal and child health were achieved in the project states (see
Table 6F).
C.   Project costs and implementation timetable
27.   Financial objectives. The financial objectives of the project were substantially
achieved. The original project cost was $124.6 million which was reduced to $72.76
million as a result of exchange rate adjustments in May, 1993. The original Rs. cost
allocated by the GOI in April 1990 at project effectiveness was Rs. 1997.7 million, and
this was subsequently revised upward to Rs. 2172.8 million in January, 1997. In 1990,
the GOI submitted a claim for Rs. 180.47 million which was disbursed against but
subsequently disallowed because it included items that were not eligible for
reimbursement. This remained the subject of dispute for more than eight months, and
was subsequently adjusted against later claims. This explains the unusual disbursement
profile given in Table 4. By the original closing date of March 31, 1997, project
implementation was virtually complete, but the closing date was extended by two months
to May 31, 1997 in order to accommodate a few procurement packages that had been
inadvertently delayed. By project closing $69.99 million or 97% of the revised credit
amount had been disbursed.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
28.   The project had a slow start up and low levels of implementation during the first
three years. Contributory factors included:
* cumbersome state approval procedures;
* delays in financial sanctions;
* frequent (more than ten) transfers of project director in Uttar Pradesh, inadequate
project management staff in Madhya Pradesh, and delays in appointing critical
teaching staff in all three states;



10
* inadequate technical capacity in the initially selected community-oriented
construction agencies in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh;
*  unfamiliarity with Bank procedures regarding procurement, submission of claims and
timely audit in all three states.
29.   Factors contributing to the subsequent recovery and good progress included:
*  personal attention of top management at state, MOHFW and NIHFW levels resulting
in better monitoring and decisive interventions to resolve bottlenecks;
*  appointment of knowledgeable dedicated staff in key positions resulting in improved
project management;
*  state responsiveness to strong technical feedback provided by Bank supervision
missions resulting in improved quality of training and civil works;
*  use of Bank joint review sessions and inter-state visits as opportunities to share
lessons learnt between stronger performers and weaker states;
*  aggressive utilization of mid-term review findings in particular to revise activities and
re-allocate funds in response to perforrnance;
*  flexibility within the state in allocating funds to changing priorities and innovative
activities such as strengthening first referral units for the Child Survival and Safe
Motherhood program in Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, strengthening primary
health centers in Uttar Pradesh, and piloting a tribal health plan in Andhra Pradesh
which was subsequently expanded under the recently approved Reproductive and
Child Health project.
30.   There were some less successful aspects of the project. First, project design did
not make adequate provision for training in practical clinical and counseling skills, hence
the quality of worker performance did not improve as much as desired. Second, project
costs were allocated by state, and until 1995, GOI was very reluctant to reallocate funds
between states. As a result there was little incentive for a weak state such as Uttar
Pradesh to improve. Third, three concepts in the SAR were probably ahead of their time
in these relatively weak project states, did not have borrower ownership and did not get
off the ground: (a) the project states have not developed any capacity for human resource
policy and strategic planning; and (b) no system for monitoring of technical clinical
quality has been established because the concept of Quality Supervision Teams was not
feasible as it was not possible to mobilize the necessary experts. A more participatory
process involving key stakeholders during project design might have been able to identify
more accurately the feasibility and risks attached to various strategies. No
experimentation with block level management in the absence of method specific
contraceptive targets was done because there was no capacity to implement action
research studies although the blocks were nominally "released from the targets". Further,
project managers gave low priority to monitoring and following up studies that were
initiated. As a result, information on study results and reports was inadequate (see Table
7) and studies had limited impact on project implementation.



11
31.   Fourth, trainer skills were not upgraded as much as would have been desirable
because of reluctance of states to utilize expertise from the NGO sector and other
established institutions.
32.   Fifth, the SIHFWs, which are newly established large state level institutions, and
expected to perform sophisticated functions of providing leadership for the FW training
system, are still in their infancy. They would probably require continued support for a
further ten years before they could be considered stable, sustainable institutions able to
perform the full range of expected functions. Given the competing priorities at state
level, particularly in the more resource strapped states, the short- and medium-term
viability of these institutions is fragile. Finally, the concept of mobile district training
teams (DTTs) to provide on the job training and supervision should have been tested
before state-wide implementation. In practice, the originally envisaged concept of DTTs
has not taken root, and in Andhra Pradesh they are used for demand generation activities
while Uttar Pradesh decided to limit them to the original five districts.
E.    Project Sustainability
33.   The medium term potential for sustainability of this project is good. First,
improvement in perception and ethos related to the role of training within the family
welfare system is well established as evidenced by the financial support for training
provided by the center and state governments and the good attendance rates at courses.
Second, the sustainability of the training institutions established under the project is
demonstrated by the willingness of government to finance the operational costs of the
institutions, although the maintenance of staffing in the State Institutes needs continued
monitoring. Third, there has been more than adequate provision of funds for in-service
training for the next five year period in the Reproductive and Child Health Program.
These funds have been provided not only by several externally aided projects but more
importantly from the budgets of the central government and, in the case of Andhra
Pradesh, topped up by the state government. Therefore the training institutions can be
expected to continue to provide regular in-service training in support of the FWP's efforts
to improve quality of services.
F.    Borrower Performance
34.   Recognizing that the project was implemented in three states that had
acknowledgedly weak management capacity, the Borrower performance, though initially
weak, ended on a strong and very creditable note. Problems and performance are
described in paragraphs 27-28. In general, Andhra Pradesh could be considered a good
performer, although its goods procurement performance was weak until late in the
project. Madhya Pradesh initially had serious problems in achieving adequate quality for
the physical objectives, but improved significantly after strenuous interventions by Bank
missions that resulted in improvement in rural construction quality and appointment of a
procurement support agent. Uttar Pradesh was weak in both expenditure and
implementation performance until the Bank in March 1995, issued a threat to suspend



12
disbursements. Uttar Pradesh avoided suspension by fulfilling the required
implementation benchmarks.
35.   However, project implementation in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh picked up
remarkably only after GOI, in an effort to improve disbursement profiles, reallocated a
small proportion of the funds from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh to Andhra Pradesh
in February 1996, and instituted a regular system of performance review and linked
further reallocation of funds to actual performance. Both states responded promptly to
this action by assigning strong project management staff, giving high level attention to
implementation progress, resolving administrative bottlenecks, and demonstrating a
dramatic increase in disbursements and improvement in project monitoring. In turn, GOI
restored some of the reallocated funds. In summary, the experience established a
precedent for rewarding performance and demonstrated the benefits of proactive
monitoring and corrective actions by the center.
36.   Performance of the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare as a technical
support agency was patchy - early planning inputs were good particularly in
conceptualizing the State Institutes; its performance in providing technical leadership and
supervision to states was inadequate during the first four years but improved considerably
during the last two years of project implementation. MOHFW was good at monitoring
project expenditure, but became effective in supervising and resolving bottlenecks only
during late stages of the project. In all states, efforts to improve project quality were
hampered by administrative delays in approving and implementing fellowships and study
tours, evaluative studies and consultant inputs.
G.   Bank Performance
37.   During project preparation, Bank staff assisted the project states to articulate a
clear strategy to rationalize the in-service training system, which subsequently served as a
model for a further eight states in the Seventh and Ninth Population projects. However,
the Bank had significant field presence in the form of a full time officer in the New Delhi
Office responsible for population projects, and the Bank's preparation and appraisal did
not take sufficient cognizance of weak institutional capacity in the project states; failed to
recognize low Borrower commitment to some proposed strategies; and was not
sufficiently stringent in some technical aspects of training. Supervision missions were in
general, sufficiently frequent. Due to pressure on staff time, there was only one mission
each during FY92 and FY95. However, through the full time officer in the Bank's New
Delhi office responsible for Population projects, strong communications were maintained
between the Bank and the Borrower during these periods. Missions established good
rapport with project states and provided strong technical input including mobilization of
inputs from the World Health Organization, which had not been envisaged during project
preparation.
38.   The mid-term review effectively focused attention on the need to improve quality,
both in training and civil works. Two portfolio-wide initiatives instituted by Bank



13
management during the second half of the project greatly augmented supervision
effectiveness: (a) the system of regular feedback from the Bank to the Secretary, Family
Welfare in GOI on disbursement performance brought high level Borrower attention to
implementation bottlenecks; and (b) the problem project review process by the
Departmental Management Team together with the issue of the threat to suspend the
weak performing Uttar Pradesh was timely and effective in focusing attention on
achieving critical implementation benchmarks.
H.   Assessment of Outcome
39.   Based on the success in achieving its key objectives (paragraphs 14 - 24), the
project is rated "satisfactory". It is difficult to estimate the impact of training per se on
service quality and impact. Other critical influencing factors include availability of drugs
and contraceptives, funds and vehicles for outreach work and supervision, and program
constraints such as the over-arching concern for meeting contraceptive targets. However,
in all three states, there was improvement in staff knowledge and performance, client
satisfaction with services, health knowledge and a significant utilization of services. The
rating is also warranted because the training systems that have been established are
expected to provide a sound foundation for the next phase in development of the FWP.
In accordance with the recommendations of the International Conference on Population
and Development, Cairo, 1994, FWP is moving towards a stronger focus on meeting
client needs and improving service quality for which training will have a critical role
(also see paragraph 13).
40.   Project staff. Inadequacy and frequent changes of critical staff at project
management and technical leadership levels, resulting in weak implementation capacity
and continuous hemorrhage of expertise was a key factor not only in this project but also
in other HNP project in India. This issue needs to be addressed at a policy level on a
portfolio-wide basis.
41.   Poverty reduction and gender issues (see Part II, Table 1) are implicit in the nature
and scope of the project. The project is assessed as having partially achieved these
objectives because it succeeded in improving the quality of workers providing rural
outreach services for poor women and children, but did not address other aspects of care
such as supplies, referral systems, and gender sensitivity in provision of clinical services.
However, some innovative approaches such as "orientation camps" for newly married
couples in Andhra Pradesh effectively brought into focus the role of males.
I.    Key Lessons Learnt
42.   The project provides key lessons pertaining to social sector projects in those
Indian states that have weak management capacity (see Table 2).
43.   Project staff. Inadequacy and frequent changes of critical staff at project
management and technical leadership levels, resulting in weak implementation capacity



14
and continuous hemorrhage of expertise was a key factor not only in this project but also
in other HNP project in India. This issue needs to be addressed at a policy level on a
portfolio-wide basis.
44.   Slow start up. In states with weak institutional and financial capacity, project
design should require as legal covenants: (a) effective mechanisms for timely funds flow
and procurement actions; (b) evidence of land acquisition at least for year one civil
works; and (c) assurance of adequacy and continuity of critical project management staff.
State level "Project Empowered Committees" even with highest level representation from
State Finance departments are not effective in ensuring funds flow.
45.   Improving implementation. Since the FWP is 100% centrally financed, the
central MOHFW should take greater responsibility for strengthening managerial and
technical capacity in weaker states. This could be done by: (a) requiring such states to
accept appointment of appropriate consultants in consultation with MOHFW; (b)
providing implementation incentives through performance based financing; (c) closer
performance monitoring by MOHFW and prompt feedback from sufficiently high levels
of MOHFW to the state; (d) early remedial signals such as reallocation of funds from
weak performers to those with stronger performance; and (e) exchange of learning
experiences between states through joint workshops and inter-state visits.
46.   Improving technical quality. Quality of civil works in large numbers of small
buildings in scattered rural locations would be improved by: (a) use of standardized
model drawings with adequate attention to functional requirements, (b) adequate
provision for on-site supervision, and (c) improved quality assessment procedures during
handing over completed buildings. Quality of training would be improved by: (a)
adequate provision for training in practical clinical skills and counseling skills associated
with some form of skill-proficiency certification, (b) greater use of interactive and self-
learning methods, and (c) provision for monitoring quality of training. Further, large
investments on in-service training should be accompanied by parallel attention to
improving pre-service training so that new entrants into the work force would bring
higher skills with them and require only periodic updating of knowledge and skills.
47.   Implementation incentives. Although states with weak institutional capacity
require sustained support, they also have a very short planning horizon. There is a
tendency to deploy their few competent managerial staff to activities perceived as high
priority. When given 'traditional' seven year investment projects, states tend to give low
priority to implementation during early years with the perception that they can "catch up"
later by assigning stronger managers to the project during later years. Changing the
incentives through shorter cycles of performance-based financing would be effective.
More recent projects have five years implementation periods and the recently approved
Reproductive and Child Health project has introduced performance-based financing. (See
Project Appraisal Document No. 16393-IN). New lending instruments such as Adaptable
Program Lending provide suitable vehicles for implementing this approach in future.



15
48.   Flexibility and innovation. The detailed implementation planning (a "blue
print" approach) required in Bank's documentation provide positive as well as negative
signals. States with weak planning capacity benefit from the strong guidance provided by
the details. However, staff of both Bank and Borrower need to understand the value of
flexibility, and value the ability to be opportunistic in utilizing project funds for optimum
benefit during changing contextual situations. Bank management could facilitate such
behavior by integrating appropriate signals within Bank documentation.
49.   Sustainability. It is unrealistic to expect weaker states to achieve financial and
technical sustainability by the end of the project cycle. Since the FWP is a centrally
financed program, sustainability of the training institutions and training programs
established under this project is being ensured by the central government for the medium
term (8 year) future. For the longer term, the central government and states would need
to agree on a program to develop sustainability in all states.
50.   Focused interventions, limited scope. Project experience demonstrated that
where institutional capacity is weak, limiting project scope and focusing on critical
doable interventions is vital. Ambitious components, particularly of the "software"
variety, such as human resource development tend to be ignored, while expensive
"hardware" components (civil works, equipment) are completed without the software that
would make such investments productive and sustainable.
51.   Political will. This project provides vivid illustration of the crucial importance of
political will in institutional strengthening. The decision by the central government to
send signals by moving funds (albeit, very small amounts) out of states that were not
responding to recommendations on how to strengthen implementation was the single
most effective measure in improving implementation. MOHFW is now mainstreaming
this strategy for the entire FWP.



16
Table 2: Lessons learnt
1ssMeNsZ                  --;M   -4E '&Le'ss' ^1-ns. F    . . .l.ar.t....... . ..... . . .. . ... . .. .. .. .... .. .
Slow start up and weak          Prior to Negotiations, ensure establishment of effective mechanisms for
implementation                  *   timely funds flow
*   timely procurement actions
*   evidence of suitable land acquisition
Weak implementation capacity -  *   Develop medium term strategy for incremental institutional strengthening.
Bank strategy                    *   Implement successive short cycle projects with achievable benchmarks.
* Introduce performance-based financing for subsequent projects linked to
achievement of benchmarks in previous project.
Weak institutional capacity -   Ensure that central MOHFW takes stronger responsibility for institutional
Borrower strategy               strengthening through:
*   appropriate managerial and technical support for the state
*   closer monitoring
*   early signals that weak implementation would result in transfer of funds to
better performing states
Inadequate technical quality    In civil works that are small and scattered, ensure:
*   standardized model designs
*   provision for frequent on-site monitoring
In training, analyze specific deficiencies and provide for:
*   adequate quality technical support
*   appropriate training sites particularly for practical clinical skills that require
adequate patient loads
Flexibility and innovation       *   Encourage flexibility in project design and in interpretation of project
provisions to support opportunistic innovation.
*   Provide positive feedback to innovative prime movers during project
implementation.
Timely learningfrom             *   Motivation for learning is higher when best practice examples are derived
experience                           from situations of similar institutional and social difficulties.
*   Mechanisms for regular sharing of lessons between project states provide
incentives for healthy competition as well as for incremental learning.
Weak management and             *   Project specific actions are ineffective.
technical capacity and          *   Portfolio wide policy decision is needed to appoint and retain adequate
continuing erosion of skills         numbers and quality of project staff.
Inadequate institutional        Where institutional capacity is weak:
capacity to implement some      *   limit scope to the doable;
components                      *   select critical interventions rather than attempting comprehensive reform;
*   Iimit hardware (civil works) if accompanying software (human resources)
appears less feasible.
Political will                  *   Strong monitoring and managerial and technical support to weak states are
essential but not sufficient for institutional strengthening;
*   Political will (demonstrated in concrete terms) in critical.



17
PART II: Statistical Information
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of           Substantial         Partial        Negligible         Not
Objectives                                                                 Applicable
Macro policies              FI                                                   W  F<
Sector Policies             L                L                 L                I
Financial objectives         W                L                LI
Institutional
development                                    D    W   El l
Physical objectives          W                LI    .                          Z
Poverty reduction           L                 W                LI
Gender issues                n                EL
Other social objectives       I                 I              LI 
Environmental
objectives
Public sector
management                   l                l                 ElD
Private sector
management                   l                l                 D          W



18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
B. Project Sustainability     Likely                Unlikely             Uncertain
w
C. Bank performance           Highly              Satisfactory           Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                                    W
Preparation assistance   L                      Lil
Appraisal                                                               W
Supervision              [E Lx
D. Borrower                   Highly              Satisfactory           Deficient
performance            satisfactory
Preparation                                       W 7 
Implementation                                    W x I
Covenant Compliance                               W x7
Operation (if              m                      n
applicable)              D                      L                     D
E. Assessment of              Highly              Satisfactory           Deficient
outcome                satisfactory
LIII                       ] I



19
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title                   Purpose                Year of         Status
Approval
First Population Project   To support the family welfare program  1972    Credit closed
Cr. 312-IN             in five districts of Mysore (now               June 30, 1980
Karnataka) and six districts of Uttar
Pradesh                                       Project
Completion
Report (PCR)
6/81; PPAR 1/82
Second Population      To support the family welfare program  1980    Credit closed
Project                in six districts of Uttar Pradesh and          March 31, 1988
Cr. 981-IN             three districts of Andhra Pradesh
PCR 1/90; PPAR
8/90
Tamil Nadu Integrated    To improve the nutritional and health  1980    Credit closed
Nutrition Project I    status of preschool children and               March 31, 1989
(TINP)                 pregnant and nursing women.
Cr. 1003-IN                                                           PCR 1/91; Impact
Evaluation report
12/94
Third Population Project  To support the family welfare program  1984    Credit closed
Cr. 1426-IN            in six districts of Kamataka and four          March 31, 1992
districts of Kerala.
PCR 8/93
Fourth Population      To support the family welfare program  1985    Credit closed
Project                in four districts of West Bengal               March 31, 1994
Cr. 1623-IN                                                           PCR 12/94
Fifth (Bombay and      To reduce infant, child and maternal  1988    Credit closed
Madras) Population     morbidity and mortality and to                 March 31, 1996
Project                moderate fertility in the cities of            ICR 10/96
Cr. 1931 -IN           Bombay, Madras and other urban areas
of Tamil Nadu, and to assist the
Municipal Authorities in designing and
implementing improved health and
family welfare programs.
Tamil Nadu Integrated    To extend the successful TINP program  1990    Credit scheduled
Nutrition Project II   to all of Tamil Nadu's 20,000 villages.       to close
(TINP 11)                                                             December 31,
Cr. 2158-IN                                                           1997
Integrated Child       To improve the nutrition and health   1990    Credit scheduled
Development Services   standards of pre-school children and           to close
Project I (ICDS I)     mothers in tribal, drought-prone and           December 31,
Cr. 2173-IN            otherwise disadvantaged areas of               1997
Andhra Pradesh and Orissa.



20
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title                   Purpose                Year of        Status
Approval
Seventh Population     To expand services to lower-income    1990    Credit scheduled
Project                women in the rural areas of Bihar,            to close June 30,
Cr. 2133-IN            Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu&Kashmir,              1998
and Punjab; improve quality, through
demand generation and training of new
and existing health workers and non-
Health Department personnel; and
strengthen management and
information systems.
Child Survival and Safe   To support the Government of India's  1992    Credit closed
Motherhood Project     Maternal and Child Health Program.             September 30,
Cr. 2300-IN                                                           1995
ICR March 1997
Eighth (Family Welfare   To help the Goverunent of India     1991     Credit scheduled
Urban Slums)          increase the supply of family welfare          to close June 30,
Population Project     services in the slum populations of            2001
Cr. 2394-N             Andhra Pradesh. Karnataka, West
Bengal and Delhi.
Integrated Child       To improve the nutrition and health   1993    Credit scheduled
Development Services   status of preschool children and their        to close
Project (ICDS II)      mothers by strengthening and                   September 30,
Cr. 2470-IN           increasing the outreach of the ICDS             2000
program in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.
Ninth (Family Welfare -  To support the family welfare program  1994    Credit scheduled
Assam, Rajasthan and    in the states of Assam, Karnataka and         to close
Karnataka) Population    Rajasthan.                                   December 31,
Project                                                               2001
Cr. 2630-IN
Reproductive Health I    To assist the FWP to: (a) improve   1997    Credit scheduled
Cr. N-018-IN           management performance by                      to close March
nationwide implementation of policy            31, 2003
change referred to as the "participatory
planning approach" and institutional
strengthening; (b) improve quality,
coverage and effectiveness of existing
FW services and progressively expand
scope and content; and (c) increase
access while improving quality in
selected disadvantaged districts and
cities.
A.P. Health Systems    To assist the government of Andhra    1994    Credit scheduled
Cr. 2663-IN            Pradesh to (a) improve efficiency in the      to close March
allocation and use of health resources         31, 2002.
through policy and institutional
development; (b) improve performance
of health care system through
improvements in quality, effectiveness
and coverage of health services at the
first referral or secondary level to better
serve the neediest sections of society.



21
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                           Date
Depart Preparation Mission                    November 26, 1986
Depart Appraisal Mission                      February 24, 1989
Start Credit Negotiations                     May 23, 1989
Board Approval                                June 29, 1989
Credit Signing                                September 11, 1989
Credit Effectiveness                          February 23, 1990
Original Closing Date                         March 31, 1997
Revised Closing Date (Limited Extension)      May 31, 1997
Table 4. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 90 FY 91 FY 92 FY 93 FY 94 FY 95 FY 96 FY 97
Appraisal     2.85    17.16    43.07    71.07   94.06   109.80   120.34   124.60
Estimate
Revised
Estimate      2.85     8.73     16.05   27.69   40.80   53.91    65.55    72.12
after
cancellation
of exchange
rate savings
Actual        6.00    20.54    26.55    26.55   38.48   44.89    52.17    69.99
Actual as %   210.5    120       62      37       41     41       43        56
of appraised
estimate
Actual as %   210.5    235      165      96      94      83       79.6     97
of revised
estimate



22
Table 5A
Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Number of training centers established and
functioning
(Andhra Pradesh  A.P.; Madhya Pradesh = M.P.; Uttar Pradesh = U.P.)
Number of     Number        Number of       Number of    Number of
training    Constructed,    centers fully  additional    additional
centers    upgraded or  functional at end   critical staff  critical
Planned     refurbished   of project (as   planned in      staff
(SAR)                     assessed by    SAR / revised   appointed
Endline survey)    after MTR
State            3             3              3            A.P.: 26      A.P.: 32
Institute of   (one in each                                M.P.: 18      M.P.: 13
Health and      state)                                    U.P.: 45/25    U.P.: 14
Family
Welfare
Regional or    A.P.: 8      A.P.: 8*        A.P.: 8        A.P.: 64      A.P.: 68
Divisional     M.P.: 2      M.P.: 2         M.P.: 2        M.P.: 24      M.P.: 7
Training       U.P.: 18     U.P.: 13**      U.P.: 13     U.P.: 252/102   U.P.: 162
Centers       All: 24       All: 23
District       A.P.: 23     A.P.: 23      A.P.: 100%       A.P.: 148     A.P.: 106
Training       (MTs)         (MTs)        M.P.: 88%        M.P.: 150     M.P.: 78
Centers and    M.P.: 33     M.P.: 33      (8/9 visited)  U.P.: 195/12    U.P.: 180
Mobile         U.P.: 30     U.P.: 58 *    U.P:. 100%
Teams          All: 86     (+ 5 MTs)
(MTs)                       All: 114
Additional    Nil in SAR     A.P.: 1         Nil                           Nil
items*:         - but
ANM           approved
training      after mid-
school (tribal    term
area)         evaluation
Total            113          140            97%          SAR: 922         660
Revised: 569
* Renovations or upgrading of existing training institutions completed by reallocation of funds
within the project budget after mid-term evaluation.
** The numbers were revised after reassessment of basic and in-service training needs, and
adjustment of functions of some existing basic training centers.



23
Table 5B
Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Training Coverage
Status of Key Indicators - Andhra Pradesh
Number Planned   Number attended     % coverage from
in SAR           training*           endline survey of
staff*
Female Health Workers         7,322            5,996               83.9%
Male Health Workers           7,360            4,992               89.5%
Health Supervisors           9,616             4,982               67.0%
Medical Officers             4,017             1,708               71.8%
Trainers                      155              289                 51%
ISM Practitioners            Nil               Nil                Nil
Non-health functionaries      55,000           74,673              77%
Traditional Birth Attendants  15,000           20,344              90%
Total                        98,470            112,984 (114%)
Status of Key Indicators - Madhya Pradesh
Number Planned   Number attended     % coverage from
in SAR           training            endline survey of
staff
Female Health Workers         10,000           9,763               86.0%
Male Health Workers          9,500             7,104               79.0%
Health Supervisors           3,210             6,700               95.0%
Medical Officers              6,290            4,700               78.0%
Trainers                      190              374                Not available
ISM Practitioners            2000              1,677              Not available
Non-health functionaries                       3,841               Not available
Traditional Birth Attendants  18,900           6,501              Not available
Total                        50,090            40,660 (81%)        ----



24
Table 5B cont'd
Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Training Coverage
Status of Key Indicators - Uttar Pradesh
Number Planned   Number attended     % coverage from
in SAR           training            endline survey of
staff
Female Health Workers        33,180            38,871              88.9%
Male Health Workers           19,500           12,286              74.6%
Health Supervisors            6,340            10,030              72.8%
Medical Officers              10,722           7,113               66.7%
Trainers                     318               576                 Not available
ISM Practitioners             2,460            2,685               Not available
Non-health functionaries and  88,000           96,433              Not available
Traditional Birth Attendants
Total                         160,520          167,994 (104%)      ---
Status of Key Indicators - Project Total
Number Planned in SAR        Number attended training
Female Health Workers        50,502                       54,630
Male Health Workers          36,360                       24,382
Health Supervisors           19,166                       21,712
Medical Officers             21,029                       13,521
Trainers                     663                          1,239
ISM Practitioners
Non-health functionaries &
TBAs                         176,900                      201,792
TOTAL                       309,080                       321,638 (104%)**
*Some staff attended more than one training, while others did not attend any. The "number of
attended training" is the total number of participants at training courses while "% coverage" is the
percent of total staff who reported having attended training courses under the project.
**The percent refers to the total number of participants compared to the number planned.



25
Table 5C
Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Upgrading of service delivery facilities
Andhra Pradesh   ]  Madhya Pradesh   [    Uttar Pradesh
Planned Completed    Planned Completed   Planned Completed
Sub-centers constructed      400        600        350       350        750        750
Subcenters furnished,        400        629        350      3,000      10,000     18,250
equipped
PHCs renovated                0         340         59        26        159        68
PHCs equipped                520        726         0         0         533       1,128
PHCs, CHCs and PP centers     0         97          0        250         0          0
upgraded to First Referral
Units (renovations,
equipment)
Number of vehicles           173        136        N/A        46        89        27 for
(purchased or made road-                          2,000       0                  training;
worthy)                                          mopeds                            500
repaired
for PHCs
IUD kits*                     0          0          0       2,900      10,000    10,000
TBA kits**                   9.3m      N/A       30,000               117,000    28,870
Disposable delivery Kits***                       1.2 m     2.0 m
Total
Planned                Completed               Percentage
Sub-centers constructed    1,500                1,700                   113
Subcenters furnished,   10,000                  21,879                 203
equipped
PHCs renovated          218                     434                     199
PHCs equipped           1,053                   1,854                   176
PHCs, CHCs and PP       0                      347                     NA
centers upgraded to FRUs
(renovations, equipment)
Number of vehicles      262                     709                     270
(purchased or made road-
worthy)
IUD kits*               129                     12,900                  129
TBA kits**              9.5m                   28,870                  0
Disposable delivery     1.2m                   2.Om                     160
Kits***
*IUD: intra-uterine device (contraception)
**TBA kits: equipment provided to Traditional Birth Attendants
***Disposable Delivery Kits: a package of simple materials provided to pregnant women to promote
cleanliness during childbirth.



26
Table 6A
Key Indicators for Project Operation: Training Quality and Impact
Percent having critical knowledge
(data from baseline and endline surveys)
Female Health Workers
Andhra Pradesh    |Madhya Pradesh    Uttar Pradesh
Topics                    Baseline   Endline  Baseline  Endline  Baseline   Endline
- Family Planning            90        91      NA*        95.8      NA        89.6
- Maternal health            70        84       NA        97.2      NA        92.7
- Child health               60        86       NA        73.6      NA        67.7
- Immunization               30        88       NA        98.6      NA        100.0
- Contraceptive side-       NA         39       NA       45.0       NA        65.0
effects
=======_____________  _________Supervisors
Andhra Pradesh      Madhya Pradesh   f Uttar Pradesh
Topics                    Baseline  Endline  Baseline  Endline  Baseline   Endline
-Maternal Health - high       16       61        NA       81.8       NA        95
risk factors
-Contraceptive side effects  51        76        NA        94        NA        91
-Correct advise on various   53        77        NA       85.5       NA        88.3
critical FP & MCH
services
Table 6B
Key Indicators for Project Operation: Change in Staff Performance
(data from baseline and endline surveys)
Andhra Pradesh    J Madhya Pradesh     T Uttar Pradesh
Baseline    Endline   Baseline    Endline    Baseline   Endline
Field verification by doctors  27%     66%       NA         NA        45.5     80.5
Correctness of registers/reports    27%  47%     68.2      92.7       76.9     86.3
Supervisors - more than 8    43%       60%       NA        38.6      25.0      28.6
supervisory visits per month
*NA - Not available



27
Table 6C
Key Indicators for Project Operation: Impact of Upgraded Service Delivery
Andhra Pradesh  [ Madhya Pradesh  |   Uttar Pradesh
Baseline  Endline  Baseline  Endline   Baseline   Endline
% subcenters with female     40        65       NA*        53         20        38
worker resident (end-line
survey)
Supervisors resident in or  47%       77%       78.9      85.1       60.0      76.9
within 5 Km of PHC
compound
Medical officers making      13%      47%       42.9      85.4       45.3      48.6
8+ visits to villages
Medical officers resident    NA      37.5%      NA        72.7       NA        75.0
in or near PHC compound
Table 6D
Key Indicators for Project Operation: Utilization of Services by DWCRA Group*
Members in Andhra Pradesh
Place of       General      Assistance  Assistance  Immunization  Family     Abortions
Service        Health       before      for                       planning
Services     Delivery    Delivery                 (Spacing)
PHC            32.3         27.3        20.7        25.8          15.7       9.1
Sub-Center     32.3         28.8        7.6         23.2          11.1       4.5
Government    5.6           6.6         8.6         3.0           3.5        2.5
Hospital
Private        24.2         17.2        13.6        12.6          2.0        -
Hospital
Health         4.0          10.6        20.7        21.7          6.1        3.2
Worker/Dai    I_I_I                          _     I_I_I
Home           1.0         1 0.5        16.2        -             0.5        0
*Village level women's empowerment group who would be grassroots opinion leaders.
*NA - not available



28
Table 6E
Key Indicators for Project Operation: Demand Generation/Opinion leaders and
non-health functionaries
Andhra Pradesh: Attitudes of DWCRA Group Members*
DWCRA Members
Trained        Untrained
No gender preference for first child         82%             71%
Family Planning Practice                     46%             22%
Breastfeeding: knowledge of best practice    67.3%           40%
ORS use                                      85%             71%
Female age of marriage - 18 years +          100%            69%
* DWCRA group members would be grassroots opinion leaders.
Table 6F
Key Indicators for Project Operation: Fertility, Mortality and Coverage Indicators
Andhra Pradesh         Madhya Pradesh         Uttar Pradesh
1991       Most recent 1991       Most        1991      Most recent
data                   recent data           data
IMR                  73         66           117        97          97        85
SRS 96                 SRS 96                SRS 96
Neonatal Mortality   50.5       47.7        68.1        60.2        64.3      53.2
Rate                            SRS 94                  SRS 94                SRS 94
Perinatal Mortality  55.9       47.8        58.2        51.0        50.0      41.0
Rate                            SRS 94                  SRS 94                SRS 94
TFR                  3          2.7         4.6         4.2         5.1       5.1
SRS 94                 SRS 94                SRS 94
Attendance during
delivery:
1. Institutional     32.8       38.1        11.5       25.2        3.9        9.3
2. Domiciliary by    19.1       24.8         12.7       4.4         23.5      5.3
trained professionals
3. Domiciliary by    48.1       37.1        75.8        70.4        72.6      84.4
untrained professionals         SRS 93
and others
% pregnant women     57         79          10.0        69.6        45        49
received ANC
% Fully Immunized    .46        53          36.0        76.5        41.8      44.9



29
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Uttar Pradesh                     Purpose               Status            Impact
Training need Assessment of Health   Input for curriculum    Completed     Used for
and Family Welfare Personnel in    development                             curriculum
Uttar Pradesh.                                                            planning
'Concurrent Evaluation of 'VOW'   NA                    NA                NA
program in UP: An Observation.
SIHFW/RT/2 July, 1992
Functional Status of New Sub-Centers  Evaluation of service   Completed   Provided input
constructed under IPP-VI: A fact-    delivery upgrading                    for addressing
finding study. SIHFW/RT/4 July                                            critical
1994                                                                      implementatio
n issues.
Hindrances in Acceptance of F.P. and  NA                NA                 NA
MCH services Among Muslim in U.P.
;SIHFW/RT/7
Status Study of Never Users of F.P.    NA               NA                NA
Methods in two Districts of Uttar
Pradesh. SIHFW/RT/12                                                                     l
'Teenage Fertility and its determinants: NA             NA                NA
A case of Hill Region of Uttar
Pradesh. SIHFW/RT/10
Fertility Levels and Contraceptive  NA                  NA                NA
Prevalence in Hill regions of U.P.
SIHFW/RT/8 November 94
'Occupational Stress and Mental   NA                    NA                NA
Health: An Empirical Study on
Provincial Civil Servants
SIHFW/RT/9 Dec. 1994
Mid-term Evaluation Report Under    Evaluation of       Completed         Provided input
[PP-IV, Project Training Component,  Training                             for revised
U.P. SIHFW/RT/7.                                                          training
_____________________                   strategies.
"Evaluation of Civil Works        Mid-terrn evaluation   Completed        Input for
Component and Functioning of       of civil works                         improving civil
Facilities"; Construction and H.M.D.                                      works quality
Cell                                                                                     l
Innovation for providing family    To improve service    NA               NA
welfare services in unserved areas of   delivery and spacing
Sub-Centre Dinapani, Almora       methods in unserved
areas
Population Education program for  NA                    NA                NA
Graduate and post Graduate Girl
Students of UP: An Innovative
Project SIHFW/RT/1, April, 1996



30
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Madhya Pradesh                     Purpose              Status            Impact
National training project report on  To provide baseline    Completed     Used in end of
baseline Survey (Volume IV, executive  data for project                   project
Summary)                           planning.                              evaluation.
Patient Load and Medicine          NA                  NA                NA
Requirement Study (NIDC)
Training Need Assessment for I.S.M.   NA               NA                NA
Practitioners (Oct.-Dec. 1991) Madhya
Pradesh
Draft Report on Training Needs     Preparation of       Completed         Used in
Assessment study - Block Medical   curriculum.                            curriculum
Officers                                                                 planning.
IPP-VI Mid-Term Evaluation; Public    Evaluative surveys of  Completed   Results used to
Works Department Progress report   civil works and                       reprogram
July 1994                         training. Expenditure                  project
Review                                activities and
develop new
training
strategies.
Organizational Development in health   Diagnosis of the  Study completed   NA
Services                           Health organization    and implemented.
in Hoshangabad
district in order to:
clarify roles; integrate
working plans;
develop commitment
for integrated plans
and build teams.



31
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Andhra Pradesh                     Purpose             Status           Impact
Training Needs Assessment of Health   Provide input for  Report submitted   Used in
Functionaries for Delivery of FP/MCH   curriculum      to GOI and WB in  curriculum
development         1992             planning
keport on Baseline Survey (Volume I -                  Report submitted   Used in project
Household and eligible Couples)                        to GOI and WB in evaluation.
1992
Midterm Review, 1993               Evaluation of civil    Final report sent   Used to
works and training    to GOI and WB in  develop
May '94.         strategies for
clinical training
and improve
the percent of
staff resident in
operational
areas.
Evaluation of District Training                        Completed         Preparation of
D.T.T.
curriculum
package
Restructuring of existing MIS      To study and        Study completed   MIS revised
recommend           and workshops    and
restructuring of    held to discuss    implemented
existing of existing    results and  throughout
MIS. Health workers  revision of MIS.   State leading to
were maintaining too                 State wide
many records and                     reduction of
reports                              number of
records/reports
Tribal Health Care Project - Multi  To assess the health    Based on the data, Tribal health
Sectoral Survey                   problems,            tribal health plan   plan is under
infrastructure and  prepared and     implementation
facilities available for  submitted to WB
delivery of services   in Nov. '95
and the training needs
of staff working in
tribal areas.
Screening for Thalassaemia and Sickle  Findings will assist in  NA      NA
Cell Anemia in tribal populations  determining health
interventions
Developing Methodology for District   To utilize in district   Report submitted  Is being
Planning.                          planning in Nellore   to Govt. of A.P.   implemented in
District                             districts.



32
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
NHIFW                              Purpose              Status           Impact
Report on Functioning of Health and    Provide input for  Completed      Used to
Family Welfare Training Centers and   rationalizing training             develop
Formulation of Proposals for their  system.                              training
strengthening.                                                           strategy.
Macrostrategy for In-service training of                Completed        Provided
Health and Family Welfare Personnel.                                     guidance to
States.
NA - not available
Table 8. Project Costs and Disbursement Performance by Expenditure Category
(in SDR)
Category of Expenditure    Amount of Credit allocated  Amount disbursed
in Project Agreement
(prior to Cancellations due
to exchange rate
adjustment)
SDR          |% of total   SDR         |% of total
credit                   |disbursement
1.     Civil works and related     41,630,000.00  48         20,242,229.71  38
professional fees
2.     Equipment, furniture, books   20,590,000.00  24        14,353,529.22  27
and vehicles
3.     Consultants' services and    9,350,000.00  11          4,523,851.67  8
local and overseas fellowships
4.     Incremental salaries,       10,080,000.00  11          14,407,297.15  26.5
consumable materials and
operation and maintenance
costs.
5.     Difference due to cross                                  270,923.85  .5
exchange rates on
disbursement to the Special
Account
6.     Unallocated                  5,550,000.00  6
TOTAL                      87,200,000.00  100         53,797,831.60  100



33
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement       Text     Covenant  Status               Description of Covenant                    Comments
Reference     Class
CREDIT         1.0          9        CP    Each State shall appoint staff to its          U.P. has made critical key
Administrative Cell, Human Resources         appointments in response to
Development Cell, SIHFW, Divisional          a threat of suspension.
(Regional) Training Centers and District     Benchmarks have been
Training Center/Teams                        agreed for the remaining
appointments. M.P. has not
sanctioned the key posts as
previously agreed.
2. (a)       9         C      Each State shall prepare and submit to the   Plans have been received.
Association and the Bank by January 31 of each
calendar year, commencing in: (a) an annual
management information and evaluation plan;
and
2. (b)        9        C      (b) an annual evaluation report which outlines  Was integrated into Mid-
progress in meeting project objectives.      Term evaluation.
3.          10       CP    Each State shall identify blocks/districts for the    Experimental blocks
operational research program on performance  identified in Project States
measurement and release them from present    and released from target
target setting procedures.                   setting. Research started in
U.P. and A.P.
4.          10        C     Each State shall submit terns of reference for  National FW program has
innovative schemes to the Association and the  adopted a target free
Bank for review and comment prior to their   approach and all states have
implementation.                              initiated steps to implement
changes.
5.          9         C     Each State shall complete a baseline survey.  Completed by all States.
6.          10       CP    Each State shall ensure that HRDC (human       Under development.
resource development center) develops and
institutes a Personnel Management Information
System.
7.          10       CP    Each State shall ensure that the PHC (primary  Under development.
health center) and Subcenter facilities and
equipment financed under the Project are
adequately maintained during the period of the
Project.
Status:          C                Complied with
CD               Compliance after delay
NC               Not complied with
SOON             Compliance expected in reasonable short time
CP               Complied with partially
NYD              Not yet due
Covenant Class:
1       Accounts/Audit
2       Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3       Flow and utilization of project funds
4       Counterpart funding
5       Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6       Environmental covenants
7       Involuntary resettlement
8       Indigenous people
9       Monitoring, review and reporting
10      Implementation
11      Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12      Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13      Other



34
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff weeks)
Planned/i               Revised/i                   Actual
Stage of project cycle    Week         US$       Weeks       US$          Weeks         US$
Preparation to appraisal                                                   118.5        268.7
Appraisal                                                                   14.2          36.5
Negotiations through
Board approval                                                               5.7          15.3
Supervision               _                                               218.1         456.8
Completion                                                                  10.0          29.6
Total                                                                     366.5         805.9
/1 Not Available
Table 11. Bank Resources - Missions
ISpecialization   2Performance       4Problems
Stage of    Month/Year   Number    Days in    Represented              Rating
Project Cycle                   of        Field
Persons                              I O.S3    Dev. obj.
Familiarization    10/86         2          14    l
Familiarization    11-12/86      1          10    l
Preparation       8-9/88         1          18    l
Preparation        6/88          3          5             C C
Pre-Appraisal    10-11/88        6          5           CA,C
Pre-Appraisal      1/89          3          9      __L_   _
Appraisal         2-3/89         5          35          CA, C
Supervision 1      10/89         4          13    l                    2         1          AF
Supervision 2     5-6/90         6          20      A, CA, D, ME       2         2        AF, PM
Supervision 3    11-12/90        4          17          A, C
Supervision 4     4-5/91         6          23      A, CA, D, ME       2         2        AF, PM
Supervision 5      4/92          6          15        A, CE, CA        2         2       AF, IP, PM
Supervision 6      1/93          5          2           CA, C
Supervision 7      4/93          5          5         C, CA, MS        2         2         AF, IP
IA=Architect, C=Consultant, CA=Consultant Architect, CE=Consultant Educator, CTS=Consultant Training
Specialist, DEM=Demographer, ME=Medical Educator, MS=Management Specialist, SIS=Senior
Implementation Specialist, SS=Social Sector Specialist
2 The earlier performance ratings were based on a numbered system
3 IOS=Implementation (overall status)
4AF=Availability of funds, CL=Compliance with legal covenants, IP=Implementation progress, OS=Overall status,
PM=Project management performance, PR=Procurement progress SP=Studies progress



35
Table 11. Bank Resources - Missions (cont'd)
Performance Rating
Stage of Project  Month/Year   Number    Days in   Specialization                            Problem
Cycle                         of         Field     Represented                               s
Persons                              I.O.S        Dev.
obj.
Mid-Term             7/94           9          18       C, CA, CTS        S           S        AF, IP,
Review                                                                                           PR
Supervision 8        12/94          5          11         CA, CTS         U          U         IP, PR
Supervision 9        11/95          5           9       CTS, CA, C        S           S          AF
Supervision 10       10/96          7          19        CA, CTS,         S           S
____ ___ _  _ ___ ___                          CM S                  _ _  _  _
Supervision 11       06/97          2           5           MS            S           S
Imlplementation      07/97          2           5           MS
Completion
Mission






Appendix 1
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
SIXTH (NATIONAL FAMILY WELFARE TRAINING) POPULATION PROJECT
(CR 2057 - IN)
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
JUNE - JULY, 1997
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission participated in an Implementation Completion Workshop, had
post-workshop discussions in New Delhi during 30 June to 4 July, and prepared the draft
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission consisted of Dr. Indra Pathmanathan
(Senior Public Health Specialist and mission leader) and Ms. Nirmala Murthy (management
specialist). The Workshop was attended by representatives from all three project states, the
National Institute of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW) and Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare (MOHFW). This Aide Memoire surnmarizes the main findings of the mission.
2.    The mission expresses its appreciation to Mr. K.S. Sugathan, Joint Secretary, MOHFW
and his staff, the Director, NIHFW and her staff for organizing the Workshop, and the state
governments of Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh for their contributions to the
Workshop, and to Andhra Pradesh for the reports on the end-line survey.
Mission Objectives
3.    The purpose of the mission was to (a) review Project Completion Reports prepared by
each project state, NIHFW and MOHFW, (b) discuss key findings with the project entities, (c)
prepare a draft of the main text of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), and (d) agree
o:n the schedule and benchmarks for completing the ICR.
Project closing
4.    The project's closing date was 31 March, 1997. For the purpose of enabling completion
oif a few items of procurement that had been inadvertently delayed in Andhra Pradesh, a limited
extension to 31 May, 1997 for those items was approved, with the provision that all claims
whould be submitted by 31 July, 1997. The mission reminded the states and MOHFW that claims
submitted after 31 July would not be eligible.
Evaluation methodology.
5.    As previously agreed, four approaches are being taken in preparing the Implementation
Completion Report: (a) each project state, NIHFW and MOHFW would draft their own
Completion Reports in accordance with the outline provided by the Bank; (b) each state would
provide reports from end-line surveys covering training institutions, trained workers and
beneficiaries. In each project state, and where possible comparisons would be made with
baseline and mid-term data; (c) Bank consultants would review documents and interview key



Appendix 1
Page 2 of 4
project officials, trainers and trainees, and prepare a draft Approach paper outlining key findings;
(d) the ICR workshop with participation from all project entities would review the draft
Completion Reports from each project state and the Approach paper by the Bank and provide
comments. This Aide Memoire summarizes key issues and conclusions from the ICR workshop.
The Bank's Implementation Completion Report will elaborate on these findings.
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    It was agreed that the project had substantially achieved its main objectives. The project
objectives were to:
(a)   improve the efficiency of the human resource development and training systems;
(b)   expand training capacity;
(c)   improve the quality of training being imparted;
(d)   enhance the service delivery system in which the trained worker would operate.
7.    The project fully achieved the objectives of improving the efficiency of the training
system, expanding training capacity and improving training quality in all three states by: (a)
establishing 115 training centers; (b) providing systematic inservice training to more than
300,000 workers and fostering a "training culture" in which training became a desired activity for
workers as well as managers; and (c) improving trainer competence and introducing modem
interactive participatory training methods and a recognition on the need to develop critical
practical skills. The project also fully achieved its objectives of improving the service delivery
system in which the trained worker would operate, by constructing 16,900 sub-centers with
residential facilities for female multi-purpose workers to reside close to their client villages, and
upgrading more than 300 primary health centers and first referral units.
Implementation Progress
8.    The project was characterized by a slow start and low level of implementation activities
during the first four years (1990-93). Subsequently, implementation showed remarkable
improvement in pace and quality, enabling the project to reach a satisfactory status by project
end.
9.    By February/March 1997, MOHFW reported having submitted claims worth Rs. 200
crore against a project cost of Rs. 215 crore. Further claims are expected until July.



Appendix 1
Page 3 of 4
S,tate             Project cost        Claims filed       Expenditure
reported
Andhra Pradesh      75.66 (as revised)*   53.30            62.69
44.91 (original)
Madhya Pradesh      42.50               33.81              40.20
LUttar Pradesh      97.37 (as revised)*   77.95            94.01
110.54 (original)
NIHFW                 1.75               0.57               0.73
MOHFW                                   34.66              46.42
Total              217.28 (as revised)*  200.92           244.05
199.77 (original)
* Project allocation for Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh was revised by MOHFW, once in
February 1996, and subsequently in January 1997.
F'actors affecting implementation and impact
10.   The mission reached agreement with MOHFW and all project entities on critical factors
affecting implementation. Factors contributing to slow start up and earlier low levels of
imnplementation included: (a) cumbersome procedures at state level; (b) delays in financial
sanctions; (c) staffing problems including frequent transfers of project director in Uttar Pradesh,
inadequate project management staff in Madhya Pradesh, and delays in appointing critical
teaching staff in all three states; (d) inadequate technical capacity in the initially selected
community oriented construction agencies in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh; and (e)
unfamiliarity with Bank procedures regarding procurement, submission of claims and timely
audit.
11.   Factors contributing to the subsequent recovery and good progress included: (a) personal
attention and interest of top management at state, MOHFW and NIHFW levels; (b) appointment
of knowledgeable dedicated staff in key positions; (c) state responsiveness to monitoring
feedback provided by Bank missions; (d) aggressive utilization of mid-term evaluation findings;
(e) opportunities to share lessons learnt between stronger performers and weaker states,
particularly during Bank joint review sessions and inter-state visits by project officials; (f)
intensified monitoring by MOHFW, NIHFW and the Bank; (g) intensified technical inputs by the
Bank and NIHFW; (h) reallocation of funds by MOHFW between states in response to
performance; and (i) flexibility within the state in allocating funds to changing priorities and
irmovative activities such as strengthening first referral units for the Child Survival and Safe
Motherhood program in Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, strengthening primary health
centers in Uttar Pradesh, and piloting a tribal health plan in Andhra Pradesh which was
subsequently expanded under the recently approved Reproductive and Child Health project.



Appendix I
Page 4 of 4
Project sustainability
12.   The mission reviewed three aspects of plans for future operation. First, maintenance of
additional teaching staffin the training institutions established under the project. Andhra
Pradesh has already made sufficient provisions. However, in both Madhya Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh the issue is still under consideration by the respective state Finance Departments. The
mission and MOHFW stressed the critical importance of state support for the staff. MOHFW
agreed to follow up with each state and keep the Bank informed prior to finalizing the ICR.
13.   Second, MOHFW provided an assurance that sufficient funds would be made available
for continuation of the training activities in all states, and in Andhra Pradesh, the state provided
an assurance of additional state funds for this purpose. Third, for maintenance of buildings
constructed under the project, Andhra Pradesh provided an assurance that specific funds had
been earmarked for this purpose while the other two states reported that it would be part of the
routine maintenance by the PWD (public works department). The mission urged that
recognizing the low level of resource provided to PWD for maintenance, the Family Welfare
Departments should continue to attempt to obtain specifically earmarked funds for this purpose.
Next steps
14.   End-line survey reports are still awaited from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. It was
agreed that NIHFW would: (a) edit and provide the final versions of the state Project
Completion Reports; (b) follow up with project states to obtain the end-line survey reports,
summarize the findings and submit to the Bank; and (c) assist MOHFW to produce the final
Executive Summary of not more than 10 pages covering the entire project. This Executive
Summary would be submitted to the Bank to be included unedited as an Appendix in the Bank's
ICR.
15.   The agreed schedule is: Bank would submit the draft ICR for comments to MOHFW by
August 31, 1997; MOHFW would provide comments and the Borrower's contribution of the 10
page Executive Summary by September 30, 1997.



Appendix 2
Page 1 of 10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SIXTH (FAMILY WELFARE TRAINING AND SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT)
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2057-IN)
Borrower's Evaluation
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    Area Projects are being implemented since 1972 with financial assistance from World
Bank and other donor agencies with the objective of reducing Maternal and Child Mortality and
Morbidity and birth rate. These objectives were sought to be achieved by improving the Quality
and availability of health and family welfare services through the strengthening of the service
delivery infrastructure and by making medical and para-medical personnel through better training
and program management. Before the inception of IPP-VI, India Population Projects 1 - V were
implemented in certain selected districts and urban cities of various States. IPP-VI was the first
project implemented with focus on Human Resource Development activities on State-wise basis.
IPP-6 NATIONAL FAMILY WELFARE TRAINING PROJECT
2.    The VI National Family Welfare Training and Human Resource and Service Delivery
Development Population Project (IPP VI) was initially sanctioned for a period of five years with
effect from 6.4.90 in the States of A.P., M.P. & U.P. with the basic objectives of strengthening
the Human Resource Development Capacity of the Health & Family Welfare System and to
create cadres of adequately training manpower and to strengthen the infrastructure so as to bring
overall improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of Family Welfare Services. The project
first got extension upto 30.9.1966 and further upto 31.3.1997. The pattern of assistance was a
soft loan from World Bank to Government of India and Grants-in-Aid to the State Governments
by the Government of India.
3.    The original committed project cost at the time of approval of the Project in April, 1990
was 124.6 million $ (Credit 113.3 million $ + Loan 11.3 million $) which was later reduced to
72.76 million $ (SDR 56 million). The original total cost of the project sanctioned by the
Government of India in April, 1990 was Rs. 199.77 crores (AP - Rs. 44.91 crores, MP - Rs.
42.57 crores, UP - Rs. 110.54 crores and NIHFW - Rs. 204.41 crores in July, 1996 and
subsequently revised to Rs. 217.28 crores (AP - Rs. 75.66 crores, MP - Rs. 42.50 crores, UP - Rs.
97.37 crores and NIHFW - Rs. 1.75 crores) in January, 1997 on account or credit savings due to
variations in exchange rates and additional requirements of States due to extension of project
period upto March, 1997.



Appendix 2
Page 2 of 10
Main Objectives of the Project
At the time of launching of IPP-VI Project in April, 1990, Indian Family Welfare
Programme was facing the challenges of low acceptability of Family Planning Services by young
and lower parity women and poor orientation in skills and counseling of the family welfare
workers. IPP-VI Project was, therefore, launched with the aim of meeting these challenges
through training of staff and organizational development of the program. The main objectives of
this project are as under: -
Improvement in efficiency of human resources development and training system by:
(a)   Strengthening the Directorate of Health & Family Welfare in each participating
State through establishment of Human Resources Development Cell (HRDC) to
undertake the development of (i) Personal Management Information Systems
(PMIS) to track training experiences and requirement for all family welfare staff;
(ii) Management Information Evaluation System (MIES) to ensure continuos
tracking of project implementation; feedback systems for evaluating the Training
inputs and availability of supplies, to assist in on-the-job Training-Supervision
and to bring out client orientation in the service, assessing program performance,
regular tracking and feedback systems for assessing program performance; (iii)
Health Systems Research and Development to assess program performance and
provide feedback on performance to District, block and sub-center units and (iv)
to undertake human resources studies, and
(b)   Rationalization of the Training Infrastructure through development of the training
institutions for coherent institutional in-service training as well as routine on-the-
job Training to all major functionaries in all States by establishing (i) State
Institute of Health & Family Welfare (SIHFW), (ii) Divisional/Regional Training
Center, and (iii) District Training Centers/Teams.
2.    Expanding existing training capacity by: -
(a)   Construction, furnishing and equipping of new and the upgraded existing pre-
services (basic) training institutions for Female and Male Health Workers and
Health Assistants.
(b)   Training of public and private practitioners of ISM to increase their involvement
in family welfare programme.
3.   Improving the Quality of the Training by: -
(a)   Organizing training of trainers (TOT) courses.



Appendix 2
Page 3 of 10
(b)   Systematic development and dissemination of training materials based on revised
and updated curricula.
(c)   In-service, institutional and on the job training for all categories of health
personnel.
4.    Enhancing the service delivery system by: -
(a)   Providing additional and better facilities at PHCs and Sub-Centers (Vehicles,
equipment and other physical facilities).
Financial Achievements
5.    Against the revised credit of SDR 56 million, the total disbursement upto September 12,
1997 was SDR 53.79 million (96.05%).
Project Monitoring
6.    Every Implementing State constituted a Steering Committee under the chairmanship of
Secretary, Health & Family Welfare to monitor the progress of IPP-VI Project and also to clear
the proposals and to issue sanctions for budgeted items. These States had also constituted a
Governing Board/Council under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary to review the progress of
activities of IPP-VI, to take policy decisions and to issue guidelines from time to time. Secretary
(FW) of these States also reviewed the project activities independently from time to time.
7.    In the Ministry, the monitoring was done through monthly feedback reports, review
nmeetings taken by Joint Secretary from time to time and review taken by the Ministry in
collaboration with the IDA Mission.
Achievements and Shortfalls
8.    All components were implemented in the three Implementing States with varying degree
of success. Civil Works were more or less completed and training targets set in Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) mostly attained. All the three Implementing States constituted/established (i)
Administrative Cells/Units; (ii) Governing Board/Council; (iii) Steering Committee; (iv)
Personal Management Information System (PMIS) and (v) Management Infornation &
Evaluation System (MIES).
9.    The project established 3 State Institute of Health and Family Welfare, 20 Regional
Iraining Centers, 114 Training Centers and constructed 1699 sub-Centers and imparted training
to 4.1 lakh medical and para-medical staff.
10.   The progress of the project was slow in the beginning. The timely interventions,
intensified monitoring, reappropriation of funds, more flexibility and efforts made by the States,



Appendix 2
Page 4 of 10
MOHFW, and World Bank helped in enhancing the implementation of the project which led to
successful completion of most of the project activities within the stipulated time period. The
State-wise and component-wise achievements of the Project are as under:-
I. Andhra Pradesh
(a) Efficiency Improvement - Under the Efficiency Improvement objective, Human
Resource Development Cell has been established, Project Management Information
System (PMIS) developed though late by National Industrial Development
Corporation (NIDC), New Delhi and Management Information System restructured.
Rationalization of training infrastructure was done by establishing one State Institute
of Health & Family Welfare, 4 Regional Training Centers (Male), 4 Regional
Training Centers (Female), 23 District Training Teams and 23 Field Practice
Demonstration Areas. A series of research studies were also conducted.
(b) Capacity Expansion - Under the Capacity Expansion objective, the major
achievements inter-alia include i) making SIHFW autonomous; ii) Construction of
Administrative and Teaching Blocks, hostel, staff quarters and Guest House at
SIHFW; iii) Strengthening of 4 Regional Training Centers (Male) and 4 Regional
Training Centers (Female) by adding new facilities and improving existing facilities;
iv) renovation and upgrading of 105 PHCs to FRUs; v) Strengthening of 3 PP Units
with Operation Theaters and Labor Room; vi) Construction of 600 sub-Centers along
with ANMs quarters with minimum facilities and supply of equipment, material and
furniture to these sub-Centers; vii) supplying teaching aids, material and computers
and software packages to training Centers at various levels.
(c) Quality Improvement - Training of Trainers programme was given priority and the
trainers of SIFHW, RTCs, DTCs and undergone TOT at various Institutions. The
other significant achievements related to - i) Systematic development of training
module and material for all categories of health personnel; ii) establishment of library
information centers at HMDC, SIHFW, 8 RTCs and 23 DTCs; iii) organizing a
massive IEC Programme in 7 low-performing districts with involvement of NGOs;
iv) in-service training to all categories of health care at grass root level, v) induction
training to newly recruited Medical Officers of PHCs, TBAs and non-health
functionaries and hospital based clinical training for PHC medical officers, clinical
training for ANMs, LHVs and TBAs in women's hospital.
(d) Service Delivery Enhancement - Equipment were supplied to 340 PHCs, 86 PHCs
were upgraded to CHCs, 30 PHCs, 18 FRUs and 83 PP Units were strengthened in 7
backward districts. 100 vehicles were provided to PHCs on replacement basis.



Appendix 2
Page 5 of 10
II. Madhya Pradesh
(a) Efficiency Improvement - An administrative Cell was constituted under the
chairnanship of Chief Secretary to evaluate the progress and the implementation of
the product. The Human Resource Development Cell was established. The Personal
Management Information System (PMIS) has been developed by NIDC,. New Delhi
and operationalized with the procurement of necessary software. Institutionalization
of Health Management Information System is in an advance stage with collaboration
from NICNET. Rationalization of Training Infrastructure has been done by
establishing 1 State Institute of Health Management and Communication (SIHMC),
construction/renovation of 4 Regional Training Centers and construction of 33
District Training Centers. A number of research studies were also conducted under
the project.
(b) Quality Improvement - In-service and on the job training to health personnel was
imparted in SIHMC, RTC and DTC. PHC Medical officers were also imparted
induction/in-service training. Training of Trainers programme was undertaken in
SIHMC. In total, 374 trainers were trained against the target of 190. Manuals for
Induction Training of Chief Medical and Health Officers and Medical Officers have
also been developed by SIHFW.
(c) Service Delivery Enhancement - All the 350 proposed sub-centers buildings were
constructed and supplied with equipment and furniture. Equipment have also been
provided to FRUs. Under the project, 50 vehicles were purchased and supplied to
Training Institutes.
1II. Uttar Pradesh
(a) Efficiency Improvement - Under the efficiency improvement, Project Coordinator
Cell, Health Management Development (HMD) and construction cell were
established. Rationalization of training infrastructure was done from state level to
grass root level by establishing (a) 1 SIHFW; (b) 13 Divisional Training Centre
(DTCs); (c) 58 District Training Centre; and (d) 5 Mobile Training Teams (DMTTs).
The Personal Management Information System (PMIS) has been developed in
collaboration with National Information System (NIS). Regarding Health
Management Information System (HMIS), the State Government in principle, has
accepted the HMIES of Government of India and action about its implementation is
in progress. Eight Research and Innovative Studies and two collaborative projects
with ICMR and one with CARE were also taken under the project.
(b) Capacity Expansion - Under capacity expansion, the main activities inter-alia include
rehabilitation of 7 old DTCs by strengthening them, construction of 6 new DTCs,
construction of 35 DPTTs and their strengthening, ftunishing of 22 ANMTCs,
provision of teaching aids and materials, construction of 750 new sub-centers and



Appendix 2
Page 6 of 10
their strengthening and orientation of public and private practitioners of Indian
System of Medicine (ISM) in family welfare programme.
(c) Quality Improvement - Training of Trainers Programs were organized for the trainers
from DPTTs, DTCs and SIHFW. Training modules including skill training module
and handy pictorial ANM Training module and other teaching material were
developed, printed and distributed. Institutional in-service and recurrent on the job
training for all categories of health functionaries were imparted in addition to hospital
based training for PHC Medical Officers and Clinical training in women Hospitals for
ANMs and LHVs. Inter-state study tours to other IPP-VI States for the trainers of
DTCs and DPTTs and international study tours for trainers from SIHFW, DTCs and
the project and Government officials were also arranged.
(d) Service Delivery Enhancement - The main activities related to strengthening of 1128
PHCs and 18250 sub-centers by procuring equipment and furniture, supply of IUD
kits and DD kits, improving the mobility by providing 27 vehicles and providing
necessary funds to repair 500 PHCs off road vehicles to bring them on road.
IV. National Institute of Health & Family Welfare
NIHFW sensitized the project States on the concept of Health Manpower
Development and the need for developing PMIS so as to enable them to establish
HMD Cell and PMIS. NIHFW also provided necessary support and guidance to
States for development of SIHFW. The other activities related to conducting of
various training courses, monitoring of project activities with particular emphasis on
training institutions, etc. Organization of workshops at the beginning of every
financial year to help States to develop the action plan and strategies for training and
research and reviewing the implementation of action plans towards the end of the
year, establishment of training research development consortium and undertaking of
various research studies were also done.
Impact of the Project
11.   The Project has succeeded in establishing 3 State Institute of Health & Family Welfare,
20 Regional Training Centers, 114 District Training Centers and 1699 Sub-Centers. These
Institutes/Sub-Centers have helped in imparting training to about 4.1 lakh medical and para-
medical staff to upgrade their technical and supervisory knowledge and skills and improving the
coverage of family welfare programme.
12.   The infrastructure constructed under the project has improved accessibility of services,
particularly in rural areas. The comprehensive infrastructure of training institutions developed
will also help in imparting counseling and clinical skills to health workers who could identify
and motivate eligible couples to adopt family planning services voluntarily. The new RCH
Project can use this infrastructure. The States got an opportunity to properly develop and



Appendix 2
Page 7 of 10
organize their HRDC, PMIS and MIES which were earlier not attended to properly. This would
be helpful in mobilizing and coordinating the health functionaries.
13.   IPP-VI Project is different from the earlier projects in the sense that earlier projects
focused on reducing fertility, increasing contraceptive prevalence and reducing infant mortality
w]hile IPP-VI main focus was on strengthening of a critical support system. The improvements
made under the project have also contributed to a great extent in the reduction of Crude Birth
Rate, Crude Death Rate and Infant Mortality Rate and in increasing Couple Protection Rate in all
the three Implementing States. The details are as under:-
_____    CBR         CDR            IMR              CPR
STATE  1990   1995        1990   1995  1990    1995    1990    1995   l
AP       26.3   24.2     9.1    8.4   70        67      44.2    49.4
MP       37.1   33.2      12.6   11.2  111      99      39.4    48.0
UP       35.6   34.8      12.0   10.3  99       86      33.3    37.1
Major Factors which affected Implementation of the Project
14.   In all the States, the Project implementation could be streamlined only after 3 years
because of the following reasons:-
(a)  Filling up on the critical key posts took considerable time because of the
administrative procedures. Delays were further aggravated due to the fact that the
State's Finance Departments were reluctant to agree to fill up all the posts because
after the project period the financial liability for continuing these posts were to be
borne by the States from their own funds.
(b)  In some cases, there were frequent transfers of senior Project staff which slowed
down the project activities.
(c)  Procedural delays involving financial sanctions were also noticed even in cases
approved by the Governing body.
(d)  Project staff not conversant with World Bank procedures for procurement of Civil
Works, Equipment, Drugs, etc. which are quite different from the procedures
followed by the State Governments. The understanding of these procedures and
their execution took considerable time.
15.   District Officers did not depute the adequate number of staff for training. In many cases,
the staff trained under the project were transferred to Departments not concerned with the project
activities.
16.   State Institutes of Health and Family Welfare which are the Apex Training Institutes were
not given the autonomous status by UP & MP due to which problems were experienced in



Appendix 2
Page 8 of 10
meeting the objectives envisaged under the project. The problems were experienced in attracting
talented persons to impart training. Besides the functional linkages of SIHFW with RTC & DTC
for better planning and monitoring of the project could not be developed.
17.   In some of the places, ANMs did not utilize the accommodation provided to them in the
sub-centers due to lack of basic amenities such as water, electricity, poor site selection.
Personnel problems and security reasons also restrained many of the ANMs to utilize such
accommodation.
Lessons Learnt
18.   From IPP-VI Project, a few lessons were learnt which would be utilized for bringing
improvements in the implementation of other on-going and future projects. Important ones are
as under:-
(a)   In the beginning of the project itself, administrative machinery in the
Implementing States should be geared up and proper coordination developed
among various administrative wings so as to avoid delay in issuing necessary
sanction orders for the smooth flow of funds. States could consider constituting
State level societies to overcome this problem.
(b)   Proper care should be taken in the selection of sites for construction of sub-centers
with provisions of necessary accommodation having minimum basic amenities
such as electricity, water, etc. so as to enable ANMs and other para-medical staff
to stay there safely. While doing so, it should also be ensured that they do not
stay in out of way places so that security and accessibility do not pose the
problem.
(c)   The vacancies should be filled up in time by appointing suitable persons as per the
job requirements. This can be achieved better by the use of PMIS which should
be developed and made functional well before the inception of the project;
(d)   The Aide Memoire and agreement signed on the project should clearly contain the
previsions for sustainability of the staff appointed under the project after the
completion of the project period by the Implementing States;
(e)   There should be enough provision for engaging Experts/Consultants/Professionals
from outside on contract basis. This is so because many a times, the staff
recruited on deputation and on transfer basis from other Departments, are not the
most suitable.
(f)   The World Bank should examine the possibilities for simplifying the procedures
for procurement of Civil Works, Equipment, Drugs, etc.



Appendix 2
Page 9 of 10
(g)   Since frequent transfers of senior project staff adversely affect and delays the
implementation process, States should find out a mechanism for retention of
project staff for the reasonable tenure;
(h)   The monitoring and evaluation should be strengthened further by holding
meetings of Government Bodies and Steering Committees regularly and
reviewing the progress of the projects by the concerned officials from time to
time. In such meetings, it should be ensured that the funds are being utilized
properly as per the time schedule and for the activities envisaged under the
project;
(i)    The Implementing States must ensure that the auditing of Projects and
reconciliation of expenditure figures with AG's figures are carried out in time;
(I)    More care should be taken while selecting Organization for conducting base-line
and end-line surveys conducted in time and assessment of the projects known
before submitting final reports to World Bank.
(k)   Under training emphasis should be given on improving its quality and developing
adequate client skills.
(1)    District Officers should take advance action for deputing the adequate number of
staff (using PMIS) having requisite knowledge keeping in view their present and
future job requirements for various training programs under the project;
(m)   State should encourage inter-State visits, seminars and workshops relevant to the
projects so as to have the staff gain experience of the projects in other
States/Areas;
(n)   States should give due priority in the maintenance of the buildings and Training
Institutions constructed under the projects by making adequate provisions for their
maintenance and their utilization for the purpoges envisaged after the completion
of the project period.
Future Planning
19.   It is quite often observed that poor planning lead to bad results. The Projects are delayed
and become uneconomical because of improper planning. The experience of IPP-VI shows that
such types of projects should be implemented in phased manner: (i) preparatory planning phase
and (ii) implementation phase. In the preparatory planning phase, plans should be drawn to
chalk out the pre-construction activities such as appointing the administrative and technical staff
namely Architects, Specialists from financial and Health Sectors besides making guidelines for
necessary administrative sanctions, financial planning, schedules, drawings maps, site selection,
development of PMIS & MIES, etc.



Appendix 2
Page 10 of 10
20.   The implementation phase should begin with the construction of buildings, procurement
of furniture and equipment and imparting of training.
21.   The final phase should ensure that the buildings/Institutions constructed under the project
become functional by posting of the requisite staff along with supply of necessary equipment's
and furniture for the purposes envisaged.
22.   It has been observed that in the Project States some of the ANMs are not occupying the
residence constructed for them in Sub-Centers. This is mainly due to lack of basic amenities,
poor site selection and or security reasons. It will be better if self employed ANMs on contract
basis are appointed and paid on the basis of their performance. This has already been tried in
Andhra Pradesh and proved successful. Another suggestion is that some local village women
with requisite qualification may be chosen for this job who may be available in the village to
provide services to the villagers throughout the day.
23.   One of the main reasons for the slow progress of implementation in the beginning of the
project was due to complex disbursement procedures of the World Bank. To overcome this
problem, it would be appropriate if World Bank conducts a seminar of 2-3 days inviting
concerned Project Officials from the Implementing States, Government of India and other
concerned Institutions so as to enable them to understand these procedures thoroughly. States
should also ensure that the people trained in such workshops are not transferred.
24.   The monitoring in the Ministry till now is based on monthly feedback reports, reviews
taken by senior officials from time to time. To have first hand information knowledge of the
activities being carried out in the States, Field monitoring by Government of India officials
should be given due emphasis in future projects.
m:/population/ipp6/icr/icrfin2.doc



