Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2057 IN
           (Sixth (National Family Welfare Training and
             Systems Development) Population Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 11, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2057 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 11,  1989,  between  INDIA, acting
by its  President  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has  also  requested the International Bank
for  Reconstruction  and   Development   (the   Bank)  to  provide
additional assistance towards  the  financing  of  the Project and
by an agreement of  even  date  herewith  between the Borrower and
the Bank (the Loan  Agreement),  the  Bank  is agreeing to provide
such  assistance  in  an  aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent
to eleven  million  three  hundred  thousand dollars ($11,300,000)
(the Loan);
     (C)  the Borrower and the  Association  intend, to the extent
Page  2
practicable, that the proceeds of  the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on  account  of  expenditures in respect of
the Project  before  disbursements  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
     (D)  the Project  will  be  carried  out  by  the Ministry of
Health and  Family  Welfare  of  the  Borrower  and,  by a Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the State of Andhra Pradesh,
the State of Madhya Pradesh  and  the  State of Uttar Pradesh (the
Project Agreement), the said States  have each agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of carrying out the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  of  even  date
herewith between the Borrower  and  the  Bank  for the Project, as
such agreement may be  amended  from  time  to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions  Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
     (b)  "Project  Agreement"  means   the  agreement  among  the
Association, the Bank and Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh of even date  herewith,  as  the  same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "the States" means  Andhra  Pradesh,  Madhya Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh and  any  other  State  with  which the Borrower has
entered into an agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, for the  carrying  out  of the Project, including
any successors to any of them;
     (d)  "State" means, as the  context  may  require, any one of
the States referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of this Section;
     (e)  "Andhra Pradesh" means Andhra Pradesh, a State of India,
or any successor thereto;
     (f)  "Madhya Pradesh" means Madhya Pradesh, a State of India,
or any successor thereto;
     (g)  "Uttar Pradesh" means Uttar  Pradesh,  a State of India,
or any successor thereto;
     (h)  "MOHFW" means the Ministry  of Health and Family Welfare
of the Borrower;
     (i)  "SIHFW" means a  State  Institute  of  Health and Family
Welfare;
Page  3
     (j)  "PHC" means a Primary Health Center;
     (k)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Rupees" and the  sign  "Rs"  means  the currency of the
Borrower; and
     (m)  "fiscal year"  means  the  fiscal  year  which begins on
April 1 each year and ends on March 31 of the following year.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to eighty-seven  million  two  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 87,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be  March  31, 1997
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Page  4
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15,  1999  and  ending  March  15, 2024. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on March 15,
2009  shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%)  of  such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The  currency  of  the  United States is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02  of  the  General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out,  or cause to be
carried out, the Project with  due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and  health  and  family  welfare  practices,  and  shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
obligations under this Development  Credit Agreement, the Borrower
shall  cause  the  States  to   perform  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the  Project  Agreement  all the obligations therein
respectively set forth,  shall  take  and  cause  to  be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate  to enable the States to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make  the  proceeds of the Credit and
the proceeds of the Loan available  to each of the States for such
parts of the Project  as  are  to  be  carried  out by each of the
States in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for
development assistance to the States of India.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
Page  5
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out pursuant to Section  2.03  of the Project Agreement by
each of the States in respect of  such parts of the Project as are
carried out, respectively, in the States.
     Section 3.04.  The  Borrower  shall  staff the Administrative
Cell in MOHFW in accordance with an agreed schedule.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall  prepare and furnish to the
Association by January 31 of each calendar year commencing in 1990
annual summative  and  comparative  evaluation  reports on Project
implementation in respect of the preceding fiscal year.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall  prepare and furnish to the
Nursing Council of India a revised pre-service training curriculum
for Auxiliary Nurse Midwife by December 31, 1989.
     Section 3.07. The  Borrower  shall,  in  conjunction with the
States, undertake a formal mid-term  review of Project progress by
December 31, 1993 and  shall prepare reports including monitorable
benchmarks on which to  assess  such  progress for review with the
Association.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower  shall  prepare and furnish to the
Association by January  31  of  each  calendar  year commencing in
1990: (a) an annual training plan including details of pre-service
programs,  in-service   institutional   programs   and  on-the-job
training programs; and (b) an annual civil works program.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower  shall  review  and revise the job
descriptions and work routines of Health Workers and Assistants no
later than December 31, 1991.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies  of  the  Borrower,   including  MOHFW,  responsible  for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning such  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
Page  6
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit report for the
               fiscal year in which  the  last withdrawal from the
               Credit Account  was  made,  all records (contracts,
               orders,  invoices,   bills,   receipts   and  other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any of the States  shall  have  failed to perform any of
its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make  it improbable that any of the
States will be able to  perform  any of its respective obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and  shall  continue  for  a period of sixty
(60) days  after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  all  conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the  Loan  Agreement  have  been fulfilled, other
than those relating to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association,  namely,  that the Project Agreement
has been duly  authorized  or  ratified  by Andhra Pradesh, Madhya
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh,  and  is  legally  binding upon each of
them in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
Page  7
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of  the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall  cease  and  determine on the date on
which the Development Credit  Agreement  shall terminate or on the
date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Secretary  or  any  Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary or Under Secretary of
the Department of Economic Affairs  in  the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated  as  representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
               New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  8
                            SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds
                   of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of  the  Credit  and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage  of  expenditures  for  items so to be
financed in each Category:
                        Amount         Amount
                        of the         of the
                        Credit          Loan          % of
                       Allocated      Allocated      Expendi-
                      (Expressed     (Expressed       tures
                        in SDR        in Dollar       to be
     Category         Equivalent)    Equivalent)    Financed
(1)  Civil works       41,630,000                   75%
     and related
     professional
     fees
(2)  Equipment,        20,590,000                   100% of
     furniture,                                     foreign
     books and                                      expendi-
     vehicles                                       tures,
                                                    100% of
                                                    local ex-
                                                    penditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and
                                                    75% of
                                                    local ex-
                                                    penditures
                                                    for other
                                                    items pro-
                                                    cured
                                                    locally
                        Amount         Amount
                        of the         of the
                        Credit         Loan           % of
                       Allocated      Allocated      Expendi-
                      (Expressed     (Expressed       tures
                        in SDR        in Dollar       to be
     Category         Equivalent)    Equivalent)    Financed
(3)  Consultants'       9,350,000     3,300,000     75%
     services
     and local
     and overseas
     fellowships
(4)  Incremental       10,080,000     7,000,000     80% of local
     salaries,                                      expenditures
     consumable                                     until
     materials                                      March 31, 1991,
     and opera-                                     60% of local
     tion and                                       expenditures
     maintenace                                     until
     costs                                          March 31, 1993
                                                    40% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    until
                                                    March 31, 1995
                                                    and 35% of local
                                                    expenditures
Page  9
                                                    thereafter
(5)  Unallocated        5,550,000     1,000,000
                       __________   ___________
     TOTAL
                       87,200,000    11,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the dates in  Category  (4)  of  the  table set forth in
paragraph 1 above refer to dates  of receipt by the Association of
applications for withdrawals from the Credit Account.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 770,000, may be  made  in respect of Categories (1) through
(4) on account of payments  made for expenditures before that date
but after October 31, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The principal  objective  of  the  Project  is  to assist the
Borrower to achieve improved  efficiency  and effectiveness in the
implementation of its national  family welfare program. This would
be achieved through:  (a)  improving  the  efficiency of the human
resources development and training systems; (b) expanding existing
training capacity to meet staffing requirements; (c) improving the
quality of the  training  being  imparted;  and  (d) enhancing the
service delivery system in which the trained worker will operate.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Strengthening the Directorates  of  Health and Family Welfare
in  each  State  through  the  establishment  of  Human  Resources
Development Cells to undertake the development of:
     (a)  Personnel  management   information   systems  to  track
training  experiences  and  requirements  for  all  family welfare
staff.
     (b)  Management information and  evaluation systems to assure
regular  tracking  and  feedback  systems  for  assessing  program
performance.
     (c)  Health  systems  research   and  development  to  assess
program  performance  and  provide   feedback  on  performance  to
district, block and subcenter units.
     (d)  Human resources studies.
Part B:
     Rationalizing  the   training   infrastructure   through  the
development of systems  which  are  capable  of providing coherent
institutional in-service training  as  well  as routine on-the-job
Page  10
training to all major functionaries in each State by establishing:
     (a)  State Institutes of Health and Family Welfare;
     (b)  Divisional (Regional) Training Centers; and
     (c)  District Training Centers/Teams.
Part C:
     (a)  The construction, furnishing  and  equipping of new, and
the  rehabilitation  of,  existing  pre-service  (basic)  training
institutions for Female Health Workers and Assistants.
     (b)  Increasing  the  involvement   of   public  and  private
practitioners of Indian Systems  of  Medicine  (ISM) in the family
welfare program through training  in  family welfare promotion and
clinical skills on  a  selective  basis, and establishing training
facilities in existing ISM colleges.
Part D:
     (a)  Instituting a training of trainers program.
     (b)  Systematic  development  and  dissemination  of training
materials based on revised and updated curriculum.
     (c)  Establishing a program  of  in-service institutional and
recurrent  on-the-job  training  for   all  categories  of  health
functionaries.
Part E:
     (a)  Construction, furnishing and  equipping  of new, and the
rehabilitation of existing, Primary Health Centers and Subcenters.
     (b)  Provision for the maintenance, repair and replacement of
vehicles, buildings and equipment  and of medical, family planning
and other necessary supplies.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by September 30,
1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or of  the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn  from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account and deposited  into  the  Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
Page  11
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special  Account  such  amount  or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to  replenish  the  Special  Account  with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments  made  out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit  Account  or from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement, or  directly  from  the  Loan Account in
               accordance with the  provisions  of Section 2.02 of
               the Loan Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
               Conditions applicable thereto; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of  the Credit and of
               the Loan allocated  to  the eligible Categories for
               the Project, minus  the  amount  of any outstanding
               special commitment entered  into by the Association
               or  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the
               respective General Conditions  with  respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and
of the Loan allocated to  the  eligible Categories for the Project
shall follow such procedures  as  the Association shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Association shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
Page  12
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association or the Bank)  an  amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit  by  the  Association  into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to  the  Association  or  the  Bank  such  outstanding  amount for
crediting to the Credit Account  or  the Loan Account, as the case
may be.
