Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9938
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
ECONOMIC ANTD FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1493-NIR)
OCTOBER 3, 1991
Country Operations Division
Country Department V
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Francs
US $1.00       = 283 CFA Francs  1/
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADETEF   =  Association pour le D6veloppement des Echanges en
Technologie Economique et Financi6re (Association for the
Development of Technical Exchange in Economic and Finance)
SEDES   =   Soci6t6 d'Etudes pour le D6veloppement Economique et Sociale
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/    As of June 1, 1991.  The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc
(FF) in the ratio of FF 1.0 to CFAF 50.0. The FF is currently
floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offlce of Dlretor-General
Operations Evaluation
October 3, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Niger - Economic and Financial
Manazement luDrovement Proiect (Credit 1493-NIR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Niger - Economic and Financial Management Improvement
Project (Credit 1493-NIR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restrfcted distributlon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their otldal doties.
Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autboriUtion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1493-NIR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paore No.
PREFACE ........................................................                              i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................                                          iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIV2 ............                              1
A.   Project Identity ........................................                            1
B.   Project Background ......................................                            1
C.  Project Objectives and Description ......................                            2
Project Objectives ....................................                          2
Project Components ....................................                          2
D.  Project Design and Organization .........................                            2
E.  Project Implementation ..................................                            3
Project Risks .........................................                          4
Unforeseen Factors Affecting Project Implementation ...                          5
Actions or Decisions Taken or not Taken which
Affected Project Implementation .....................                          5
F.  Major Results of the Project ............................                            5
Impact of Project .....................................                          5
G.  Project Sustainability ..................................                            6
H.   Bank Performance ........................................                           7
Major Strengths and Weaknesses ........................                           7
Lessons Learned .................,                                               7
I.  Borrower Performance ....................................                            8
Major Strengths and Weaknesses ........................8 
Lessons Learned .......................................                          8
J.  Project Relationships ...................................                            9
Impact of Relationships on Project Implementation .....                          9
K.  Consulting Services .....................................                            9
Role, Performance Level and Implications of
Involvement .........................................                          9
L.  Project Documentation and Data ..........................                            9
Adequacy of President's Report and Major Working
Papers ..............................................                          9
Availability of Relevant Data to PCR Mission ..........                         10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
PART III:   STATISTICAL  INFORMATION .............. ..............                                 11
1. Related IDA Credits                                     ..                                     11
2. Project Timetable                                      ..                                       12
3. Credit Disbursements                                     ..                                     13
4. Project Costs and Financing                                   ..                               14
A.   Project Costs ........................................                               14
B. Project &Inancing .......................                                              15
5. Status of Covenants                                     ..                                      16
6. Use of Bank Resources                        ...................                                18
A.   Staff Inputs .........................................                               18
B.   Missions .............................................                               19
7.  Major Studies ..............................................                                  20



-. i -
PROJFCT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDTT 1493-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Economic and
Financial Management Improvement Project in Niger, for which Credit 1493-NIR
in the amount of SDR 11 million was approved on June 7, 1984. The credit
was closed on October 31, 1990, six months behind schedule. All but
SDR 0.01 million was disbursed and the last disbursement was in July 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division, Country
Department V, of the Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III). On March 19, 1991, IDA requested the Borrower to prepare Part II by
end-April 1991, but no reply was received. A reminder was sent on May 15,
1991, but again no reply was received. A French version of Parts I and III
were sent to the Borrower on June 19, 1991, for comments, but none were
received.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the President's
Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between
IDA and the Borrower, and internal IDA memoranda.



- ,ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1493-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
1.        The key objectives of the five-year project were to: (i) help the
Government design a consolidation program for the short term and a struc-
tural adjustment program for the medium term; and (ii) strengthen the
economic and financial management capabilities of the Ministries of Plan and
Finance.
Imylementc: ion Experience
2.        The progress of pro.,ect implementation was mixed.  Given the
urgency and the built-up expectations of an IMF stand-by program and a World
Bank structural adjustment operation, progress on SAL-related studies and
technical assistance was generally satisfactory. However, for the other
components, particularly training, implementation experienced delays and
problems. There was a strong reluctance on the part of the Government to
elaborate and finally adhere to the detailed training programs for the
Ministries of Plan and Finance, which were ultimatelv launched between three
to four years after credit effectiveness (paras. 9(i), 10, 16). The civil
works component, introduced halfway through project implementation, entailed
the construction of a documentation center in the Ministry of Plan and the
extension of the computer center in the Ministry of Finance. These activi-
ties met considerable delays, mainly because of the slow local bureaucratic
procedures in awarding bids ane conflicts of interest in the selection
process (para. 9). Another factor adversely affecting project implemen-
tation was the rapidly deteriorating budgetary situation in Niger, which led
to frequent requests for the use of project resources to cover operating
expenditures and the restoration of offices. Linked to this was the exten-
sion of salary supplements to the support staff of working groups in charge
of supervising SAL studies, instead of just to the training officers, as
originally foreseen in the project. This practice was later stopped by the
Bank in all its projects (para. 12).
Results
3.        The project's overall objectives were met, with the short-term
objectives of preparing a consolidation program and a structural adjustment
program having been met more successfully than the longer-term objectives of
institutional reform. The project successfully put in place an external
debt management system, computerized the fiscal and customs administrations,
introduced the methodology for a three-year rolling public investment
program, contributed to the preparation of general economic indicators
(including national accounts), and financed a number of studies, such as the



- iv -
diagnostics of selected public enterprises, cost-reccvery study, and the
industrial incentives study, all of which contributed to the structural
adjustment program (para. 15). On the negative side, the training component
assumed a lree-for-all approach, wherein all staff of the ministries became
eligible, and more often than not general training abroad was accepted at
the cost of job-related training (para. 16). The project included a large
component for additional studies and technical assistance (28 percent of
total) in order to provide flexibility to changing needs of the adjustment
program. It appears that part of this component became a sort of slush fund
for a number of activities (para. 13), including the construction of the
documentation center.
Sustainability
4.        The project put in place a number of essential economic and
financial management tools, which helped produce positive results, e.g., in
the areas of external debt monitoring and public investment programming
(para. 17). However, most of these activities still require complementary
reforms in order to be more effective, for instance, budgetary system
reforms and the linking of the investment budget with the recurrent budget.
The sustainability of project activities is in doubt because of the need for
further technical assistance and financing for operating expenditures. The
lack of experience and analytical capacity of the staff in the key minis-
tt'i:s and the shortage of budgetary resources continue to be serious con-
str-ints to the improvement of economic management (para. 18).
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.        Key lessons learned during project implementation were:   i) the
importance of a genuine interest and commitment of the Government to improve
economic management; (ii) from the Bank's side, avoiding the temptation to
let urgent short-term needs of the structural adjustment program outweigh
the more difficult task of designing long-term institution-building mea-
sures; (iii) the need for an a&reed-upon detailed training program from the
outset, based upon identified needs and the training policy of the institu-
tions concerned, and which would include, inter alia, details on type of
training required, selection criteria of candidates (paras. 20(i), 22); (iv)
the possibility of putting in place a monitoring system to trace the bene-
ficiaries of the training program (para. 22); (v) the importance of clearly
defining the responsibilities of the Project Management Unit, particularly
its managerial functions, and of keeping its head as independent as possible
from political pressures (para. 22); (vi) the necessity of including tech-
nical Headquarters staff in the supervision of such a project, even if the
overall supervision responsibility of the project rests with the Resident
Mission (para. 20(ii)); (vii) the limiting or close monitoring of the use of
unallocated funds to ensure that Government requests are in keeping with the
priorities of the project; and (viii) the need to minimize the financing of
recurrent costs to the extent possible (para. 20 (iv)).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1493-NIR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prolect Identity
Project Name              Economic and Financial Improvement Project
Credit No.                1493-NIR
Date of Credit
Effectiveness           November 6, 1984
Completion Date           October 31, 1990
Closing Date              October 31, 1990
IDA Credit                SDR 11 million (US$11.7 million equivalent)
IDA Credit, disbursed    US$13.7 million
IDA Credit, cancelled    US$0.01 million
RVP Unit                  Africa
Country                   Niger
Sector                    Economic Management
Subsector                 Plan and Finance
B. Project Background
1.       Following the economic boom of the late 1970's, Niger started
facing a serious economic and financial crisis with the drastic fall of
uranium prices and consequently slower GDP growth than the preceding decade.
Public spending, however, did not slow down concomitantly with the gradual
decline in public revenues. The large finiancial losses of public enter-
prises, resulting from weak management and inappropriate policies and
regulations, added to the public deficit. Moreover, even as the current
account deficit was growing, the Government continued to implement its Five-
Year Development Plan, thus forcing it to borrow extensively abroad and
accumulate a heavy foreign debt, half of it on commercial terms. By 1983,
debt service obligations represented 46 percent of Niger's exports of goods
and services.
2.       In light of the deteriorating ecoxiomic outlook, the Government of
Niger started discussions with the IMF and the World Bank on an adjustment
program and requested technical assistance from the Bank for the Ministries
of Plan and Finance for the preparation of a stabilization program and the
elaboration of a medium-term adjustment program. Because of the urgency of
launching an adjustment program and the need to have strong economic and
financial institutions in place, the Bank reacted quickly to this request
and reoriented its proposed technical assistance project for the Ministry of
Planning toward meeting the immediate needs of SAL preparation and longer-
term institutional issues in the two key economic ministries.
3.       In the beginning of project implementation, the strong commitment
of the Government was instrumental in starting the process towards strength-



-2-
ening the economic and financial analytical capability of the two minis-
tries, particularly in a number of key areas, such as external debt manage-
ment, fiscal and customs administration, public investment programming and
the public enterprise sector. Several of the studies financed under the
project were useful in the preparat4on of the structural adjustment program.
Mid-way through project implementation, however, the death of the President,
a strong supporter of the sd' lztent effort, and the overall difficulties of
implementing the adjustment p.Dgram weakened the Government's commitment to
the project at the highest level. This became clearly apparent with the
less than favorable implementation of the training component of the project.
C. Proiect Objectives and Descriptior
4.       Project Ob1ectives.  The key objectives of the project were to:
(i) help the Government design a consolidation program 1/ for the short
term and a structural adjustment program for the medium term; and (ii)
strengthXn the economic and financial managemer.t capabilities of the Minis-
tries of Plan and Finance.
5.       Proiect Components.  The five-year project was distributed as
follows (ex,luding project administration):
(i) economic studies mainly related to the structural adjustment pro-
gram (21%);
(ii) institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Plan 4n the areas of
public investment programming and statistical analysis and of the
Ministif of Finance in the areas of fiscal management, external
debt management and financial planning (38%);
(iii) a two-phased training program with the first phase intended to
improve the existing skills of statistical assistants and mid-level
and high-level staff of the two ministries; and the second phase to
establish short-term training programs in economic and financial
management for the two ministries and technical ministries in order
to upgrade skills (8%); and
(iv) additional studies and technical assistance to be identified during
project implementation (28%).
D. Project D'?sign and Organization
6.       The project was originally conceived in mid-1981, with the aim of
creating a permanent national capability to prepare and execute development
projects. In light of the rapidly declining economic conditions of the
early 1980's and the urgent need to meet short-term data and analytical
i/ The consolidation program included a review of the public investment
program and definition of a three-year investment program; a review
of the financial situation, particularly external public debt
management; and a review of the parastatal sector (the economic and
financial rehabilitation program for this sector was later assumed
by the Public Enterprise Sector Project).



- 3 -
requiremnents of the adjustment program, the Government requested a redesign
of the project to meet these needs, and appraisal took place in March 1983.
Although the timing and shift in focus of the project were appropriate, the
attention given to the short-term requirements may have sacrificed the
design of the longer-term and more difficult institution-building aspects.
In fact, the Bank decided to forego project negotiations in order to speed
up loan processing.
In general, the project rightly limited its scope to key institu-
;ions and areas in economic and financial management. However, the design
and organization of the project had the following negative points: (i) the
studies component, virtually half the project, was too large in relation to
national capacity to undertake thei or absorb the results; (ii) the traininlg
component was not clearly defined before project implementation; (iii) the
additional technical assistance component, supplemented by a large unallo-
cated amount, although providing a certain amount of flexibility during
proJect implementation, was too vague and easily became a slush fund to
finance activities not directly related to the original project objectives;
and (iv) the location of the Project Unit in the Ministry of Plan and the
appointment of a public official not relieved of his other responsibilities
(see para. 21) as the head of the Unit limited the time he could devote to
the project, and may have reduced the independence And objectivity of
decision-making of the Unit.
8.       In 1987, IDA agreed to amend the Credit Agreement in order to add a
civil works component to the project, namely the construction of a documen-
tation center in the Ministry of Plan and the extension of the computer
center in the Ministry of Finance.
E. Project Implementation
9.       Project implementation progressed quite quickly up to the fourth
year of the project, and, in fact, project management and the task manager
believed that funds would be exhausted before the completion date. In
reality, a small amount of the credit was cancele' even after delays in the
civil works component required a six-month extension of the closing date.
This component met considerable delays largely due to the generally slow
local procedures in awarding bids and signing contracts (e.g., it took 18
months from the selection of the contractor to signing the contract for the
computer center) and conflicts of interest in selecting contractors. LCB or
local shopping of equipment purchases took an average of four to six months.
Other factors which adversely affected project implementation were:
(i) the reluctance of the Authorities to elaborate and finally adhere
to a detailed training program for the two ministries. The
training program for the Ministry of Plan was launched nearly thre_
years after credit effectiveness and that of the Ministry of
Finance nearly four years. It should be noted, however, that,
despite the lack of an agreed-upon program, training of statistical



4-
assistants cid take place throughout the life of the project.2/
The training of higher-level staff (ten four-year scholarships
abroad) never materialized because of diffioulties in releasing
these officials from their normal responsibilities;
(ii) the cumbersome administrative procedures of the UNDTCD (the UN
Development and Technical Cooperation Department) which had pre-
pared the statistical component in the Ministry of Plan and was
slated beiore project approval to provide technical assistance and
on-the-job training to the Statistical Department of the Ministry
of Plan. Nearly two years after credit effectiveness the Govern-
ment and the Bank agreed to break contact with the DTCD and allow
the Project Management Unit to manage this activity with the tech-
nical cooperation of INSEE (the French statistical institute) and;
(iii) the civil service reform study proved ineffective in addressing key
issues (consultants did not do a thorough job), such as over-
staffing and the discrepancy between budget figures and personnel
files, which at the time were essential elements for the prepara-
tion of the IMF Structural Adjustment Facility. In fact, another
consultant (financed under another project) had to be hired to fill
these gaps.
10.      Attempts to simplify administrative procedures, which adversely
affected equipnFnt purchases and construction contracts, were addressed
under tha structr.ial adjustment program and have had some success, but this
is an area which requires codttinued monitoring. In retrospect, the delays
experienced by the statistical component could have been reduced or averted
by expanding the search for consultant services and not relying solely on
the services of DTCD, which is known for its heavy bureaucratic procedures
and long recruitment delays. The training program, probably the least
satisfactorily-implemented component of the project, should have been better
defined and agreed upon at negotiations, nonetheless allowing a margin of
flexibility to adopt to changing circumstances (para 22). In the super-
vision reports, the overall status of the project was rated "1", except in
1988 and 1989 when the problems with the training component and other
implementation delays pushed the rating down to "2".
11.      Proiect Risks.  Two main risks were identified at the time of
appraisal, namely, project sustainability and the high turnover and mobility
of the civil service. Despite the modest success in putting in place
certain economic management systems, project sustainability remains a true
concern (section G). The availability of budgetary resources and experi-
enced staff is an important, but doubtful, factor in determining the contin-
uation of project activities. Since a monitoring system for tracking the
post-training careers of the training participants does not exist, it is
difficult to state whether the project's requirement to keep staff on board
for a determined time after their training has been effective. However,
/ Nearly 200 persons received statistical training, of which 52 as
computer programmers (through the baccalaureate), 64 as "adjoints
techniques" (with about 12 years of schooling), and 83 as "agents
techniques" (with up to 10 years of schooling).



- 5 -
this perceived risk did not prove relevant since employment in the civil
service with respect to job security and salary levels has remained competi-
tive vis-a-vis the private sector.
12.      Unforeseen Factors Affecting Project Implementation.  The rapid
deterioration in Niger's budgetary situation led to frequent requests for
the use of project resources to cover operating expenditures (principally
supplies and maintenance) and the restoration of offices. As mentioned
above, the civil works component was introduced to the project midway
through implementation and led to significant delays (see para. 9). The
lack of standardization of computer equipment led to compatibility problems
across different services and thus compromised possible efficiency gains
(e.g., the Ministry of Plan is equipped with IBM, while the Ministry of
Finance with BULL). In tddition, salary supplements that were originally
meant only for training officers were extended to support staff of the
working groups in charge of supervising SAL studies, a practice which was
ultimately stopped by the Bank for all of its projects.
13.      Actions or Decisions Taken or not Taken which Affected Project
Implementation.  The Bank's agreement to construct a documentation cel.er
and expand the computer center in the Ministry of Finance delayed the
closing of the project. Moreover, the contribution of the documentation
center to institution-building is questionable. The Bank's decision to
reject all proposals for salary bonuses in its projects came too late for
this operation, but was a positive one.
F.  Major Results of the Project
14.      Globally the project objectives were met.  As would be expected,
the short-term objectives (the preparation of the consolidation program and
the structural adjustment program) were more successful than the longer-term
objectives of institutional reform. This result was mainly due to the fact
that the achievement of the short-term objectives was closely linked to the
mobilization of financial resources from an IMF program and SAL.
15.      Impact of proiect.  Overall the project impact was mixed, but with
important immediate results. On the positive side, some long-term benefits
were obtained: (i) an external debt management system was put in place;
(ii) the fiscal and customs administrations were computerized, simplifying
economic analysis and improving the effectiveness of the tax administration;
(iii) the methodology to prepare a three-year rolling public investment
program was introduced and adopted in the Ministry of Plan during project
preparation, and, despite its deficiencies, has made some contribution in
centralizing formally-dispersed data on investments; and (iv) the quality of
statistical data produced by the Statistics Division of the Ministry of Plan
improved significantly and general economic indicators are being published
on a regular basis. As to the studies component, the diagnostics of the
public enterprises proved valuable to the action program of the Bank-
financed adjustment operation for the public enterprise sector. The recom-
mendations of the cost-recovery study contributed to the introduction of a
num.ber of measures in the livestock sector and prompted the Government in
shifting to a grassroots approach in the design of cost-recovery mechanisms
for the health sector. The industrial incentives study recommended a number



-6-
of actions related to tariff reform, investment code modifications and
simplification of administrative procedures which were adopted.
16.      On the negative side, the study on the civil service reform proved
costly and useless (see para. 9). The recurrent costs study proved ineffec-
tive in its approach for estimating the recurrent costs of the PIP and
incomplete in coverage. The results of the training component are, at best,
negative because the lack of a well-defined program resulted in a free-for-
all approach, wherein all staff of the ministries became eligible, and more
often than not general training abroad was accepted instead of training
needs related to the candidate's job functions or on-the-job training.
G. Project Sustainability
17.      Initially, the improvement of the fiscal administration resulted in
modest increases in tax and customs revenues, but this was not accompanied
by reforms in budgetary structures and procedures aimed at rationalizing
resource allocation and at strengthening expenditure control. The computer-
ized debt management system has allowed better monitoring of Niger's debt
servicing capability and facilitated preparation of Paris Club re-
schedulings. It should be noted, however, that this has been in great part
due to substantial contributions of two experts (IMF and French Coopera-
tion), both of whom had resided in Niger for some time. Some doubt remains
as to the adequacy of the training provided to local staff to carry out this
work. Moreover, the debt system needs to be integrated into the country's
economic and financial projection exercise. On the economic planning side,
the programming of public investments is continuing, but on a mechanical
basis with little regard to the reliability of data. The programming system
requires particular improvemant in linking the investment budget with the
recurrent budget and in coordinating programming activities with the tech-
nical ministries. The objectives and strategies of the Five-YeL.r Develop-
ment Plan (1987-91), produced with significant technical assistance, were
not reflected in project selection and programming. The economic indicators
generated by the Ministry of Plan do not yet form the basis of macroeconomic
policy. Thus the project did not fully meet its objective of improving the
plar.ning capabilities of the Ministry of Planning or providing policy-making
tools to Government.
18.      Given the country's tight budgetary situation, it is doubtful
whether the continuation of these activities can be sustained without
continued technical assistance and support to cover operating expenditures.
Moreover, despite the number of staft trained under the project, the bene-
ficiary ministries continue to be plagued with inexperienced staff with weak
analytical skills and data processing capabilities. A number of bilateral
donors are providing technical assistance support to the ministries of Plan
and Finance in the areas supported by the project. However, it is important
that these assistants not substitute for civil servants who should be
performing the everyday activities of the ministries or for Nigerian staff
implementing development projects, as in the past. Rather, their role
should be to contribute to strengthening the technical and analytical
capabilities of local institutions through supervision of tasks and training
of staff.



-7-
H. Bank Performance
19.      Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  The decision to give supervisory
responsibility of the project to the Bank's Resident Representative in 1986
ensured closer monitoring and quicker resolutions to implementation prob-
lems, particularly budgetary issues. However, some shortcomings of this
decentralization were evident: (i) too little technical support from
Headquarters staff during the official biannual supervision missions held by
the Resident Representative and his staff. Despite the Resident Mission's
requests, only one supervision mission, out of nine, included Bank staff
from other disciplines/sectors; (ii) the constant demands on Resident
Mission staff preclude adequate supervision of time-consuming technical
assistance projects, thus reinforcing the need for greater Headquarters
support; and (iii) the Resident Mission's inevitable problem of being
brought into the day-to-day management of the project can easily divert it
from addressing broader project issues.
20.      Lessons Learned.  The main lessons learned during project implemen-
tation were:
(i) the need for a detailed training program to be agreed before credit
effectiveness and to be reviewed periodically (para. 22);
(ii) the importance of including Headquarters staff with specific sec-
toral expertise in at least one supervision mission per year, even
when supervision remains the main responsibility of the Resident
Mission;
(iii) the necessity of limiting, or, at least closely monitoring unallo-
cated funds and loosely-defined components (para. 7) to ensure that
Government requests are in keeping with the priorities of the
project and to prevent it from becoming a slush fund, for activi-
ties only vaguely related to project objectives;
(iv) the need to minimize to the extent possible the financing of recur-
rent costs;
(v) the importance of introducing systems and methods that are ap-
plicable within the context of the country. For example, although
the "twinning" approach (i.e., the recruitment of ADETEF experts,
experienced French civil servants in the fiscal and budgetary
areas, at minimal cost, and for short-term duration), may have
seemed like a good idea, in the end their contribution often proved
complicated and unsustainable without continued assistance, notably
in the budgetary management system. The mixed success of the
twinning approach in Niger suggests that more clearly defined terms
of reference are needed for the technical assistants and that
training of counterpart staff in the civil service be monitored
closely (para. 24); and
(vi) in the case of operations managed by Resident Mission staff, the
need to communicate fully with headquarters, ensuring especially
that critical documentation reaches headquarters (para. 26).



I. Borrower Performance
21.      Malor strengths and weaknesses.  The Borrower's initial commitment
to the project was strong and allowed satisfactory progress in the review of
public investment programming and the diagnostics of a number of public
enterprises. Despite this commitment, the Inter-Ministerial Committee, set
up to ensure the coordination and implementation of the project, met only
twice during the course of the project and proved ineffective, mainly
because it was too big (11 members) and the competence of the participants
(often representatives of the official members) was less than desirable.
Political pressures were, however, felt quite strongly in two areas: the
Project Management Unit and the training program. The hierarchical position
of the Project Unit within the Directorate of the Ministry of Planning (and
at times under the control of the Minister himself) weakened the objectivity
of decision-making of the Unit and often undercut its managerial role. The
Unit came to be seen as a coordinating and administrative body who merely
paid bills. Moreover, the appointment of a deputy director of the Ministry
of Planning as the Director of the Unit was unsatisfactory as he only
devoted part of his time to the Unit, thus de facto delegating his functions
to the deputy director of the Unit, an expatriate recruited under the
project. A second weakness was the frequent non-respect of the agreed-upon
training programs, a sore point throughout project implementation. The ad
hoe approach to training added an unnecessary burden on the Project Unit and
in some cases, added little to the overall objectives of the project. In
fact, the Bank was ultimately forced to suspend all scholarships abroad.
From the legal perspective, the Borrower complied with all Credit covenants,
except for those related to: (i) training (3.03 (i) and (ii) in the Credit
Agreement); (ii) the coordination of the project with other technical
assistance projects in the ministries of Plan and Finance (3.04); (iii) the
agreement with an agreed-upon organization to strengthen the Statistical
Department of the Ministry of Plan (3.05 (a)); and (iv) the submission of a
completion report (3.07 (d)).
22.      Lessons Learned.  The most important element required for a suc-
cessful project of this kind is the genuine interest and commitment of the
Government to improve economic management. In order to strengthen the
position of the Project Unit, it is essential that the responsibilities,
particularly the managerial ones, of the Project Unit be spelled out clearly
in the beginning of project implementation and that the head of the Project
Unit be appointed on a full-time basis and be as independent as possible
from political intervention. Project design should ensure, however, that
the Project Unit not develop as a totally autonomous unit, but carry out its
institutional development functions within the relevant institution, so as
to provide continuity once the project is completed. Training programs
should be rigorously defined before credit effectiveness and be agreed upon
by the Government, the Project Management Unit and the Bank, with changes
allowed after review and only under clearly-justifiable circumstances. It
might be necessary to review the programs on an annual basis. To the extent
possible, the programs should be based on the identified needs and training
policy of the institutions concerned, and should include details on type of
training required, duration, selection criteria of candidates, identifica-
tion of training institutions, and, if possible, the profiles of potential
candidates and beneficiaries of scholarships. Given that the supervision of
a training program can be time-consuming, it might be advisable to have a



-9-
special sub-unit in the Project Unit to monitor them closely, particularly
for the tracking of training participants. Finally, when a large amount of
computerization is provided in a project, it is highly advisable that the
needs of the beneficiaries be assessed early on, so that standard equipment
can be identified, with a view to not only minimizing costs but also en-
suring compatibility among different departments.
J. Project Relationships
23.      Impact of Relationships on Proiect Implementation.  The good
working relationships between the Resident Mission, Project Unit and the
Borrower facilitated project supervision and was instrumental in ad-
dressing/resolving a number of touchy issues, such as the policy on salary
supplements, the elaboration of training programs, the selection of training
participants, and procurement procedures. On the other hand, the distribu-
tion of supervisory responsibilities between Headquarters staff and the
Resident Mission was not always clear and the frequent changes in Head-
quarters staff supervising the project did not help (para. 20 (ii)).
K. Consulting Services
24.      Role. Performance Level and Implications of Involvement.  Two
permanent experts were assigned to the Ministry of Plan. One was recruited
as advisor to the Director of the Project Evaluation and Programming Depart-
ment, but became de facto advisor to the Minister and was highly respected
for his contribution to the preparation of the structural adjustment pro-
gram, participation in Bank/IMF missions, and general operations of the
ministry. In fact, his contract was renewed under the Bank's public enter-
prise project. As mentioned above, the second expert was the deputy direc-
tor of the Project Management Unit throughout project implementation and
succeeded in setting up reliable accounting and administrative procedures in
the Unit. Despite their positive contributions, this type of technical
assistance is costly and unsustainable. The ADETEF experts obtained a high
level of respect from their Nigerian counterparts and successfully put in
place computerized systems for external debt, fiscal management and customs
administration. However, they provided little on-the-job training, which
might explain the limited lasting effect of their involvement (para.20(v)).
The training programs, elaborated by SEDES and ADETEF experts for the
ministries of Plan and Finance, respectively, were not considered of high
quality, which may have contributed to the poor implementation of the
training component. It should be noted that no annual performance evalua-
tion of long-term consultants was prepared either by the Government or the
Project Management Unit. The impact of the main economic studies conducted
under the project are described in paragraphs 15 and 16.
L. Prolect Documentation and Data
25.      Adequacy of President's Report and Malor Working Papers.  The
President's Report and legal agreements for the project were adequate.
However, it would have been useful to have a comprehensive implementation
document, outlining the project components in greater detail for the Project
Unit and for Bank supervision staff. This document would have been a ready
reference for new staff and served as a base for the introduction of changes
in the project.



- to -
26.      Availability of Relevant Data to PCR Mission.  The last major
supervision mission (November/December 1988) occurred two years prior to the
closing date of the project, during which there was considerable discussion
of a second Technical Assistance Project very much along the same lines as
the first. The Borrower and the Bank could ultimately not agree on the
design and composition of the second project and all preparation ceased.
This break in discussion led to a deterioration in the dialogue between the
Borrower and the Bank during the final stages of project implementation. In
September 1989, the supervisory responsibility of the project was returned
to Headquarters. A problem encountered during the preparation of the PCR
was the lack or incompleteness of important documents, such as terms of
reference, reviews of studies, progress reports, consultants' contracts and
anrual budgets, in the Central Files. This gap in the flow of documentation
between Resident Mission and Headquarters should be addressed, especially
for projects that are closely supervised by Resident Missions.



- 11 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related IDA Credite
Credit                                           Date of
Title             Purpose                        Approval      Status        Comments
Cr. 1680-NIR/     To support the first           18 Feb 86     Closed
A-12-NIR          phase of the Government's                    31 Dec 87
Structural        structural adjustment
Adjustment        program; reforms were in
Credit            the ar-as of public
resource management, the
parastatal sector and
agricultural policy.
Cr. 1833-NIR/     To support the extension       2S Jun 87     Ongoing       Closing Date was not extended
A-31-NIR          of the Government's                                        due to slippages in the
Public            adjustment program by                                      implementation of the
Enterprise        deep-ning the reforms in                                   adjustment program.  USS8
Sector            the public enterprise                                      million remains undisbursed.
Adjustm-nt        sector and those in the
Credit            area of public resource
management.
Cr. 1838-NIR      To assist the Government       7 Jul 87      Ongoing       The Ministry of Public
Public            in acquiring the                                           Enterprises (PEs) was
Enterprise        technical and                                              abolished and responsibility
Institutional     administrative capacity                                    for monitoring the PEs was
Development       to formulate and                                            transferred to the Ministries
Project           implement reforms in the                                    of Plan and Finance.  After a
public enterprise sector.                                  difficult period of
transition, project
implementation resumed
satisfactorily.
-----------------------------------------------------__----------------------__-------------------------___



- 12 -
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__
2. Project Timetablo
Date           Date           Date
Item                  Planned        Rovised        A-tual
-  Idontification                    Jan 81            --           Mar 83
- Preparation mission                Mar 81            --             --
- Appraisal mission                  Apr 81          War 83         14 Mar 83
- Negotiations                         --            Sep 83         26 Apr 84
- Board Approval                       --           Dec 83          7 Jun 84
- Signature                            --              --           Jul 84
- Effectiveness                      16 Oct 84       12 Nov 84      8 Nov 84
- Project Completlon                 Oct 89            --           81 Oct 90
-  Credit Closing                    30 Apr 90       31 Oct 90      31 Oct 90
Comments
Identification. The dates cited are those of the final draft and final
versions of tho Project Brief.
Negotiations. The Bank and the Government decided not to hold formal
negotiations in order to speed loan processing and to start tho studies for
SAL preparation quickly. Negotiations were declared completed on April 28,
1984.
Credit Closing. The last withdrawal application was paid volue July 4,
1990.



- 13 -
3. Credit Disbursements
FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91
Appraisal Estimate       1.60  2.40   2.90  2.20   1.50  1.10
Actual                   1.68  1.61   2.37  3.72  3.16  1.13    0.04
Actual as % of Estimate   105   67    81   169   210   102
Date of Final Disbursement: July 1990
Cred i t Di sbursernents
USD millions
3. 0
2..0
v . a
0.0
PrY35      rY6         rY87        rYse        ,Y89       FY90       FY91.
Disbursesents as estimated at Appraisal
__ Actual disbursements



- 14 -
4.   Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal                      Actual /1
Estimate
Item                                 (USS million)                   (USS million)
1. Project Managremnt Unit                                  0.51
2. Economic Studies
-Public Investment and Financial                           0.09
Situation Study
- Structural Adjustment Studi-e                             1.74
- Projoct Appraisal Studies                                0.26
3. rnstitution-building
Ministry of Plan                                         1.26
Ministry of Finance                                      2.58
4. Training                                                  0.79
6. Provision for Additional Studies
and Tochnical Assistance                                 2.79
BASE COSr                                                    9.98
Physical Contingencies                                   0.60
PriceC Contingencies                                     2.12
----------------------------------------------------------__-----------------__--------------------
TOT'L                                                       12.80
/1 Unavailable
-----------------_-----------.--------------------------------0_-------------__-------_------------



- 15 -
4.   Project Financing
Planned /1    Rovised /2       Final
Source                  ----    -    (USs million) ------------
IDA Expenditure
Categorrice
1. Consultants and exp*rts                   6.37          4.68        6.11
2. Training and fallorships                  0.61          1.60        1.29
3. Vehiclos and equipment                    1.19          1.80        1.86
4. Supplomental salaries for                 0.23          0.32 /3     0.09
training officaer
5. Office rent                               0.06          1.60        1.47
6. Ronovation of offieco undor                             O.E9        1.05
Parts C.4 and 0.5 of the
Project, and civil works ftor
Documentation Conter
7. Initial deposit to the                    0.10          0.27
Sp-cial Account
8. Rofunding of Project                      1.00          0.83        0.83
preparation advance
9. Unallocated                               3.16          0.23
Undisbureed/Cancollation                                            0.01
TOTAL IDA             11.70         11.70       11.70
Domestic                                     0.90          0.92        0.90
TOTAL                 12.60         12.00       12.60
/1 Allocations at the time of nogotiations
/2 Amendment of March 11, 1987. The Credit agreement was amended four times
ovor the life of the project.
/3 Category amonded to include the salary of an accountant end supplemental
salaries for support staff.
-- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- --    - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -



- 16 -
s. Status of Covonantu                                                                    pag  I
_____------- -_--_----_--- -------_-_______
Dordl;no for
Section /a     Covenrnt                                  Compliance        Status
3.02  (a)      The Borrower shall csrry out the              none          In compliance,
projoct in conformity with appropriate
pract ces.
3.01 (b)       The Minister of Plrn shall bo in charge      nono            In compliance.
of the administrative coordination of
the Project and to this effect shall
operate the Project Management Unit
(PuU) and the Interminiaterial
Coordination Comittoe.
3.02 (a)       The Borrower shall employ consultants        I Jan 86       In compliance.
in accordance with principles and                           Project
procedures satisfactory to IDA.               *dministrator
recruited Aug 83;
deputy director
recruited Oct 84.
3.02 (b)       The Borrower shall cooperate fully with      none            In compliance.
said consultants and make available to
them information, staff, and facilities
useful to successful execution of the
Project.
3.02 (c)       The Borrower shall ossign qualifiod          mone            In compliance.
staff to work with consultonts to carry
out the Project.
3.03           (i) Staff trained for at least 8 months      none            Not in compliance.
shall be ossigned to the same
Ministries for at leaSt one yoer after
completing thoir training.
(ii) Staff trained for more than 8           none           Not In compliance.
months shall be assigned to tho same
Ministries for at least throe years
after completing their training.
3.04           The Borrower shall through the PMU           none            Not in complionce.
ensure coordination between tho Project
and other TA programs in the Ministrios
of Plan and Finance.
3.06 (a)       Tho Borrower shall enter into an             31 Oct 84       In compliance.
agreement with an organization                              Although arrangement
accoptablo to IDA to strongthon the                         with UNDTCD did not
Statistical Departmont of tho Ministry                      work out, agreement
of Plan.                                                    was reached for
training component
with Contre National
d'Informatique do
Tunis and ENSEA of
Abidjan.
3.05 (b)       The Borrower shall not modify the above      none            In compliance.
agreement or the agrooment with ADETEF
unloss IDA agrees.
/a Refers to section in Development Credit Agreoment
------------------_----------------------------------------__---------------__---------------



- 17 -
-----------_----------------------------------------___-____---------------------__-________-__
5.  Status of Covenant.                                                                    page 2
___________________
I ______--------*----- -----------------^---- ----------------------------------- --_______--------
Deadlino for
Section /a     Covenant                                   Compl;nce        Status
3.06 (a)       The Borrowor shall insure the imported        none           In compliance.
goods financed by the Credit.
3.08 (b)       The Borrower shall cause all goods and        none           In compliance.
services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusivoly
for tho purposes of the Project.
3.07 (a)       The Borrower shall furnish to IDA             none           In compliance.
plans, specifications, reports and
contract documents for the Project.
3.07 (b)       The Borrower shall record and monitor         quarterly      In compliance.
progress of the Project, allow for IDA
to visit the facilitioes and furnish
information to IDA on a quarterly basis.
3.07 (d)       The Borrower shall prepare a completion       30 Apr 91      Not in compliance.
report and furnish it to IDA no later
than six months aft-r the Closing Date.
4.01 (a)       The Borrower shall maintain separate          none            In compliance.
accounts in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices.
4.01 (b)       The Borrower shall maintain separate          none            In compliance.
sccounts reflecting expenditures on the
basis of statements of expendituro,
retain all records for one year after
the Closing Date and and onable IDA to
examine such records.
4.01 (c)       The Borrowor shall have above accounts        30 Apr 91       Five audit missions
auditod in accordance with appropriate       annually        were undertaken
auditing principles and furnish the                          covering 83/86,
report to IDA no later than six months                       86/86, 86/87,
after each such year.                                        87/88, and 98/89.
Reports were
receivod with
alight (1-2 month)
delays. Laost nine
months of lroject
life have not been
audited.
4.02           The Borrower shall provide the                none            In compliance.
rosources required for all equipment
and facilities ;nclud-d in the Project
to be maintained in accordance with
appropriate administrative and
financial practices.
/a Refers to section in Development Credit Agreemont
------------------------------------------------------------_.--------------__---_------------



6. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of
Project Cycle                       1980           1981           1982            1983           1984            1986           1986           1987           1988           1989            1990           1991    TOTAL
_____________                       -- --          ----           --_ -- --                      - -  ---             --           ---            -_- -_--_-                                                     -         -  -
Preparation                               3.4           42.7             0.3          20.2                                                                                                                                     66.6
Appraisal                                               10.4            14.2          26.2            29.7                                                                                                                     86.6
Nogotiations                                                                                            4.3                                                                                                                      4.3
Supervision                                                                             0.3                          23.1             8.6            8.6            9.4            6.0             S.2            0.8           59.7
Other /1                                                                                                                                             0.6                                                          0.1            0.7
TOTAL             3.4           63.1           14.6            46.7           34.0           23.1             8.6            7.2             9.4            8.0            6.2            0.7         211.8
/1 Includes PAD, PCR
----    ---    ---    ---    ---    ---    ----    ---    ---    ---    ---   ---    ---    ----     ---   ----_         ---    --_----        ---    --_                                          _-__-_-- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- ---



- 19 -
S. Use of Bank Rasoureoo
_____________________
B. Wissions
Wonth/  Numbor of Spocialization  Days in  fLrformance Rating
Maqsion        Yoar    Persona  Reprosented /a  Field /b   by Activity /c
Identification     Mar 81      7     LO,RR,E,FA,2TS,   17
Preparstion        Nov 82       2     E,RR               7
Preparation        Feb 83       1    PSS               1l
Appraisal          Mar 83       4     E,RR,TS,PSS       21
Post-spptaisal     Jul 83       1     E                 is
TOTAL STAFF WEEKS     48
A   M   D    0
Supervision        Oct 84       3     E,PS,TS           13          1   1   1    1
Suporvision        May 86       1    E                   9          1   1   1    1
Supervision /d     Nov 86       1    RR                  6          1   1   1    1
Sup-rvision        Jon 86       1     RR                 6          1   1   1    1
Supervision        Oct 88       1    RR                  6          1   1   1    1
Supervision        May 87       1     RR                 6          1   1   1    1
Suporvision        Oct 87       1     00                 6          1   1   2    1
Supervision        Apr 88       3     RR,CO,OA           6           1   1   2    1
Supervision        Nov 88       1     RR                 6           1   1   2    2
Suporvision        Doc 88       I     PSS               20
Supervision        Jun 89       1     RR                 6           1   1   2    2
TOTAL STAFF WEEKS     24 /d
/a E=Economist, LO=Loan Officer, RR=Resident Reprosentative, FA3Financial Analyst,
TS=Training Speciallst, PSS=Public Sector Specialist, CO=Country Officer,
O0=Operations Officer-resident mission, OAzOperationc Analyst
/b For sector staff, may include work on other tasks
/c A=Available funds, M=Project management, Ou-evelopment impact, OsOverall status
/d Resident Ropreosntative takes over as Task Manager of Project. More involvement
with the PMU on a day-to-day basis results in less SW recorded )n supervision
missions.
-------------------------------------------------------__--------------------__-----



- 20 -
7. Major Studies
Impact of
Study                        Purpose              Status                Study
1. Parastatal sector               Diagnostic of public           completed   Some Pes rehabilitated,
enterprises                              others liquidated
2. Pricing system                   Study of measures to          complotod  Phased introduction of price
liberalize priceo                        lib-ralization
3. Cross debts                      Inventory of cross debts      completed   Sottlement of cross debts
among public enterprises
4. Civil service                    Inventory of government       completed   Government rejected results
personnol; analysis of                   of study.
personnel policy
6. Transport plan                   Inventory of transport        completed   Improved planning for the
infrastructure and                       construction of the
sorvices; quantitative end                transport network
qualitative assessment of
preosent and future noeds
.  Caisse National de Credit        Diagnostic of CNCA            completed   CNCA liquidated
Agricole
7. Cost recovery                    Assessment of possible        completed   Government rejected results:
measures to recover cost of               of study.  In Health *octor;
Government services in                    a grassroots approach to
health, livestock, and                    design cost recovery
education sectors                         measures is underway.
---------------------------------------------------- -----_-----__-----------__---------------.----------



