Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rlu,t N  P-3657-NIR
REPORT AND RECflNENDAT?I(
OF THE
PRESIDENr OF 7HE
INrElRTIONAL DEVELOENT ASSOCIATION
TO T-E
EECUTIVE DIRECTORS
A. .
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 1.0 HELLION
TO TE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR AN
ECMOMIC AND FINAIRIAL XANG-EEN  IMPROVE4ENT PROJBCT
Nay 17, 1984
This doumnt bm a resiited dktdb.lm, and my be used by repiien_t miy i the pIface of
dmir Wcidl dud=es. ls  utaeub my nt ntbzrwise be disdaesd without Wod BDak autmdzatia.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        CFA Franc (CFAZ)
US$1.00         C= AF 430
ClAP 1,000           US$2.33
USS1.00              SDR 0.94
FISCAL TEAM
Government of Niger = October 1 - September 30
A EIAONS AiD ACRONYNS
iADETE?    -  Associatlon pour le D-eveloppement des Echanges en Technologie
Economique et FInanci5re (Association for the Developuent of
Technical Exchange in Economics and Finance)
CCCE      -  Caisse Centrale pour La CooperatIon Economique (French Economic
Cooperation Agency)
CEO      -  Communau-te Economique de 1'Afrique de l'Ouest (Economic
Commnunity of 'test Africa)
ENA        -  Eco.e Nationale d'Administration (National Administration
School)
FAC        -  Fonds d'Aide et de Coop'ration (Fund 'or Aid and Cooperation)
FED        -  Fonds Europeen de D6veloppement (Buropean DeveLopment Fund)
FNI        -  Fonds National d'Investis3ement (National Investmeat Fund)
PiU        -  Project Xanagement Unit
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Project
UIDTCD     -  United Nations Department for Technical Cooperation and
Development
USAID      -  United States Agency for International Development



REPUBLIC OF NIGER          FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Niger
Beneficiary:       Ministries of Plan, Finance, and Commerce and
Transportation
Amount:            SDR 11.0 Million (US$11.7 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:     The proposed five-year project will support:  (a) economic
and financial studies to define a short-term consolidation
prcgram and a medium-term structural reform program for
Niger; and (b) institutional development to improve the
financial and economic planning and management capabilities
of the Ministries of Plan and Finance, which will hare the
prime responsibility for implementing these adjustment
programs.
Studies include: (a) a review of the public investment
program, the public debt and the government financial
situation; (b) a diagnostic study of the parastatal sector
and follow-up studies to define rehabilitation programs for
selected public enterpeises; and (c) macroeconomic and
sectoral studies to define a structural adjustment program.
Institutional-development assistance will: (a) strengthen
the Statistical and the Public Investment Departments of
the Ministry cf Plan, (b) establish a new Financial
Planning Department and strengthen the Public Debt Depart-
ment and the Fiscal Management Administration of the
Ministry of Finance; and (c) provide training to improve
staffing of key departments of the two ministries.
Project Benefits   Benefits expected from the project are two-fold.  First,
and Risks:      the project will lead to further definition of a short-term
financial stabilization program being supported by the IMF,
and to a structural adjustment program aimed at leading the
economy toward a more sustainable long-term economic growth
path. Second, the project will improve the economic and
finnnc-al management capabilities of key Government
agencies. The project faces two basic risks: sustained
government commitment to the project objectives and
continued technical and financial assistance; and high
staff turnover which might become a constraint an the
implementation of the project. At present, government's
long-term commitment is strong and will be supported by
international cooperation. Training and special conditions
included in the project will effectively reduce the second
risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performan c of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs I/
Local      Foreign        Total
I.   Project Management Unit              36,000        470,000      506,000
II.  Economic Studies                     180,000     1,897,500    2,077,500
- Public Investment and Financial                 (87,500)     (87,500)
Situation study
- Structural Adjustment studies   (180,000)   (1,560,000)  (1,740,000)
- Project Appraisal studies                      (250,000)    (250,000)
III. Institution-building                488,000      3,335,000    3,823,000
- Ministry cf Plan                 (204,000)   (1,055,000)  (1,259,000)
- Ministry of Finance             (284,000)   (2,280,000)  (2,564,000)
IV.  Training                            120,000        665,000      785,000
V.   Provisicn for Additional Studies
and Technical Assistance            286,000      2,500,000    2,786,000
- Base Cost                       1,110,000     8,867,500    9,977,500
- Phy3iCal Contingencies             55,000        443,500      498,500
- Price Contingencies               205,000      1,919,000    2,124,000
Tstal                        1.370,000    11,230,000   12,600,000
Financial Plan
Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                                 470,000    11,230,000   11,700,000
Gcvernment                          900,000              -      900,000
TOTAL                             1,370,000    11,230,000   12,600,000
1/  Project costs are net of taxes.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement
----------------USS Killion--------
FP84/85    FY86   FY87      FY88      FY89      FY90
Annual              1.6 1/      1.4    2.9       2.2       1.5        1.1
Cumulative            -         4.0    6.9       9.1      10.6       11.7
Rate o' Return:   l.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:   N.A.
1/   including US$1.0 million PPF advance.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER FOR
AN ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit for the equivalent of SDR 11.0 million (US$11.7 million equiva-
lent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Niger to help finance a pro-
posed Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled -Economic Memorandum: Niger" (No. 11092-NIR) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. An economic mission
visited Niger in July 1983 in connection with an IMF Standby mission, and the
main findings of the mission are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
These findings were subsequently updated by a mission in December 1983. Annex
I contains updated country data.
Background
3.       With its 1.27 million km2 of land, Niger is about 2.5 time_ the size
of France. Niger is a landlocked country with its closest access to the sea
about 600 km from its southern border. Nearly 90 percent of the total
population is concentrated in a thin band along the southern border. Only
12 percent of the land is considered arable, and only 2.5 percent is actually
under cultivation. Rainfall is limited (350-750 mm) and often irregular, and
soil fertility is low and declining due to its intensive use. The total
population was estimated at 5.7 million in 1982 and is growing at about 3.1
percent per annum.  Per capita income was estimated at US$310 in 1982.
Niger's social indicators are among the lowest in the world. Life expectancy
at birth, which is only 43 years, is low even by African standards. The adult
literacy rate is only 8 percent and the primary enrollment rate only 23
percent.
4.       Niger belongs to the West African Monetary Union which provides its
members with a common currency (the CFA Franc) fully convertible into French
Francs. The full convertibility of the CFA Franc and the liberal foreign
trade policies pursued by the Monetary Union members have kept the Nigerien
economy very open in the past. This openness was further strengthened by the
very strong trade links that have always existed between Niger and its neigh-
bors, particularly Nigeria as both are members of ECOWAS. Another
particularly important characteristic of the Monetary Union is the strong
discipline imposed over monetary and fiscal policies of the member -ountries,
in return for the guaranteed convertibility of the currency. As is generally
the case in open economies, excessive credit expansion quickly leads to
increased imports, balance of payments deficits, and a loss of foreign
reserves. This being recognized by the Union member countries, their common
Centra_Z Bank is empowered with strong controls over domestic credit ceilings.



5.       Like other Sahelian economies, Niger's is dominated by subsistence
agricultural activities with millet and sorghum accounting for 80 percent of
the cultivated area. Livestock is also an important source of income for a
large segment of the population and is one of the country's major export
commodities. Despite its meager agricultural resource base, Niger has
traditionally been self-sufficient in food production except during the
Sahelian drought in the early 1970s. The discovery of large uranium deposits
in the late sixties, and their subsequent development, propelled the mining
sector into an important position in Niger's economy. The sector is nov the
country's principal foreign exchange earner and an important source of
government revenues.
Economic Develcpment in the Seventies
6.       During the past decade Niger went from a period of despair to a
period of almost unlimited hope for the future. Between 1970 and 1975 Niger
experienced one of the severest and 'Longest droughts of its history. Its
livestock herd was decimated, and food production declined dramatically. At
the height of the drougnt in 1974/75, Niger registered a food grain deficit of
nearly one million tons. Real per capita GDP declined at an average annual
rate of 0.5 percent during the first half of the decade. On the expenditure
side, per capita consumption declined by 6 percent per annum although gross
domestic investment grew at a modest annual rate of 3.2 percent with the help
of increasing foreign aid. Uranium production and expert began in early 1971,
but the impact of the sector on the national economy was only moderate in the
first half of the seventies as prices were stable.
7.       During the second half of the decade, Niger's fortune improved
dramatically. More favorable climatic conditions alloyed an accelerated
recovery of the agricultural sector. With intensive government programs the
Nigerien livestock herd was rapidly reconstituted. Food production steadily
increased and by 1979 Niger was once again self-sufficient and even managed to
show a substantial surplus. Moreover, the uranium sector experienced a boom.
By 1977, uranium exports accounted for 53 percent of total exports of goods
and non-factor services, and that share increased to 70 percent at the end of
the decade. As uranium prices and quantities exported increased rapidly,
Niger's total export receipts from the sector increased from CFAF 12 billion
in 1975 to CFAF 85 billion in 1979. The contribution of the sector to public
revenues followed the same trend. The share of uranium in total government
revenues increased steadily from 18 percent in 1975 to an all time high of
46 percent in 1979. Government uranium revenues grew from CFAF 4 billion to
CFAF 25 billion in the same period. As a result of the good performance of
the agriculture and mining sectors, real GDP grew at an average annual rate of
7.2 percent; per capita consumption grew at an annual rate of 4.5 percent and
gross domestic investment at an average rate of 16.7 percent.
8.       On balance, therefore, Niger's economic performance during the 1970s
was very good, particularly by Sahelian standards. This was due in large part
to the sound economic policies of the Government which encouraged a rational
use of foreign aid and export earnings, and which limited pricing and other
policy distortions that are common among other West African countries.



The Early Eighties and the Uranium Crisis
9.       The decade of the eighties started with serious signs pointing to a
long lasting crisis for the uranium sector. Between 1979 and 1982 real prices
of uranium experts fe'll by more than 50%. Uranium export earnings stagnated
at around CFAF 95 billion and government uranium revenues declined sharply
from CFAF 25 billion in 1979 to CFAF 13 billion in 1982. During the same
three years, agricultural production also deteriorated. Unfavorable climatic
conditions forced Niger once again te supplement its food production by
increasing quantities of grain imports.  Food grain deficits in 1981, 1982 and
1983 reached about 100,000 tons per year. During 1983, in particular, the
country experienced a serious drought. As a result of these developments,
*      real GDP stagnated in 1981 and 1982 and declined by nearly 3% in 1983.
10.      Public Finance.  Unfortunate1y the serious slowdown in economic
activity was not followed by an equal slowdown in Niger's public expendi-
tures.  Tne lack cf clear signals from the uranium market experts left the
Nigerien authorities uncertain about the future of the sector.  Expecting a
quick recovery of uranium prices, the Government continued to implement its
ambiticus Five-Year Development Plan by increasingly relying on foreign
borrowing tc finance public investment expenditures.  It was not until 1982
that acticn was initiated to adjust to the reduced export and revenue
prospects.
11.      As the uranium boom came to an end in 1980, overall Government reve-
nues stagnated in 1981 and 1982 at a level of CFAF 75 billion and even de-
clined in 1983 tc CFAF 72 billion. Meanwhile, overall Government expenditures
continued to grow rapidly, increasing from CFAF 124 billion in 1979 to CFAF
173 billion in 1982. This was not only the result of the Government's
aggressive investment strategy but also due to the unsatisfactory financial
performance cf the parastatal sector -which had expanded rapidly during the
late 1970s. Poor management and frequently uneconomic government policies and
regu'ations led tc large operating losses in many public enterprises, adding
an additional burden to the government budget. The overall government deficit
increased from CFAF 65 billion iz; 1979 to CFAF 103 billion in 1982, requiring
progressively higher levels of borrowing which, in turn, created a severe
public debt burden.  Public debt service as a percentage of Government
revenues increased from 2% in 1979 to 20% in 1982.
12.      Balance of Payments and Debt.  The heavy investments in equipment and
infrastructure associated with the opening of a second uranium mine and the
-      implementation of a large public investment program resu'lted in increasing
current account deficits for Niger's balance of payments, in particular after
the uranium exports started to stagnate and agricu'ltural imports increased
during 1980-82.  The financing of this growing deficit forced the country to
accumulate a heavy foreign debt which reached CFAF 296 billion in 1983.
13.      Altheugh official development assistance to Niger more than doubled
between 1977 and 1981, nearly 50% of its foreign debt was contracted on
commer3ial terms. As a result, debt service payments increased dramatically
from $9 million in 1977 to $180 million in 1983, equivalent to 11% and 46% of



the country's exports of goods and services, respectively. This ratio is
expected to continue to increase rapidly during the next two years.
Niger's Reaction to the Crisis
14.      Faced with the rapid deterioration of the country's economic and
financial situation, Niger's Head of State instructed his Government in 1982
to 'a) introduce urgent austerity measures in the 1982/83 budget and (b)
prepare a consolidation program for 1983/84 and 1984/85 aimed at restoring
balan-e to the financial situation of the public sector. Subsequently, in
1983, a number of changes in the Government's organizational structure were
made which strengthened the Ministries of Plan and Finance and gave the Prime
Ninister overall responsibility for the economic and financial management of
the country.
15.      A strict austerity program was implemented in 1982/83.  Government
wages and salaries were frozen at the level of the previous year. Some bene-
fits provided to high school students were discontinued, and government
purchases of goods and services were tightly controlled. Most importantly,
public investment expenditures were reduced by 21% and a tighter control on
foreign borrowing was imposed. As a result of these measures, the Government's
overall deficit was stabilized at the previous year's level, despite a 33%
increase in public debt service payments. The measures also had a favorable
effect on the balance of payments by reducing the trade and current account
deficits by 50% and 40%, respectively. however, Niger's economy remained
depressed during 1983 due to the continuing sluggish performance of the
uranium sector and the low level of agricultural production as a result of the
severe drought.
16.      During 1983, the Nigerien Gcvernment prepared, with the assistance of
the World Bank, a two-year consolidation program for the period of 1983-85 to
help the domestic economy adjust further to current financial constraints. The
first phase of this program (1983/84), which is supported by an IMF Standby
Arrangement of SDR 18 million and a CFF of SDR 12 million, calls for a 35%
reduction in the overall government budgetary deficit and a further 25% reduc-
tion in the current account deficit of the balance of payments. To achieve
these objectives, the Government is committed to: (a) implement a fiscal
reform program and improve tax collections; (b) limit the growth of current
expenditures to 5%; (c) initiate measures to stabilize the financial situation
of seven major public enterprises; (d) reduce public investment expenditures
by nearly 40%; and (e) reschedule the public debt due in 1984. The Paris Club
met in November 1983 and approved Niger's request for a rescheduling of its
official debt. The Government is currently preparing for debt rescheduling
negotiations with the country's private creditors later in 1984.
17.      As for the second phase of the consolidation program, the Government
is scheduled to start discussions on a new IMF program for 1984/85 in July.
In addition, it has requested the assistance of the World Bank to formulate a
medium-term program of structural reform to lay a sounder foundation for
economic growth and development in the future.



-5-
Structural Adjustment
18.      The resources needed for the development of Niger -- human and
financial, domestic and foreign, public and private -- are likely to remain
severely constrained duri.ng the remainder of this decade and beyond. Major
changes in domestic policies focused on increasing the efficiency with which
these scarce resources are used are, therefore, critical if a significant
turnaround in Niger's growth prospects is to be achieved. Broadly, this
involves a reduction of distortions in the structure of economic incentives in
the country as well as imprevement in the allocation of public resources.
19.      The structure of prices in Niger is considerably less distorted than
in many of its neighboring countries because of the relative openess of the
economy.  Prices of agricultural inputs and outputs, for example, are broadly
in line with world markets as are energy prices. However, the overall incen-
tives structure has favored a rapid expansion of the public sector to the
detriment of private initiative. A large number of parastatals have been
established to enable the Government to intervene directly in the domestic
economy. But the efficiency of the public enterprises has generally been low.
In agriculture, in particular, parastatal organizations have become both
highly costly and inefficient in providing input supply services and marketing
outlets to farmers so making greater private sector involvement necessary if
the sector is to fulfill its leading role in the country's long-term
development. Similar problems exist in other key sectors of the economy. A
major reform of the parastatal sector, its policies, and its institutional
framework is thus an important component of the structural adjustment program.
20.      In addition, Niger's current industrial incentives system has
considerable shortcomings. Industrial promotion policies, together with the
trade regime, have favored activities which are not necessarily in line with
the comparative advantage of the country and have resulted in an inefficient
use of capital and only limited employment opportunities. Also, the
allocation and administration of industrial incentives has, de facto,
discriminated against small- and medium-scale industry development and have
given the Government excessive control over private investment decisions.
21.      In general, the Government will need to focus its scarce financial
resources and administrative capacity on only a limited and selective set of
production growth and poverty alleviation problems for which market forces
alone would be insufficient. Moreover, much more efficient allocation of
budgetary resources will need to be achieved througlh improved planning/
programming procedures to ensure that existing development projects are more
fully utilized and maintained, and that new investments are only commenced
when they are of the highest priority. Besides taxation, public resource
mobilization must also be improved through the introduction of new cost
recovery mechanisms. Finally, the Government will need to restructure its
large accumulated debt, which threatens to jeopardize the country's future
economic and social development.
22.      The Government of Niger fully recognizes the need for a program of
structural reform if the country is to have any hope of maintaining a minimum
level of development momentum. However, the formulation and implementation of



- 6 -
the necessary policy changes will take considerable time and will require high
levels of external technical and financial assistance. The Economic and
Financial Management Improvement Project, which is outlined in detail in Part
IV of this report, constitutes a first step in this process. Besides the
strengthening of country's public administration, the Project will assist the
Government in defining a mvdium-tera adjustment program to complement its
short-term stabilization efforts.
Niger' s Future Development Prospects
23.      Whereas structural adjustment is essential in Niger to permit the
economy to realize its productive potenial, it is, in itself, not a sufficient
condition to achieve sustainable long-term growth. A concerted development
effort is required to reduce the country'a severe real resource constraints
and expand the production base of the economy. Primarily, this will involve
further development of the agricultural sector and, to a lesser extent, of the
energy and mining sectors. It also requires the accelerated development of
Niger's human resources in combination with an active program to slow
population growth.
24.      With the fundamental change in its economic outlook as a result of
the downturn of the uranium sector, Niger will, once again, have to rely pri-
marily on its limited agricultural resources for its economic development in
the medium term. However, the future of its agriculture is uncertain. Past
increases in production were achieved through more intensive use of better
soils and greater use of marginal lands. Continuation of these practices
would severely reduce soil fertility over time. The maintenance of food self-
sufficiency in the eighties and beyond can only be achieved through gradual
improvements in yields on lands that are already under cultivation. Given
past low levels of investment in human resources and the limited state of the
existing agricultural technology suited to Niger's conditions, the needed
improvements will be very difficult to achieve without major and continuing
support from the international community. Also, support for greater use of
modern agricultural inputs, the development of small scale i-:igation schemes,
and applied research will be crucial to the future development of Niger's
agriculture.
25.      Other development potential might exist in (non-uranium) mining and
energy. Timited geological surveys and exploration have produced mixed
results. An important coal deposit of apparently good quality was identified
in± 1983, but the landlocked position of Niger and the transportation cost for
even the local market casts serious doubt over the economic viability of the
development of the coal deposit. Probably more promising is the ongoing oil
exploration which may have identified a small oil reserve that could, in time,
reduce Niger's oil import bill. }4ore efforts and better planning of geogical
surveys and exploration will be needed to have a better assessment of energy
and mining development potential.
26.      Efficient use of these potential resources will require further
development of the education system. Primary education will need to be
expanded as rapidly as feasible, and professional and vocational training
designed to meet the specific needs of the Nigerien economy will need to be



made available to develop human capital as a productive resource and reduce
the country's skilled manpower constraints. However, the increasing scarcity
of public revenues will require original solutions to the financing of such
human resources development. On the other hand, the current rate of
population growth of 3.1 percent per year means that the economy would have to
devote an increasing share of its resources just to maintain existing low
levels of income. Consequently, an effort will need to be made to reduce
population growth rate over the longer term.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
27.      Twenty-four IDA credits have so far been approved for Niger,
totalling US$211.3 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of these
credits as of December 31, 1983. Eight credits have been for the rural sector
(drought relief, rural development, forestry, irrigation and livestock), and
five for roads, primarily aimed at upgrading the main and feeder road net-
works. The nine other credits covered telecommunication, education, and
industrial development.
28.      The Bank's operational strategy in Niger is two-fold;  to assist the
country in the formulation and implementation of appropriate adjustment pro-
grams for the short- and medium-term future; and to address the country's
long-term growth and development issues. Faced with the severe financial
crisis in 1982, the Government of Niger has increasingly turned to the Bank --
and to the IMF -- for technical and financial assistance in the preparation of
appropriate policy responses. This has led to a rapid expansion of the Bank's
dialogue with the country on macroeconomic and sectoral policy issues during
the last two years, both separately and in conjunction with project lending.
It has also resulted in the proposed Economic and Financial Management
Improvement Project, which is described in detail in Part IV of this Report.
29.      Other lending operations have supported Niger's long-term development
by emphasizing productive investment and institutional reform, particularly in
the agricultural sector. Here, the severity of natural constraints and the
present state of technical knowledge made development slow and difficult.
However, experience with ongoing projects has demonstrated that potential does
exist. Bank Group lending has supported projects to increase production
through gradual development of irrigation potential, provision  . services to
pastoralists, and crop-livestock integration. Future lending in the sector
will continue in these directions, while seeking especially to improve
technical packages, lower irrigation costs and introduce smaller-scale,
grassroots-initiated development projects.
30.      Other sectors that will continue to be the focus of Bank Group opera-
tions will be human resources (health and education), water supply, energy and
transportation.  For this fiscal year, one operation -- in addition to the
Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project -- is envisaged. This
is a Power Technical Assistance Project which is expected to define future
investments and policy reform in th power sector. For FY85, a Petroleum



Engineering Credit is envisaged to assist th- country in its ongoing oil
exploration efforts. Finally, depending on the success of the Nigerien
Government's efforts to define and implement a program of broad policy reform,
Bank Group lending in FY86 or FY87 could include other forms of non-project
lending such as sectoral or structural adjustment type operations.
31.      Niger'B performance in project implementation and disbursement has in
general been cuite satisfactary, particularly in light of the environmental,
inst .tational, and managerial constraints within the country. However, due to
the current sl-mp in the world economy, the country is having difficulty meet-
ing counterpart financing requirements which, during the uranium boom, were
set at levels of 20-30 percent of total project costs.  In view of the
determined steps which the Government is taking to resolve its financial
difficulties, IDA has, under its Special Action Program, introduced increased
cost sharing arrangements for new, as well as ongoing projeets and, where
necessary, introduced special accounts to pre-finance project expenditures.
The proposed project includes both features -- 95 percent IDA financing of
project costs and a special acc._unt.
PART III - NIGER'S PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
AND ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEME
32.      Although the Government has given high priority to education and
training in the past two decades, Niger continues to face severe shortages of
skilled and experienced manpower which, to a large extent, explain today's
economic and financial difficulties of the country. To compensate for these
shortages, the Government has relied heavily on foreign technical asss .;ancrs
to help it run the public administration and manage the development effort.
Nearly 25 percent of total foreign assistance received by Niger in the last
twenty years has been in the form of technical assistance. The design of this
assistance has been strongly influer^ed by the urgent need to provide basic
public services and to increase Niger's capacity to absorb rapidly growing aid
flows from the international community. However, the technical assistance has
been often fragmented and ad hoc in nature, with emphasis placed on
implementing individual development projects and on strengthening specific
parts of departments responsible for public services. While quite successful
in achieving its limited objectives, this approach has thus not contributed
sufficiently to b-uilding up a cohesive and coordinated public administration
capable of undertaking broad-based economic and f-inancial policy analysis and
introducing reforms of the kind req7xired to deal with the present crisis.
33.      The development of the crisis in the last three years highlighted
Niger's weaknesses in economic and financial management. In particular, the
Ministries of Plan and Finance were not sufficiently aware of the structural
nature of the uranium recession and the financial consequences of the Govern-
ment's continued efforts to implement its ambitious Five-Year Development
Plan. The rapid deterioration of the financial situation of the parastatal
sector also highlighted the poor management capabilities of this sector.  The
following paragraphs provide a brief description of the organizational struc-
tures of the Ministries of Plan and Finance and their deficiencies, and of



the technical assistance currently extended to them. The problems of the
management of tne parastatal sector are also discussed.
Organi'zation and Functions of the Ministry of Plan
34.      The Ministry of P'lan has the overall responsibility for providing the
naticnal accounts and all other general economic and social statistics and for
designing and coordinating Niger's development strategies.  Three ministerial
departments are central to these functions (organization chart, Annex IV,
tab'le 1). (1) The Statistical Department carries out economic and social
surveys, prepares national accounts, and publishes statistical data. (2) The
Planning and Project Evaluation Department coordinates the preparation of
development strategies and plans and is responsible for the appraisal and
selection of projects. It also prepares annual follow-up reperts on the
investment program. (3) The Public Investment Department mobilizes foreign
resources to finance development projects included in the Plan, prepares
annual Dublic investment budgets, and monitors development projects under
implementation. A modern computer center supports the three departments.
35.      There are 82 high- and mid-level staff in the Ministry, cof which 45
are in the Planning and Project Evaluation Department, 13 in the Public
Investment Department, and 12 in the Statistical Department. A total of 17
expatriate advisors are provided mainly by FAC, UNDP and uSAID: eight are in
the Planning and Project Evaluation Department*, three in the Statistical
Department, two in the Public Investment Department, and four in the Computer
Center.
36.      In spite of these relatively important resources, the Ministry's
performance is hampered by the following weaknesses:  (a) there is no clearly
drawn division of responsibilities between the three departments, and this has
led to inefficiencies, delays, duplications and consequent rivalries between
them; (b) while the departments, by and large, have adequate numbers of high
and mid-level staff and expatriate advisors, the staff is young and inexperi-
enced, and the allecation of staff and advisors between departments does not
adequately reflect needs; (c) the computer center is not able to adequately
support the departments which, in addition, suffer from insufficient and obso-
lete transport and office equipment; the needs of the Statistical Department
are particularly acute. As a result, the Ministry of Plan suffers from an
absence of up-to-date economic and social data, weak planning and project
analysis with project selection bearing lit le relationship to overall
economic and sectoral development objectives, almost non-existant program
mcnitaring and evaluation and, consequently, poor investment budgeting.
Organization and Functions of the Ministry of Finance
37.      Formally, the Ministry of Finance (Organization Chart , Annex IV,
table 2) has the responsibility of defining government financial policies and
controlling their implementation. It mobilizes all government domestic
resources and, in principle, approves all foreign borrowing. It draws up and
supervises the implementation of the government budget. In practice, however,
the Ministry Lacks adequate control of government financial matters as the
budget currently excludes (a) foreign borrowings and grants which, contrary to



- 10 -
principle, are contracted by other ministries vithout prior approval from the
Ministry of Finance and (b) current and capital expenditures financed by
foreign borrowings and grants. Most importantly, the Ministry of Finance has
little control over government current expenditures since it has to finance a
foreign public debt contracted by other ministries and provide resources for
current expenditures associated with a public investment program decided upon
by the Ministry of PIan without any formal consultation with the Ministry of
Finance. A schematic presentation of government budget process is presented
in Annex IV, Table 3.
38.      There are 45 high-level staff and 85 mid-level staff in the Ninistry
of Finance.  With the exception of two relatively new departments (Public Debt
and Financial Planning), the Ministry appears to have adequate numbers of
staff. In addition to local staff, it has seven expatriate advisors (four of
whom are topographers to conduct a private property census in Niamey) provided
by FAC, and two expatriate advisors (one in Fiscal Affairs and one in Public
Debt Management) financed by the IMF. It has introduced computer data
processing in some of its departments (Treasury, Public Accounting, and
Payroll). However, the Ministry suffers from problems simitar to those in the
Ministry of Plan. While the functional responsibilities of its different
departments have been clarified in a reorganization last year, other
weaknesses remain: staff is inexperienced, and staff shortages are acute in
the Public Debt and Financial Planning Departments; operations are seriously
hampered by lack of sufficient data processing capabilities; and technical
assistance is directed at problem solving instead of developing the
capabilities of the Xinistry as a whole. As a result, the Ninistry's
performance suffers from: (a) poor tax collection administration and an
inefficient fiscal system; (b) inefficient budget control and monitoring
instruments; Cc) poor public debt managment; (d) lack of analytical cap-
abilities to review the effectiveness of fiscal policies and their economic
impact; an. (e) a total absence of any medium-term financial planning.
Parastatal Sector
39.      The parastatal sector includes 54 public and mixed enterprises and
public agencies and represents the bulk of the modern sector in banking,
manufacturing, trade, and services. The sector employs more than 15,000
people (more than the Government itself) and contributes about 10 percent to
GDP. Set up to ensure state control of key sectors and to attract private
savings into productive investment, the sector is plagued witn operational
difficulties: undercapitalization, management and organizational problems,
uneconomic regulatory and pricing policies, inefficient project design and
consequent low productivity. These, in sum, have turned a large number of
enterprises in the sector into a severe drain on the government budget and the
banking system, which carry the burden of covering the sector's operating
losses. During the uranium boom, the financial resources available to the
Government and the banking system were sufficient to meet the growing
financial needs of the parastata' sector. However, when the boom ended in
1980, resources were rapidly depleted. As a result, the banking system, the
parastatal sector and the Government are now facing a serious financial
crisis. In addition, the sector has negative effects on the economy more
generally: private initiative is discouraged and services provided by the



- 11 -
sector are unsatisfactory in critical areas such as agriculture, trade, and
distribution. An overall redefinition of ->he sector's objectives and its
relations vis-a-vis the Government and the private sector is therefore needed.
The New Challenge Facing the Nigerien Public Administration
40.      Throughout the rest af this decade, the Nigerien Gavernment will not
only face greater difficulties in mobilizing domestic and foreign resources,
but it will alsc be cbliged to service the large public debt accumulated
during the last few years. It is critical, therefore, that the country's
limited rescurces are managed and allocated efficiently to ensure mx-imum
benefits. For the Government, this means the implementation of a strict
consolidatian program to stabilize the current financial situation and the
farmulation of a medium-term pragram of structural reform, as mentioned
earlier. The respcnsibility for defining and supervizing the implementation
of both adjustment programs rests with the Ninistries of Plan and Finance. To
successfully carry out these tasks, the two ministries will need to improve
their econcmic and finsncial management capabilities and develop the func-
tional relationship that is needed between them, specifically for the
ef.ficient management of the parastatal sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.      The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited Niamey
in March 1983. A post appraisal mission visited Niger in July 1983. The
project was negotiated in Nianey in April, 1984. The Government delegation
was led by the Minister of State for Planning. A credit and project summary
is given at the beginning of the report. No Staff Appraisal Report is being
issued. Supplementary project tables are attached in Annex IV.
Project Objectives and Description
42.      The project will (a) help the Government design a consolidation
program .for the short term and a structural adjustment program for the medium
term and (b) progressively strengthen the economic and financial management
capabilities of the Ministries of Plan and Finance.  It will consist of (i)
economic studies, (ii) institution-bullding support to the Ministries of Plan
and Finance, (iii) training of staff in the two ministries, and (iv) technical
assistance to other Government agencies to be identified during project imple-
mentation. A project management unit will be set up under the project.  A
description of the project components and their objectives is given in the
following paragraphs and is summarized in Annex IV, Table 4. The implementa-
tion schedule of the various components of the project is provided in Annex IV,
Table 5. Annex IV, Table 9 contains a list of documents available in the
project file. These documents include: (a) a more detailed description of
the project components, (b) Government decrees related to project management,
and (c) terms of reference of studies and advisory positions to be financed
under the project.



- 12 -
Project Preparation Facility
43.      Two advances under the Project Preparation Facility, totalling US$1.0
millibn, have been approved by IDA. The first advance of USS705,000 was
approved on January 26, 1983 and the second one of US$295,000 on September 2,
1983. These advances were made to enable the Government to complete the
preparation of the proposed Project, formulate the first phase (1983/84) of
its consolidation program, and to undertake a diagnostic study of the
parastatal sector.  As a result, a review of the public investment program,
the public debt and the general financial situation of the Government was
completed in July 1983. The main part of the parastatal study had already
been completed in March 1984 and the Interministerial Coordinating Committee
is in the process of reviewing it. A master plan for progressive introduction
of modern data processing in the Ministry of Finance was completed in May 1983
and was used as a basis for the definition of the fiscal management, public
debt and financial planning components of the proposed project. Ongoing since
early 1984 is short-term technical assistance to the Public Debt and the
Financial Planning Departaents of the Ministry of Finance and the Public In-
vestment Department of the Ninistry of Plan to help these departments monitor
the performance criteria of the IMF Standby Program.
World Bank/IMP Coordination
44.      Close coordination between the Bank and the IMF has been maintained
during the preparation of the proposed Project to ensure its complementarity
with both ongoing and future Fund programs in Niger. Indeed, the studies
undertaken sofar under the Project Preparation Facility have assisted the
government in the formulation of its short-term adjustment program which
formed the basis for the 1984 Standby Arrangement with the IMF. Similarly,
measures taken under .he Project to strengthen the country's public admini-
stration will enable the government to introduce IMF-supported reform pro-
grams, not only in 1984, but also in future years. Bank staff has partici-
pated in IMF missions to Niger and vice versa, and draft documents and views
were exchanged at every stage in the processing of the Project. Coordination
between the two institutions wil' continue in the future, both in the super-
vision of the Project and in assisting the country to formulate a medium-term
structural adjustment program which, to a large extent, will be based on
studies to be undertaken under the Project.
Project Components
A. Economic Studies:
45.      These include:  (i) a public investment and financial situation
study; (ii) other studies required for the definition of a structural
adjustment program; and (iii) selected project appraisal studies for the
Ministry of Plan.



- 13 -
1.   Review of the Public Investment Program, Public Debt and
the Financial Situation of the Government.
46.      This study, financed under the PPF, helped the Government prepare a
short-term consolidation program to be supported by the IMF Standby Arrange-
ment. I' included (a) the establishment of an updated data base for the
public investment program, public debt, balance of payments, and the 1982/83
government budget; and (b) two-year projections of the government financial
situation under different policy scenarios. A total of seven man/months of
consultant services was provided to prepare the study.
2.   Structural Adjustment Studies
47.      The Parastatal Sector Diagnostic Study.  This study, which is being
financed under the two PPF advances, surveys all 54 parastatal enterprises
(with a subset of these being reviewed indepth) and includes a review of: (i)
the economic and social objectives defined for the parastatal sector by the
Government; (ii) the institutional framework within which the sector has
operated in the past; (iii) the sector's achievements as compared to its
objectives; and (iv) the economic and financial costs of these achievements.
The study will recommend necessary changes in the objectives of the sector and
in the institutional framework within which it should operate. It will define
general guidelines for the rehabilitation of the sector.  The study is being
carried out by two consulting firms, supported by a Nigerien interministerial
working group. A high-level interministerial coordinating committee is super-
vising and reviewing the study and will present its recommendations to the
Government for discussion and adoption. IDA is also in the process of
reviewing the results of the study with the Government in order to determine
an action plan following upon the study's recommendations. The project
provides 46 man/months of consultant services for the preparation of the
studies.
48.      Rehabilitation Studies for Selected Enterprises.  Following govern-
ment action on the broad policies presented in the diagnostic study, the
project will finance further studies to define specific rehabilitation
programs for a selected number of important public enterprises. These studies
will analyse different possible rehabilitation scenarios involving financial
and physical restructuring, employment, management, training, etcetera. The
project will provide 70 man/months of consultant services to carry out these
studies.
49.      Other Sector Studies.  These studies will help the Government define
a structural adjustment program as a follow-up to the present consolidation
program. Studies to be financed under the project will be selected jointly by
the Government and IDA and could include the following:
-    Agricultural Research:  Assessment of ongoing agricultural research
act-ivaties and recommendations for institutional reforms.
-    Irrigation:  Comparative analysis of irrigation development costs in
the Sahel region and identification of ways to reduce such costs in
Niger.



- 14 -
Agricultural Xarketing and Input Supply:  Complementary study to
parastatal studies to define the role of the private sector in the
provision of input supply and marketing services to the agricultural
sector.
Private Industrial and Trade Sector:  Review of the incentives system
and institutional organization of the sector in order to recommend
measures to provide greater incentives for private sector development.
This study will follow up in work financed under the Industrial
Development Project (Cr. 1225) in 1982.
Mining:  Review of ongoing activities and formulation of recormenda-
tions concerning policy reforms and refocussing of mining research
activity.
Public Sector EmployMent and Management of Human Resources:  Analysis
of recent growth in public employment and its consequences on public
finance and administration.
3-   Project Appraisal Studies
50.      Assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Plan's Planning and
Project Evaluation Department to analyze those development projects that are
likely to have a significant impact on public debt and the government
budget. Twenty man/months of consultant services will be provided to carry
out such studies.
B. Institution-Building
51.      This component will strengthen:  (a) the Ministry of Plan in public
investment programming, capital expenditure budgeting, and statistical ana-
lysis; and (b) the Ministry of Finance in fiscal management, budget prepara-
tion and financial planning. It will help the Government introduce flexible
and continuous economic and financial planning, including the preparation of
the next two or three government budgets within the framevork of revolving
plans. Through the development of coherent information systems, the component
will also help improve the functional relationship between the two ministries
as well as among the different departments of each of these ministries. In
addition to 214 man/motlths of advisory and consultant services, the project
will also provide equipment and training.
1.  Ministry of Plan
52.      The project will (i) rehabilitate the Statistical Department;
(ii) strengthen the analytical and managerial capabilities of the Public
Investment Department; and (iii) improve the services of the computer
center.  A selective approach has been used in designing these components to
ensure coordination and complementarity with similar assistance currently
provided by U1DP, USAID and FAC. The project will provide a total of 70
man/months of consultant services, in addition to equipment and supplies, in
the following areas:



- 15 -
(a) The Statistical Department. The project will provide 22 man/months
of consultant services to help local staff and the three consultants
provided by FAC to update and publish the national accounts and the
balance of payments and foreign trade data for the years 1978-1983,
and establish improved methods of statistical data collection,
anal'ysis and publication. In addition, the project will provide
equipment and supplies to the department.
(b)  The Public Investment Department. The project will help this depart-
ment establish an investment information system to develop and update
detailed information on the public investment program and its
financial and economic implications. The department's financial
analysis and budgeting capabilities will be strengthened through the
introduction of better methodologies. This component will help both
this department and the other related departments institute more
effective planning procedures and help the Government present con-
solidated annual budgets that will incorporate public investment
expenditures as well as its financing. Twenty-four man/months of
consulting services and related equipment will be provided to set up
the computerized information system and institutionalize the prepara-
tion of consolidated annual public investment budgets.
(c)  The Computer Center.  The project will assist the Center in develop-
ing computer programs to support the Statistical and Public Invest-
ment Departments. Computer programs will be developed to computerize
the management and analysis of the public investment data base, and
for the analysis of small, recurrent statistical surveys such as
consumer prices and economic activities of the modern sector. The
project wil2 provide 24 man/months of consultant services.
2.   Mi:iistry of Finance
53.      The project will help the Ministry of Finance:  (i) introduce
financial planning; (ii) improve budget preparation and control procedures;
(iii) strengthen public debt management; and (iv) improve fiscal management.
The components are designed to reinforce and integrate the assistance
currently received by the Ministry from the IMF and the French Government.
IDA assistance will include a total of 144 man/months of consultant services,
in addition to equipment and supplies, in the following areas:
(a) Financial Planning Department. The project will, in cooperation with
French as3istance, help the Department (a) establish a manually
operated information system to monitor the performance criteria rela-
tive to the IMF Standby Program; (b) subsequently computerize the
system; and (c) acquire analytical capabilities in public finance and
financial planning. This will lead to an improvement in the flow of
information between the Treasury, the Public Accounting Department
and the Fiscal Administration Department. The project will, in
cooperation with the fiscal advisor provided by FAC, provide a finan-
cial expert for 24 months and support six man/months of consultant
services in the form of short-term missions by the technical coop-
eration agency of the French Ministry of Finance, ADETEF (para. 63).



- 16 -
The project will also provide equipment and supplies for the com-
puterization of the monitoring information system.
(b) Public Debt Department. The project will help the department improve
its daily management of the public debt and develop analytical capa-
bilities to analyze the structure of the debt and its short- and
medium-term consequences on the budget. The project will provide 24
man/months of consultant services in debt mAnagement and computer
programming, a micro computer and supplies. IDA assistance will be
provided in close cooperation with an IMF advisor who is assisting
the Director of the Department in reorganizing the public debt
management system.
(c)  Fiscal Administration.  The project will help the Ministry of Finance
improve its fiscal management through the computerization of:
(i) personal income tax administration; (ii) customs clearance pro-
cedures and foreign trade operations; and (iii) private property
registration and taxation. In addition to equipment and supplies,
the project will provide 90 man/months of consultant services to
achieve these objectives.
C. Training
54.      To secure the benefits of the institution-building assistance pro-
vided to the Ministries of Plan and Finance, the project will (a) strengthen
staffing and improve the knowledge and skills of existing staff in key depart-
ments of the two ministries; and (b) help the two ministries establish
training capabilities to allow a continuous upgrading of the knowledge and
skills of their staff in the future.
55.      The training program will be implemented in two phases.  The fLrst
phase is designed to (a) reduce a severe shortage of statistical assistants;
(b) improve the skills of existing mid-level staff in key departments of the
Ministries of Plan and Finance; (c) train a sufficient number of high-level
staff capable of replacing the existing ones as needed; and (d) improve inter-
and intraministerial working relationship in the two ministries through semi-
nars. Overall organization and control will be provided by ADETEF for
economic and financial training and by UNDTCD for statistical training in this
phase. The second phase, which will draw on the experience of the first
phase, will assist the National Public Administration School (ENA) establish
short-term training programs in economic and financial management that will
help employees of the Ministries of Plan and Finance, in particular, and tech-
nical ministries, in general, upgrade their skills and knowledge. The project
will also help ENA establish a permanent training department for statistical
assistants. The scope and design of the second phase will be based on a more
comprehensive assessment of the training needs of the Ministries of Plan and
Finance and other technical ministries, which will be carried out during the
first phase of the training program.
56.      Training of Statistical Assistants.  Efficient functioning of the
statistical department will require the services of at least 30 statistical
assistants, who will be trained in general statistical methods. With



- 17 -
assistance from a UNDP financed consultant, a two-year local program has been
designed to provide the necessary training. The work program for the depart-
ment has been designed to both rehabilitate the department and to provide
complementary on-the-job training to the trainees. The proposed project will
finance two-year scholarships for 30 trainees, supplemental salaries to lonal
teachers and related equipment and supplies. The Government will provide the
classrooms. Three consultants furnished to the Statistical Department by FAC
and local high-level staff will provide the training.
57.      Improvement of the Skills of Existing Mid-Level Staff.  The training
program for mid-level staff of the Public Investment Department of the M4inis-
try of Plan and the Financial Planning, Public Debt, and Fiscal Administration
Departments of the Ministry of Finance was designed by a mission of French
training specialists organized by ADETEF and financed under the first PPF
advance. The program will include both vrisits to different departments of the
French Ministry of Finance by selected Nigerien staff, and local short-term
training programs involving courses and on-the-job training to familiarize the
Nigerien staff with the use of modern data processing in investment prog-
ramming and budgeting, public debt and fiscal management. The local training
programs will be designed and supervised by experienced staff of the French
Ministry of Finance. The project will -:inance travel and subsistence costs of
Nigerien staff selected to visit some deDartments of French Ministry of
Finance and of the French short-term cons2'tants provided by ADETEF to assist
the local training programs. In addition, the project will provide training
equipment and supplies.
58.      Training of High-Level Staff.  The Ministries of Plan and Finance,
like the rest of the Government, are confronted with two important staffing
constraints: (a) inexperience of their predominantly young high-level staff;
and (b) the difficulty in replacing high-level staff due for promotion with
equally qualified personnel. To partially overcome these two difficulties,
the proposed project includes a training component for high-level staff. This
component includes ten four-year scholarships to train four statisticians, two
demographers, two financial analysts and two computer analysts; and twenty
six-month scholarships to allow the most promising and experienced mid-level
staff of both Ministries of Plan and Finance to move to higher positions in
their fields of expertise. Both the four-year and six-month training programs
will be organized in well established training institutions in France, other
parts of Africa and the U.S.A.
59.      Seminars.  To promote further cooperation between the Ministries of
Plan and Finance, the project will finance five to six seminars. These semi-
nars, in association with outside experts, will provide the staff of both
ministries with opportunities to discuss issues related to economic and
financial planning and management in Niger. Conference rooms will be provided
by the Government and the project wili finance the cost of foreign lecturers
invited to participate in the seminars. The seminars will be jointly
organized by the Project Management Unit, the Project Coordinating Committee
and ADETEF.



- 18 -
D. Provision for Additional Studies and Technical Assistance
60.      To achieve and secure the objectives of the proposed project in the
long term, the Ministries of Plan and Finance, in particular, as well as the
other technical ministries will need additional technical support in institu-
tion-building and training which can only be identified progressively during
the implementation of the project. Additional technical assistance is also
needed to help the Government carry out the sectoral studies required for the
definition of a structural adjustment program for the economy of Niger, as
discussed in para. 49. To respond to these needs and maintain the momentum of
the Government's efforts to improve its overall economic and financial
management capabilities, the proposed project will include a US$3.2 million
provision for additional technical assistance to be identified during project
implementation.
Project Implementation
61.      The project implementation management system has been designed to
respond to the two main characteristics of this project: (i) the strong inter-
relationships between the various project comaponents; and (ii) the necessity
to ensure maximum complementarity of the project with the other technical
assistance programs provided to the Ministries of Plan and Finance.
62.      The Minister of State for Planning has been designated by the Govern-
ment to have overall responsibility for project implementation (Section
3.01(b) of draft Credit Agreement). To enable centralized management and
review of the various interrelated project components and to ensure their
coherent implementation, a Project Management Unit (PMU), located in the
Ministry of Plan, has been established. This Unit is composed of the Director
of Public Investment acting as Project Director, a consu7tant with extensive
experience in technical assistance project management as Assistant Project
Director, an accountant and a secretary. In addition to the overall
supervision and coordination of the project, the PMU will also be responsible
for: (a) preparing terms of reference for consultants and tender documents
for the necessary equipment; (b) supervising the selection process of
consultants and equipment; (c) coordinating the proposed project with other
technical assistance being received by the Ministries of Plan and Finance; (d)
financial management of the project; and (e) preparing quarterly progress
reports, to be discussed with the Technical Inter-Ministerial Project
Coordination Committee and forwarded to IDA (Sections 3.04 and 3.07 of draft
Credit Agreement). This Committee has been established to provide technical
supervision of project implementation, and to ensure coordination between the
various ministerial departments at the working level. It is composed of the
Secretary General of the Ministry of Plan (Chairman), the Secretary General of
the Ministry of Commerce and Transport (Vice-Chairman), the Project Director,
the coordinator of the working group in charge of the parastatal studies, the
directors of the recipient ministerial departments, and the assistant project
director of the PMU. This Committee will meet on a quarterly basis to review
progress in the implementation of the project and define the work program for
the following quarter.  The PMIU will provide technical and secretarial support
to the Committee as required.



- 19 -
Delivery System
63.      Past experience in providing institutional technical assistance has
shown that so-called twinning arrangements, i.e., a professional relationship
between an operating entity in a developing country and a similar but more
mature organization elsewhere, are often successful in achieving effective
project implementation. This approach offers several advantages over the more
traditional one of using consultants: (i) the mature entity has operating
experience in similar functions which a consulting firm may lack; (ii) tech-
nical assistance can be integrated with training since the mature entity can
offer both role models and training facilities; and (iii) there is a pos-
sibility of continued long-term cooperation between the two entities. In
addition, the Bank, or a local consultant, can provide the necessary advisory
support to make up for any lack in consulting or design experience on the part
of the mature entity. The proposed project involves such a twinning arrange-
ment between the Nigerien Ministries of Plan and Finance and the French Mini-
stry of Finance and Economy through its nonprofit association ADETEF. Under
the proposed arrangement, the French Ministry of Finance will provide the
necessary technical support for the implementation of the technical assistance
project through periodic short-term secondment of experts drawn from its own
staff as well as from other French ministries such as the Ministry of Plan and
Cooperation. In addition to the secondment of French staff, the French
Ministry of Finance will organize training in its own departments and offer
training facilities for Nigerien staff in France. Finally, the Ministries of
Plan and Finance will have access to French expertise in public finance
management and fiscal policy. A first protocol defining a two-year
cooperation program in the field of public finance management between the
Nigerien and French Goverments was signed in September 1983. The protocol is
renewable every two years. A Franco-Nigerien committee will be established to
periodically review the progress achieved under this bilateral cooperation
agreement and take the necessary measures to insure continued proper
implementation of the proposed project. This support from the French
Government is provided free to the Government of Niger. The IDA credit will
cover travel and subsistence expenditures for the French staff seconded to the
Nigerien Government, estimated at US$6,000 per man/month for about 20
man/months.
64.      Through ADETEF, IDA will also be able to encourage both FAC and CCCE
participation in the project. Both the Ministries of Plan and Finance cur-
rently receive substantial technical assistance from these two agencies.
Coordinating such assistance within the framework of the project will result
in a more coherent and comprehensive end product. This cooperation could
facilitate an overall integration of technical assistance provided to these
two ministries from other sources.
65.      Another special arrangement is envisaged with UNDTCD for the imple-
mentation of the statistical component of the proposed project and the related
training program. Under a service agreement to be signed with the Nigerien
Government, UNDTCD will provide statistical consultants as well as its exper-
tise in the development of statistical services. UNDTCD will also support the
implementation of the training programs designed for the statistical
department.



- 20 -
66.      Use of individual consultants and consultant agencies will complement
the assistance to be provided under the twinning arrangement and will help
carry out the economic and financial studies required for the definition of a
structural adjustment program for the economy of Niger.
Project Costs and Financing
67.      The total cost (net of taxes) of the project is estimated at US$12.6
million equivalent, of which 89 percent (US$11.2 million) would be foreign
exchange. A breakdown of project costs is given in the credit and project
summary. Total contingencies are US$2.6 million or 26 percent of the project
base cost. The allowance for expected price increases over the five years of
the project is based on projected inflation rates of 8.0 percent for 1984, and
6.0 per-ent for 1985 through 1988 for local expenditures and 3.3 percent for
1984, 8.0 percent for 1985, and 9.0 percent for 1986 through 1988 for foreign
expenditures. Allowances for physical contingencies are estimated at 5
percent of base costs of equipment and services.
68.      The proposed IDA credit of US$11.7 million equivalent would finance
foreign exchange costs and 30 percent of local costs. The Government will
contribute US$900,000 or 7.0 percent of total costs to finance local costs,
which will mainly consist of incremental Nigerien staff required by the
project.
Procurement
69.      Equipment and supplies including vehicles, office machines, small
data processing equipment, office furniture, gasoline and office supplies will
be procured following acceptable government procurement procedures for
contracts less than US$100,000. Total contracts under local procedures aro
estimated at about USCSOO,000. Contracts for equipment and supplies exceeding
US$100,000 each and amounting to a total of about US$400,000 will be subject
to international competitive bidding (ICB). A 15% preference will be given to
domestic suppliers (Schedule 3 of Credit Agreement). Recruitment of con-
sultants for institution-building and studies will be subject to IDA
guidelines (Section 3.02(a) of Credit Agreement).
70.      Since the Government is unable to pre-finance expenditures to be
reimbursed under the IDA credit, an IDA-financed special account of US$100,000
equivalent will be established (Section 2.02(c) of Credit Agreement). The
opening of such an account in a local commercial bank will be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
Disbursement
71.      The credit of US$11.7 million equivalent will be disbursed against
the following items and will cover 100 percent of all foreign exchange
expenditures and a share of local currency expenditures net of taxes for:



- 21 -
(a) consultant services for technical assistance and studies
(US$6,475,000): 100 percent of all foreign costs of internationally
recruited specialists (salaries, overhead costs, international travel
and subsistence allowances);
(b) fellowships (US$600,000): 100 percent of total costs;
(c) equipment and supplies, including office equipment, office supplies
and vehicles (US$1,190,000); 100 percent of total cost;
(d) supplemental salaries and emoluments of selected local support
personnel (US$235,000): 30 percent of total cost;
(e) office rent (US$50,000): 100 percent of total cost; and
(f) provision for additional studies and technical assistance as
described in para. 60 (US$3,150,000).
Expenditures described above include two advances totalling US$1.0 million
from the Project Preparation Facility which would be refinanced upon effec-
tiveness of the Credit (Section 2.01(b) of Credit Agreement). Disbursement
will be fully documented for equipment, technical assistance, studies and
short-term consultancies, and against certified statements of expenditure for
the project's local operating costs. The Project Management Unit will main-
tain all project accounts, which will be audited annually by auditors accept-
able to IDA. Documentation will be made available for inspection by the Asso-
ciation in the course of supervision missions (Section 4.01 of Credit Agree-
ment). Disbursements have been projected in accordance with the disbursement
profile for technical assistance projects in East and West Africa.
Benefits and Risks
72.      Benefits expected from the proposed project are two-fold.  First, the
project will lead to the formulation of a short-term financial stabilization
program for the Nigerien economy and a medium-term structural adjustment
program aimed at leading the economy toward a more sustainable long-term
economic growth path. Second, the project will improve the economic and
financial management capabilities of the Nigerien Government.
73.      The project carries two basic risks.  The first one concerns the
long-term benefits of the project. The project will not lead to any lasting
improvement in the country's economic and financial management without (i) the
political determination and commitment of the Government to continue to imple-
ment the project objectives, even after full disbursement of the Credit; and
(ii) continued technical and financial assistance to support the Government in
the preparation and implementation of its economic adjustment programs. How-
ever, at present, these two conditions seem to have been met. There exists,
between the Government and the IMF and the World Bank an open dialogue on
macroeconomic policy issues which is likely to continue in the future. An IMP
Standby Arrangement is already in place and a new IMF program for 1985 will be
negotiated in July/August. Also, the Government is actively working with the
World Bank towards the formulation of a medium-term policy reform program
which is likely to be supported by a structural adjustment loan in 1986.



- 22 -
74.      The second risk is related to the general problem of high staff
turnover, mobility and lack of trained personnel in Niger which might become a
constraint on the proper implementation of the proposed project. To deal with
this risk, IDA will provide 'excess' training to ensure an adequate supply of
trained staff in the key ministerial departme.ts. In addition, Nigerien staff
Xtrained under the project for less than six months will be required to remain
in their respective Ministries for at least one year, and those who receive
more than six months of training will be required to remain at their Kinistry
for at least three years. To deal with the unavoidable problem of staff pro-
motions in the medium term, the project includes training for high-level staff
capable of replacLng those due for promotion. Finally, IDA will discuss
guidelines for staff selection and replacement with the Government to ensure
stability and continuilty in project implementation (Section 3.03 of Credit
Agreerent). More general issues related to government employment management
policies will be addressed in a study to be financed under the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITI
75.      The Credit Agreement between the Republic of Niger and the Associa-
tion and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d), of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
76.      The project contains the following three special conditions:  (a) the
Nigerien staff trained under the project for less than six months would be
required to remain in the Ministry for which they are intended for at least
one year, and those trained for more than six months will be required to
remain for at least three years; (b) IDA will discuss guidelines for staff
selection and replacement to ensure stauility and zontinuit- in project
implementation (para. 74); and (c) the Government sball open a Special Account
in a local commercial bank acceptable to IDA (para. 70).
77.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 17, 1984
Washington, D. C.



-23-                                                       Annex I
Page 1 of 5
u1E6m 6  Na9S   _S         =     s
~sr                      C-sr  ~E  STZuh) lb   -
x,wg.      1970. ElIZUWb         AMSI  S. OrDb,Z-o"
am5CMUS SQ.                                                                    A       . S
MTAL                             1367.0     1267.0      267.0
AGALCULIURAL                      t27_2      130.0      130.2
w F L11  C15$)             t        30.0        160.0      330.0             Z54.6        It47.9
-gc    ams?ouT im3 arTm
C(iLOLWASS dF CDA' EWALEX)         5.0       24.0        54.0              79.5                    24.
1O0LQAn06 -  VrITL SM=SUa
rFUULaTWUX.-I1ZJ-TEA  (MMMSANDS)   Z676.0   400.0      5704.0                                        -
uOWs PUPULAZ1c Ca OF OTa)          5.6         d.4        "a0               1.35                   25.5
3qrULAItug FXOJLCZOEBs
POWULAfLOI LS UAR 2WO C]l            5
S-TATIO,iAAT PFurLA:oh (X4ILL)                        4*.4
tEAR StTALONAa  POP. REAC6E                          215
POPULATicO UENSLUT
PEg sq. .o_                      2.3         3.2        6.4              29.5                    M6.1
PM  SQ. OL AGZI. LAND           22.6        30.5       4S                96*.         1_31.
VOPULAnTO  AC STRUCURE CZ)
0-1: IRS                        ".8        4&3        46.8              45.0                    43.9
L5-6 Y#S                        52.7       5R.1        50.7              52.1                    51.2
65 A.a AwUiE                     2.6         2.6        Z.S               Z.9                     Z.S
uPULAT.oN IaH elATE ()
tu-IAL                           2.3         3.3        3.2               2.6                     2.5
L:AdAs                           4.1         7.0        7Z2              6*2                      5.3
C'J20E BEZM KATE (PEi rTuS)       51.9        50.7       5t.5              47J9                    47.6
C&rUt oDSA:! ZATE (PM1t  US)      26S         23.8       20.               19S2                    15t2
C;USS iEPMOUCTUS  RAT              3.5         3.3        3.4               3.2                     3.2
-vntILY PLr:dSNG
ACCEPTORS. l--I Crus)              -           ...
';bES CZ OF- .LSAKD -OM) . .. ._
EIfA uF FUOD PRM  PEA CALTA 
c1J9-7j-lati)                   112O        96.0        a9.o             57.4.                    95.7
r.j CAFETA SUPPLY OF
car.oGs (: or CZO QIRlIEMEI)    101.0       90-O       9Z_0              85.0                    97.1
PaLu LL__S CGAAMS PEE DU7)      65.0        S7.O       65.0              St.Z                    56.0
uF _mL" ASLML AND PULSE         zu.0        M.        z6.0/c            tP.I                     7.z
OCCLD (AlES 1-) IMEAIM RATE       44.7        35.8       30.6             2S.                     23.b
IBEALTM
LAFE DIPLCr. AT SIR  (YEARS)      37.2        40.S       44.5              47.4                    51.9
LMAN. mo1r. RATE CPEX TIOS)      19t.2      7I1.3       143.4             126.5                   tt7.6
ACCESS ro SAFE WAER (EPOP)
1OTAL                              _        W.0        2-7.01d           26.7                    2S.4
SuA.                               _        lJ37.0     3S.07d-           56.5                    70.5
RURAL                             --        19.0       26. 7i            1U.3                    tZ3
ACC-SS ro E'XMEA DESPOSAL
CZ LF PUPULAXCWNs)
TUTAL                                                                     ML 1.1)  1.0/4  25.1
_S"                               __        10.0       3b.0/d            65.7
%URAL                             ._         ._         3.07;            21.9
i!ULArL'l_P0 PdYSlCLW.          2L70.0    SsClu.0    387"0.0/.          27..2u.l                d2_6
FOP'  P'a ;::alSLIC P05         S460.01ft  7020.0      465o.o7e          3456.2                  2292.0
POP. PER doDSITAL IISD
.OTAL                          2210.0     2220.0     1430.0/4          1163.2                  10754-
CAN                                .       360.0      420.d70           380.6                   612.3
AURAL                             ''      4230.0     2020.0/d          3177.5                  39Zb.7
AMlISSiLun PM .WSFLTAL BtR        10.4        34..7/u.
AVEIRAE SIZE OF i4o4SENOLD
UTTAL             ._                         ..
AURBAL                             ..
.UPAL               __._.                    ._.._
AVERAGE SW. OF PEP7SIRZWA
NUkAL                             ..         ..
ACCSS TO ELEC;. (Z OF  eLLirS)
TUTAL                             ._          _  
UCA                                           .._.
AIUR,AL                                               ..                ..



-24-                                                       Annex I
Page 2 of 5
~~~~~- SOcaL IGu01A  841 961s
EKFaL3CL GRM   CWILIAm     £A S)GU  La
RUS                      CRUST NMEN ES?IN) lb
L17W_b&.%~b         U   in6o              Uso Zic-5m
19e0. Th                          AFRICA S_ OF SARA    afC  i CF SIA r
PIIMASI:  ~0TAL                    5.0       L4.0        23.01.            63.9                     97.2
VALE                    7.0        L0.:       29.07;             73.6                    103.1
FEMALE                  3.0        9-0        L7.07-            s5..                      68.5
StC _IDAaf: TOTAL                  0.3        l_0         4.ol.            15                        17.2
aLUE                    0.5 .0                S.0s             14.7                     23.5
FEW.E                   0.1        1.0         Z.OW7              *_1                     14-2
VocATLOAL CZ0o 5eFCONAR)             4.3        2.7         1.31              7.3 J>2
PUPL-?EACIR RAlO
PVLMAkI                          43.0/f      39.0        41.0*l            46.                       42.9
5060*!                            1t47i      20_.           0              2S._                       37
AiU  LITEKAC! RTC                   0.9           -         9.5              36.5                      37.1
a_wu
?aSSESEs CARIS/TwOSsJ  for           0.3        1.4         2.41.             3.3                      18.5
RADIO  CCElVERS/nkXQJSA%  MP         3.3       3S_Z        45-2              4S.3                     97.S
TV IWXUVtMS/laSAXOD                  .. _.                  0.9               Z.Z                     18.b
C-(0&LIL GEEUAL
tUeasr-)  C ammos
r- wmusAso  ropmArL.ob             o.J         0.5         UbIc              4.7                     18.Z
CLbQ% AAcIJAL  lA= iCEt/CAVlTA       __         o_.          _,.0                                      0.O
D0lA. LAFA  k'UUC (moosJ          944.0      LZt 6-0     L7J2_U
FeIALL (PhLXCELd)                 s.0         Y.J        l0.1              34.5                     36.L
IAIULICKE (FC bT)                 95.       93.u        9L.0              J6.Y                      56.*
LA%AsrAy C            P..A"A)      1.2 lU                 3.0               9..                     17.5
Y^lCLI.AEuA  aA. CPLSSXl
ZIJIAL                            1L1        31.6        U.1               40.9                     37.0
NA1.                              0'J_       10.1       530.b              53.0 4o-L
FILALE                             S.9        4.1         .z               Z8.9                     2V.0
ECDX=EC wXft .U4C! RATIO             1.4        1.5         1.6               1.Z                       L.3
inco6 DLZEIuUUaU
.aCLrar OF ri.tVrS L.
CEwErVED £1
dLGEST e. OF   aSEOLDS             -_                      _
tiYES? wO2 OF- dOasEOLDS            __         _.
LOJST 201 OF 4KGSL5CAMS             ,_
LowES 4U1 UF .sUDLDS                .. -.
.ST12HAT10 AQ0ULL L0 POWEAlY Lx
LaJ (US$ E  CAPITA
RlS                                 -          --       U33.01c           165.9                     534.Z
.tLAL                               _ __.                E.3.0787.4                                 255.9
ZSsr?Lt.u ALLATEVE rIwtEry LSCRIE
Gau;RL                              _.         ..       133.uli           100.4                     49L.5
CUb;L                              ____                  53.C07            _4.0                    ldUA,
.brLSAThu PuOP feWA AASILZ
eu%rkfl iMi i.L.VE (L.R
U                                   _          _           _               39.5                        .
IM;IA                               _.         ..        35/L              3.0_
SIlt kWALL.ABLL
..r A?FLWULI
s o r e s
/a The groop Avrage. for ebh tdiLcr.c.t at. pop&lattio-w_£pgbEd art£ctlc m_e_. CWvr0 of  emEries amu  chM
Lfdtiatocs dep.0d5 oan AvilabiLity of Jam  and Ls not LmaifOs.
lb  hlless oth.tbtse notad. :1a  foc 19bU- tefer to any rr bt_o 19S9 and 194L;  at  foet 1970  betw.m  19%9 and
L971; nd dat. fur 3o.t iecat C tlJ.ac   betwa  1979 and 19t1.
7C  1977; Id 1976; le *97S; If 19bZ; _;; 191; /b 1966; 1L 1975.
may 1S13



Cal A-                                                                                     fluUif..nM         1-  lJ-1__
TV ~ ~ ~ - M_.   *.nandd        _-I.-d-. w  _
,_fiS~fl  n.Sf-ad      . . al  ia a., -  -...a ._ *_aa    - *     _'
_n.,.. _un 1.1_I -_  -1mS                           5* *iuifml *   *1-I  -   Clii           -"P  -' 13)il*l 0  waaal S.
9- p '  1 V-   %a 'A  u  I-T                    _t-t                          Z             -  ....... .    ..........,_,"_. _A. . . (:I....-
- SW  *TM                 *--   Tl_                                         _- tos1- -  1L& '"6                             =  Ql, 
- (.*                  M                  e ta) T -X        ' P--        -'T_w1w  -"- _--#"  _1X  s1-  
--53 T-- Ii Ji .     '     Ni t.iaz a...-
-  ",II- *,] -0.1  Sn. -).ITfja   uqla. 
._....                                                 A-.2        ~        tg 1a_ - u.au   a..'.  t- t n .9 pu-_a-  _- S. it- -
innm   -asi  -iaf'  .im - us_ e                        - _Sn-  _i Lila _u   -*  -i---  4-a-  *S-:
-@ - 4j-) u -Eu a..l L.A..  t.*  _u ,_ 15a.d s p         l              l    .nlu- *^ ~ffa.  *a J--  _ .[a.    - 4 -.n.
. No-"                                                                                                                      W _ a  or _tS.   S  ota   uw-  h  _  -    a. *.nu *1 wawu  n . t     _
-us. a. a-. -X (asiSa aX Se) u-a  as-  a.e a-s.  waisa                    ~           a   _O.u  *Z  _~_- -...   5a. ulfSa  t.tr) Lns ea
fra                           a     n _   ,l    _              f _ .    *
I-in. *1 sun flI-J.au  rnsi in. .u taP 1           -    S1-_                ai *1-    t. a -_
- _    -                 mft j _ { _ au I    a . -.%   --PI _-              - eJ. as.51 'a-.  I-       --(a           .  t
*-t-t--S~~~~~~~~~~~_  ; :.,P--; e D  '%-I%  eA.    a *_-f Wm Sa
*i    aiPin         l 1dm..a, fFt-a                           _C A.          IF-   --.- S.c    - ,    .  zmsalq_ a-
I-.u=--au'i.i  a.- P-    -.nnsa I.-5          u--f lbmft'u.                _.&wu CZu J- "aa V- J- -.2 CJ- a-.-)  a  a.-IsaI-'5
. W"_ -JU _             _ L -" 'i '   '  _ 'IUSI 'wl                u- ti&  -     11 nu 0.u 5FT-"---S W  p-T-  '-SPi-
3 fin..'5-ft1_     S         r u1 -d _  .n _ 1 lu-lia *1 .n._ -             1        a  a.a _ ,E 59 i at-  '' C C _d    *  .s ah r _ d J. *- CoS
."t    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a  -t                 tf-u. ?" -a r- ~A  ~-Ii-    5  w  .in- -a ., 
imal           Mu.aa.Li~aas'-Mf--uS                 j4da-aE  Sn   .
,Mt :-a   s_ .-9 o-  _. d   Ms _a            ISn _. t-                                      ---W Mal  ci.l   51P.-I
_ip. .u-u-s   u, _u'" - _1. -a-a    a-   I ----                               a-       ai 1 I- XI     pit--v   i5 &.
-u-P* .aia    uta a.n.'..  lnau    nauuS   ..10161                      w  i-I- AP" u-iUa.  p        aWPs    5. cyAn.
- -sa. s-wi ~p u- '          -         - an.. St-ns'                  a-l. J pdsan19 -t       P-ni-a-  n l W. -J ra-a l
--M Snu. Am - .a 2-we.u   1 ---S I--  -m-'sp S   .j. £d   in  -L *                                              I-   n__3 D
--V was v- 001 'ml lnqw nPM5- I-IW -P"   -  - T - l) -                              - "_ - a. _ - '     d_
_, :_ -u u*an a.  _sn    - u        a-n 5u*_w_pa                                           -   m j -   asu .*-n  ?         -
-u-P flu we ilp  ai  ?fsan.   .. _.  .a*.aS t                             .i  _q  _.s             -,       ..*-a-fl __sa_~1-_ _.zz_ea
u I   Va     _ au-I -W1                                    a- -_  u-  ws S  m-    _-'a
_aa _s-ia? _un a.  w a-afl _-* na.j s-i-i _na -       ~fl1flqi.al.1P a' u-nP  Dy.                     fu          - s-t.-
_.u- aat I  us.a                               $_                  P- s" ss?i. .   -s   al_I_   f_  _y v.
u-s  .au- .a. S_               -_a'  .-   _       _i               t5                             -_- w _ . - ] _    i- a*i
j-a -_ - _                                                              -L P-*_ 4-a- -         -.0      *         - -        V-j
_.It-I1-4 A                                                  t- uL    -t '-1- fT' .aa-_ z-                                  *  -  --a.
jff- *-_U_    -.--   - .. -            t an   _.s. a-_t _~*-  pa   a)tna                    ~      *    -asDu-a   -
-S.         at 59 Sf          - lIt ISlP --w                            us. .-s            fn,uas.
_ _uwala.'.- t_aaua -ali  .saan  _-i   _  a. _- u--s.                                                                  nulun- 
WI- (.a.. a.a   _f  P$1*) --_ ~'                                                                  a1 -   0-t -i -a   Dy5.  tO   I  -tt4
I    a_ anL  fl a           i       sS ae SJ           i _-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-v.-m -v-                                             ... . . -~_
-i_   Al oyltI- _D1   !          '  fla- ' mm   _    i                  Da  a. _ iO   - itsa-                   ) *uia -    a  sl
~~~~ ~~~-                                                                                                               .,    tbsv     a*t:W*sX
__- aa _- a.i.a -             -fd                         _ _ )             f lf_a &17-   T- _
a_ad              .                  .        a. a--@    -   *   _      _   - sawa.si  _
anaj au-an, a. ..'.. us - (a,weufl             .i.in -uwaa               a'i-.i u  sTV"                 - at ewa.- -__
~~Wo ~-93_t"" _- ibl*'_~_t_r                               r                                  d^4
S.POFMdt-n_. S -                   ,.                __ a- --                   - a          ,_ _
*aau  .u     a.. ^  la t   nSan  -(                -n-n                  Snpa _  P        a--  1W *  -     (1W~ an  u
-pa. a.-                iS ut -              a -    "-*
-       -a        _lti t;-aB_              aw-n- a                                                   w1aOgl _. 0LDIQI1  az  _a_
-  an a' asa- a.               _PwtI . uaf a 2aM. -Um  - -~-W  P- .i-0 MA-a aSa'fu
-1~~~ ~ ~ ~ a.laf   a- IP'a _- Ca~a.--l-Dua1-                                                    a-) u_W t-a we 0U   u    -1
m- -_ *- 'CZ           at-.---v  -6 v-    _a I                                                       e '
tlfi*s_ _S t _ruu__-i   - _ts l  t-   l" Oa)       Vau- t                    m s -In
__ __,  1WA             . a. as-. -   -            .- c. n                           n-u-i M -sIw ,n  _, =d C
lflWa-  AsSn  .l-t 3                                                                   Va- --anp, i flt--mi 1W
Au-ian   -   - a.au - eu-f u- ai  u           u-'r _ t _ow ft
an u-- luIlia. n a-    sIn  su   laAin-Sia afs-- Sn   -                           - a' -I_ -"- 
Sau              -ft A-W .u- ni   --W "-uau,   I."  5     la.  %;
A-   -fi f      .  u-l -a WtI - M -          n   . ...
_ v _ _ _ ^ _"_-_ 1 ~ ~ ~~~2-  _ _"                                       - "__ _
t_~~~~-                 MS-  ft           _         1> _ s 3.  _gM I-0  _m _f@t OWN-   _Slr. - w_P_S
NW"u-.  -F-  am"a OLI- W    a' 1.91=  -RN-nu-   mi
IA. a    Iu I- &u- a- u- - I-8'a P- wn             a-
--o- lw                          ~~-.   fi  a.         V."li    Afui A-   -M
_dI-lainin. sialItin Ia-S we ~a- 1fl.a a.              ifiis  a-fl-a mm  A-  'alt__s u - " P    a  -           -
ii V_-FM -_   a_ - 4-mt"I S-.- 5  -inM           sf-v l -a                u
*lOtt W .S_m _-lu-                  a       a        m                     a   ' _- WI a-i                  ft"i N.flfl  im.      a--
-a- P1W                   n~~-s.p fsiquesflu a'.q  AiuM is - .u-1  
~                    u-tan   uuu- -_uiP"n.   ui-p 1-l - u,In                             Sn        a _ u t       _   _- t
lan    W ftM a ln.                                                   n a_lo  _a  _           *A     *     -  At _hl au-
dvW-  M   _             - , ,^___  no    V1_ __-- - J_
a   w- sa      --u-    n- na    .   -u-t 1u- a. fu                                    an.. iatza'am s-a -.in        1 au-a   *Mlo
IM1111129     MA    - _u-a- -   i-alas _*a  a-a'                             _l
IF=  Wi-a'-Sn-            p  ~.   5  a-I      ""u ii 'a-                 -  -        - adnuafll  V-usaun.'       -     gA-1
fla      t- '1t M"             a -_                                                     -      - *   -;WN a
PM 400  _FW  _Atf   _           _tf                                    tatE _q-f  _    _   t     -                   _
_orponom st      - iFuve zl         I -s       a. aw   Wa Al_on t_  _-
_-ess-8"                                                              -a -a _ _a.--
a- s-da-                                                                                               GN  duas-')
-a-a  Au- u-u- an a'siuiaa DylPswomU"iDoy-Xtp  0-
a-    .-I-a- I-SnA.'I-i.ftt _-                                                   nw        _  =     -    t_ a-ia   -
Ism1WaiSa   toi.".            Ma' a      1        -                   upa 14.m-       ngm la     u-uamse-oml   0
UW_M __t _ M.  __   _% 1t   t
_ __MI ul   l          S"     a   -s"   nu    aN an  _-a                                     - n    "
ma-u- Stiai1W ' Sn a__ - -or              an _-   _ ANO                                                            i  Wm
I-a- u-lu-WI we 1       u-ill im Sa.A-%    a'n- .fl       1soon        -WS-A -                                                                a
_'n-) a-u- * ___I-ww"_            I-u-q^_nA .m             i__    VWIJ as __
at  u-   - WAMm ama                                            51   as~p151W11  am"" Poma' I-la- a  a-a'go  we-W
niaf a'-a   -epupaa--a                                                                                                          -
1W  u-I'_we_-__ _ _ _i__ _- _            -        _
r___-s___-_-                  n_4___-a---a-a ~
I ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    i   Wu1     a-~la .                         a-  1W 
_ _ _ __
1 Vi IVA V AdG  1S39



-26 _
Page 4sf S
GP   t C_Pt  IN lUit 0330
camSS nIaL nuar in logzun                                 ACMiL WE OF mlru (Z. ainr  1912 fti1 S)
ass Nllion      Z                     19n - so      1980 - 32
GI? at lsrkat Prices           1.403.0       100.0                    3.0        - 2.0
C~ea Dogma*tic Inet..t           337.5       24.0                     7.3            -
Cram. Uatloa  Savings            14.6        12.0                      -             -
Currnt Accout Dalace a           172.9       12.0                      -             -
Exprts of Coods, I3S             426.3       30.0                     5.8        - 15.2
lwort of Goods. QPS              608.6       43.0                     6.1        - 15.1
OUTPUT LAOU 7PRQ AND
?KazwTrf In 1952
Vs  .dd(F cubr Cost)
A  i -itat                       40         32.0
lamsg                            136         10.0
In&-tY                           308        20.0
Service.                         S59        38.0
TOTAL                 1.503       100.0
Central C     _vernot
(CIA? ULIlIUo)                      Z of Cm
1974j1975 1979/1980 198111982       197I     1980      1t93
c.rrt  1eW_ws                 22.4      74.7     7O.1           3.4      17.0     14.0
of wich    Sm               (2.5)   (17.5)   (12.5)           (1.3)     4.0      3.0
crren Ieittrn                 17.3     48.3      56.9          10S      11.0     t2.0
current                        4.9      26.4     13.Z           2.9       6.0      3.0
Capital tupe§Aiture            1.9      S8.9     78.9           1.1      14.0     15.0
ZxterIaM *A.iatu..
verall saace                   3.0    -32.5   -65.7             1.8        .0     13.0
Mu. cDDrr AND PUCIS
1971     972    1973    1974       197       1976      197      1973       1979    1980      19e1     132.
now" end Q8ai IbN                  12.1    12.9    15.5    20.3       22.3      29.3      37.2     54.2       84.7    77.9       4.1       0
Baok credt tO Public Sector        -2.3    -3.S    -3.4    -7.2    -11.3       -12.3    -16.      -11.9      -1831    -7.3      -3.0      1S.3
Bonk credt to Private Sector        9.7    10.7    12.3    21.0       28.3      28.6      32.7     54.2       7.3     3.8    100.9    12.7
PNEDUIAcD  01 DMO  eINs
aCur  Pric_ rne  (1970 - 100)   104.Z   114.5   IZ7.8   132.1    144.1          178.1    219.2    241.6      259.2    285.9   351.4    392.3
An-eL percenage cbhne. In:
Genral trice 1ndz                           9.3    11.7      3.4       9.1      23.6      23.0     10.2        7.3    10.3      22.9      120
Dak croedt to Pubic Sector
Z_ak eredt to Private Seetor               10.3    16.1    68.0       357        0.4      14.3     6S.7       37.S    17.6      13.6      1t.7
Staff aetinle
loIt le-liab3



- 27 -
AIIEX I
Page 5 of 5
aOUmI DNrA - NIGIER
TRAD  PANENS lED CAPITAL. nWS
(in millins of eorr.nt 055)
BALANCE OF PAYErS                  1975      19301    1982                          NUMCADISIt PIETS: (Annual Average: 1980-1982)
Eaports of CoodS. MFS              1b7.8    660.2    426.3                                                          tlSS Mlio1n       2
Ineorts of roods. 8W5              226.5    927-1    608.6
Resurce Cap (deftcLt =--)         -5.7   -26b.9   -182.3                             Lietoct                             73.4        16.0
Uran                               361.2        79.0
Others                              22.0         5.0
1nteres~?aynePt (set)             -10.7    -55.8    -73.3                              TOrAL                            656.o       100.0
;orkere  Reitta nee-              -18.7    -5 .5    -24.6
Other Factor Income (net)            3.0      -          -                                 AL DUT, DhCOIM 31. 1982
Net Transfer*                       77.1      99.4    107.1
1a1lance of Current Accounts         8.0   -2W8.    -17Z.9                           Publlc Deb. includig guaranteed   603.4
Ionbcaranteed Private Debt         120.7
Totl outtanding and disbursd       72 .1
Direct Foreign Investment (net)     15.8      -         -
Net MLT Borrovinga                  17.0    190.3      27.8                          DEW SEQVICE RATIO for 1982
- Disbursements                  (18.8)      -        -                            Public  ebt, Including Dwarnteed    26
- Repayments                      (1.8)      -        -                            Ion-Cuarantead  Privte Debtb        12
Total outstanding and diSblrid      38
Other Item  1/                     -19.8      77.6     86.7
IDIIDA Landing. Augut 17. 1983
Chanmes in Reserves (end of  ear)    5.0      -9.1    460.4
Foreign Reserves (end of year)      51.4    125.9      29.6                         Ouratanding and dsburmd             102.5
Fuel and Related Materlals          12.8      8.0      10.0                          undibb ed                          l08.0
as 2 of [uports                                                                    Outstnsdtng includin  uadiaburad   210.5
RATE OF EXOIANCE
19)71             MS1 .00 - CrA? Z77.03
1972              US$1.00 - CrAT 252.21
1973              USS1.00 - CFAF 222.70
1974              US$I100 - CFAF 240.50
1975              USSI.00 - CPAF 214.32
1976              US1SI.00 - CPA? 245.00
1977              US$1.00 - CPA? 245.00
1978              UIS$100 - CPA? 220.00
1979              USM1.00 - CPA? 212.72
1980              IS$I100 - CFAF 211.30
1981              US$1.00 - CPA? Z71.73
1982              US1.00 - CrA? 328.62
1/ Including errors and cemieaions.
Staff escimates



- 28 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS 1/
(as of December 31, 1983)
Borrower: Republic of Niger
USSMillion
Credit       Fiscal                              Amount (less cancellation)4/
Number        Year            Purpose              IDA 2/  3/   Undisbursed
Twelve credits fully disbursed                     47.2
612         1976     Third Highway                  15.6           0.6
851         1978     Irrigation                     15.0           0.3
885         1979     Livestock                      12.0            6.3
886         1979     Feeder Roads                   10.0           2.8
967         1979     Dosso Agricultural Dvt.        20.0          18.2
1026         1980     Second Naradi Rural Dvt.       16.7          12.4
1151         1981     Education                      21.=          14.2
1225         1982     Industrial Development         16.0          11.8
1226         1982     Second Forestry                10.1           7.8
1309         1983     Water Supply                    6.5           6.4
1394         1983     Fourth Highway                 23.6          22.9
Total                         214.2         103.7
of which has been repaid      (2.9)
Total now outstanding         211.3
and held by IDA
Total undisbursed                           103.7
B.  STATEMET OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1983
Loan                                          Amount
Number    Year    Borrower       Purpose      of loan   Equity Undisbursed
-  USS Million----- ---
619-NIR  1982    Les Moulins    Flourmill      2.22      0.33      1.84
du Sahel
S.A.(NDS)
1/ The status of the projects listed in part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments
3/ Computed at the rate of the approval dates
4/ Computed at the December 31, 1983 rate of 1.04695



- 29 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first presented to IDA: July 1982
(b) Agency which prepared the project: MOP/MOF/MOC/ ADETEF/
UNDTCD/IDA
(c)  Time taken to prepare the project: one year
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: March 1983
(e) Completion of negotiations:
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
Section II. - Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III. - Special Conditions
(a) The Nigerien staff trained under the project for less than six months
would be required to remain in the Ministry for which they are
intended for at least one year, and those trained for more than six
months will be required to remain for at least three years (para.
74).
(b) IDA will discuss guidelines for staff selection and replacement, to
ensure stability and continuity in project implementation (para. 74).
(c) The Government shall open a Special Account in a local commercial
bank acceptable to IDA (para. 70).



ANNEX IV
Tabte I
NICER
YlNISTRY OF PLAN
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
STATE SECRETARY
|SECRETARY GENERAL|
PANNIG     ROJECT              PULIC INVESENT                SATISTICAL                DEVELOPMENT PROMOTON             COMPUTER
LUArION DEPARTET |                                              DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT
Human Resources                rExernal Financing            General Statistics         Research & Training           lnformation
Administration                FNI (National invest-        Financial & Adninis-       Operational Services          Systems
Economic Analysis               ment Fund)                   trative Services           Audio-visual                  Coordination
World Food Program                                           Accounting                 Administrative Services       Studies a
Sectoral Planning                                            Publications                                             Methodologies
Regional Planning                                            Surveys a Demographics
Evaluarion



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Table 2
NICER
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF STATE
&
CABINET
MINISTER DELEGATE
CABINEr
SECRETARY GENERAL
CENTRAL
ADMINISTRATION
ADMINISTRATIVE            FINANCIAL                    FISCAL                NATIONAL                 ANNME
DEPARTMENTS     |   | ADMTINISTRATION            ADMINISTRATION            TREASUR                 SERVICES
[ Administration              Budget                   Customs               General Treasury            Topography
L Financial Planning          Public Accounts          Taxes                 Department Treasuries       National '.ottery
Public Debt                                                               National Park &
External Finance                                                          Fleet Administration
Financial Control
Parastatal Audit



..uI;ag~~~~~~~~~~~ t------                          ........
IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A~~~~~~~~~~~ri
--- --- -- --- --- -- --- --
.~~~~~ ~ ........... .......



Ana. IV
3C103t0 IID  hIIUC4AL NiNiDYlO    ImPiOVmRU? PF01tC?
coxitim  puECTItON. iipirr  AXosV        tc
non"s comiin                              mrcinus                                   PROJnCt ImPUS                                                             oCmrsnv
Proelct Nansmeot Unit            -   nroll projcot saeient snd                Consulflts (36  /"a)                     -  inAlscig ?OR for  gnasultants sod preparation a4d proce.sina of eqoipuant supply.
coordiostion                            - ccocotant (local) (60 s/a)               . Spervision of selectbon protess for shave.
- Support stff (60 s/)                     _ CcofJlnatico  sod supervision of project ispleasotatioC.
- t4uisatt and supplies                    _  aasot of po3ct ttnane.
A.  soeosis atuise
i.  aiiiAteefl&d                                                            - Conoultants (7 *hs)                         Analysis of short snd asi-t  rs isaplicationa of pAblic invastatot pngirLs.
flsSiaLJ~~~~~~~~~~shh.                                                               - ls~~~~~~~~Rcommend corrective measures to utabttlic   gaovAnatn finAncial situation within
thet foaework of the IR Standby Prognsa.
2.  S nol AJunuct
- Ptrsatatat l tor                                                       - Consultants (46 s/a)                     -nalysis of internal and actarnal conatosiata faced by the sacir.
Diangatis Studies                                                        Office specs, *quoipoat and supplies  -Anlysfis cr financial relstionabip between the sector, tb  CoTOrannt and tbe
baknhig cystst.
- Local staff (60 ./.)                     . Ieasondatione concerning inatitutinnal raforam to prepare rehabilitation  of thb
sector.
- RIsabitatitin  Studis                                                  * Cnaunltants (70 a/a)                     -*finitico of rehabilitation programs for selected public
sntsrpriuis.
- Offic space
* Bpplies
Lal stiff (60 Osn) a
- flier Baster Studies                                                  * tb  4014dce4                              - Studies to uasit in fornluting a stouciral a4justsint progrm.
3.  Protest dAreisal Studies                                                - Conultants (20 s/a)                     - Scoonic appraisal of selected projects of national insortuce.
3.  Xnatitution-Suildina                                                                                                                                                                                                                   _
1.  tisistry of Plan
- Public laveataoat          - Public Inessnent programing sad    - Consultants (24 s/a)                             Daficition snd establisbacot of inastnst istorsation systs.
Department             budgeting                                - SiLpsent tad suppliess                      Davelopmeot and update of infornation ont
- ForeigO  reeource aobilizstion          - Local staft  (60 a/)                               public -  lio inratant program
- financLal ispliatiena of its isptsentatiun
its ispact on national *coaoqy.
Strengthening of tinmanial analysis and b*dgesing capability.
* Conaulidsted annual p.bli  inroetnent buhogts.
* Statistical Depctuant   - Provision of updstsd eoccein               - Coualtants (24  /)                          Vpdeting of  ationl-I scunts. bslance of paue     and foreinn
tiosnois  nd sootel statistics                                                        tode 71843.
-  quip-nt and supplies                  - Istablisbast of ispreTl satho    of *tatistical data ocllestion. analysis. patolicta .
-Local stakff (340 s/ui) 
- Cosputer Departent         - Detinition snd euperridain cs           - of  C ultant  (24 s*a)                    - Devlopent of additional prory-e  in support of the etatistical
national dta proessing Strategy                                                      and public invastant departant..
- Provision of computer esrules to
the Ninistry of Plan an otkhr
public agantewc.
2. uinistrw of Pinncs
. Pinnoisi Plannin           - Oveftll budget control                  - consultasts (30 s/a)                      - Provision er
Depertunt                  -  bort nd  edim-ton  projeotion          - Bquipsent sod supplies                            continuous b4igat aooLtortne
of goverronnt finnLal situation    - Locl Staff (180 a/) *                                - periodic *ediia-te rn financial projection.
- publin Debt Dpartuoat   - Kaaevant of deatic ano forsign   - Consultants (24 s/a)                                - Isprovosaet of public debt ussaneasot.
public debt                             - sqipent and supplies                     - Cosputsrisatico  of public debt data.
- Local staft (60 a/a) a
*oovemonat fisansne.



hez IV
Table D (ractivmwd)
ICOONZ  NO IIIC 0oiflU.iUim HFmOlUf, izOJ
noJUC! CO0IN3U                  FNICTIONS                               NIWPTS                                                               03JliTIu
- liecal usiistratioo    - Defisntion  of tiseal                    - Consultants (90 a/m)                   - Cotguterizatino otf
poliotoe                              -  Iuiplpt end suppliss                        - personal Itoeo  Icu a*eals eraliam
- Vz collection                         - Local staff (240 rJs) *                      - *uatom olmrsacs proceduros and foreign trade epr;tioos
_ private property rngistratiax sd taztiow.
- Ieprore_at of nlow of Qitormatios btwoeem Irmntury, Public
£coauntin Departnat, Piscal Udaiaistrution.
O.   Srais
- StatistiosL iosistato                                              -  upplwaet aelargsl  tor local          - Rebuilding of statistical departnest.
trailers
- 0 two-year local s*holarships
-   uipeut a  supplies
* Eg-1e4vl Staff                                                     - 10 fotr-yoest averesn    sholeanta p   - Trasii-a of Statisticians. *eu_gsp  rs. fiassial atlytst. r tr  -uelst.
- 20  SI.ooth aversroue eQholarehips    - hsprorn tt of skills of currant bi-lavol staff.
- MId-Level Staff                                                      Office spce aad supplies.              - ftaillarising aid-level staff with t odor data proeseal tr4    hni a* 4   through
demoostration ad hands de espriaes.
- Seaman                                 (Que)                       - (Cest speaker/lecturers vill be        - Diocussion of ugetu  related to oaordinatioa NW cooperatior In socul* aed tfitial
Invited for this purpose)                .anegeal.
P. Additioual Technical                                                 - ceaultants and eqaipmt                 - hilow-op of present istitution-bldin  ooailtrae te d.
Insistence                                                                                              - U- alsatlo  of trsalag capebtlitiee of local  stitutlos, partilclarly tb-
S30le hktitoal l dainittoa sd the prq. uttea of an ia-eervice twlaing pros.e
for civil servsats Involved is project attlv5ssi.
- studies to "slat Is famlatiag a atrmatucl adjstmet proram
oeroet afinaned.



-35                                                         No=X IV
Table 5
IcoiC  AND FINCUIL    AI1 lto1nNT  noJmu
iCUrllO. TISU BOSSIUIIC
Hen/Months         VItSA/I                  VIM                   _ m7                   VII                     Vn
Prosect Moualemugft Unit
- Advlsor                   3b                                           3660
- Accountant                 30                                                                         -0
- Support Staff r'0                                                                                     60
- Equipment
A.  cronoh1e StudSee
1. Publitc lnvetint and
Firian.cial Studio.
- Short-term
tonsult nta               7        7
2. Structural AdJu-t_nt
Studios
Paraftatal Dfioatic Study
- Short-ter
coneultante              46          46
- 1aCl Staff               60          60
- Equipeent
Rehabilitation Studles
- Short-term
consultants              70                         70
- Local Staff              60             _
3. Project AppraiOal Studies
- Short-term
conoultanto            20                    10                     10
N. Inotitution-building
Kln1itry *f Plan
1. Public Investment Dept
- Advisor                    is                       12                                     3                     3
- Short-te
coaultntn                 6    _   6
- Local staff              60                  _60
- Equiptent
2. Statistical and Conu
ter Dopert  taa
- Short-tore
coaultat                46                   10                  10                       9                    9                       1
- LocAl Staff             360                                                                          360
Nlinitrt of FinA3ce
1. rinancial Pltnnig opt
- dvisor                   24                              11                           2                      2                     2
- Short-tare
consultnt.                6           6
- LoCal Staff              ISO                                                               I_ 110
- Iquip_nt



-38-~ ~~                                         -          )i
-c - iinsmiinmmrU
mw mr _ nw nnrn. ?m  m
2. pubiZe Owtnpnm
-_t                     8                       12                           3                      3
_  XCZ~~~~~~~~Z
-      sm.l Sg2          e0         -S
20            20
_-  -t -
rpmlaq                30                4 _0                                                         2                  3
-1 KnE SKf              Z                                                                          20
einmltmZa             20                                  1s                                         3                  2
- S-s3
C.   * _ taft  - 
_0  A   ,tlm   nehlcl



- 37 -
Awne  nv
Table 6
NIcER
ECONOMC AND FrANCIAL MiNUZWNEYIDPOVDEMEN  PROJECY
BREAIDOU OF PROJECT COST 1/
Hanalbnths    Local Cost   Foreign Cost   Total Cost
Project Management Unit                                   36.000        470.000         506.000
Consultant                             36              -           450,000         450,000
Accountant                             60            24,000           -             24,000
Support Staff                          60            12,000           -             12,000
Equipment and Supplies                  -              -            20,000          20,000
A. Economic Studies
1. 7ublic Investment and Financial
Situation Study                                   -            87.500          87.500
Consultants                             7              -            87,500          87,500
2. Structural Adiustment Studies                       180.000      1,560,000       1.740.000
- Parastatal Sector Diagnostic Study
Consultants                         46              -           575,000        575,000
Offices                              -            10,000           -             10,000
Zquipment and Supplies               -              -            80,000          80,000
Local Staff                         60            70,000           -             70,000
- Rehabilitation Studies
Consultants                         70              -           875,000         875,0O0
Offices                              -            30,000           -             30,0O0
Supplies                             -              -            30,000          30,0O0
Local Staff                         60            70,000           -             70.000
3. Project Appraisal Studies                                          250.000         250.WO
Consultants                          20              -           250,000        250,000
B. Institution-Building
1. Ministry of Plan                                    2C4.000      1,055,000      1.259.000
- Public Investment Department
Consultants                         24              -           300,000         300,000
Equipment and Supplies               -              -            40,000          40,000
Local Staff                         60            24,000           -             24,000
- Statistical Departmet
Consultants                         22              -           275,000         275,000
Equipment and Supplies               -              -           140,COO         140,000
Local Staff                        360           180,000           -            180,000
- Cobuter Department
Consultants                         24              -           300,000         300,000



-38-
AE  IV
Table 6 (continued)
NIGER
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT  iR OVENNT PROJECT
BREAKDOW  OF PROJECr COST 1,
Man/Months   Local Cost    Foreig  Cost   Total Cost
2. Ministry of Finance                                 284,000      2,280.000      2.564.000
- Financial Planning Department
Consultants                         30              -           375,000        375,000
Equipment and Supplies               -              -            90,000         90,000
Local Staff                        180            90,000           -            90,000
- Public Debt Department
Consultants                         24              -           300,000        300,000
Equiep nt and Supplies               -              -            40,000         40,000
Local Staff                         60            24,000           -            24,000
- Fiscal Admliistration
Consultants                          90              -         1,125,000      1,125,000
Equipment and Supplies               -            50,000        350,000        400.000
Local Staff                        240           120,000           -           120,000
C. Training                                              120.000        665.000        785.000
- Mid-Level Statisticians                             80,000         40,000        120,000
- High-Level Staff (10 four-year
scholarships)                                                   350,000        350,000
- Short-term training of 20 bigh-
level staff                          -              -            75,000         75,000
- On-the-job training                    _            20,000         80,000        100,000
- Seminars (6)                           -            20,000        120,000        140,000
D. Additional Technical Assistance                       286.000      2.500.000      2.786.000
Base Cost                                -         1,110,000      8.867.500      9.977.500
1/ Project costs are net of taxes



ANNEX IV
Table 7
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMC NT IIPROVE4ErT PROJECT
BRBAKDOWN OF PROJECT COST BY COMPONENTS AND OUrLAYS
Local                                                                        Unallocated
Consultants        Salaries      Scholarships      Equipment      Supplies            Rent           in Us5         Total
1.  ProJect Kanag.mAnt Unit              450000            36000            -15,000                         5.000            -                -           506000
11.  Economic Studlem                  1.787,500          140,0             -              54,000          56.000         40.000             -         2.077.500
- Public inveustent and
financial eltuation               87,500             -              -                -               -               -
- Parastatel diagnostic study        575,000           70,000           -              54,000          26,000         10,000
- Parzstatal follow-up studies       675,000           70,000           -                -             30,000         30,000
- Project appraisal studies          250,000            -               -                -              -                -
III.  Ministry of Plan                   675.000          204.000           -             122.000          58,000             -                -       1.259.000
- Publitc Investment Department      300,000           24,000           -              30,000          10,000            -                -
- Statistical Department             275,000          180,000           -              92,000         48,000             -
- Computer Department                300,000            -               -                -               -                -
IV.  Ministry of Finance              1.100.000           234.000           -             396.000         134.000                                      2.564.000
- Financtal Planning Dept.           375,000           90,000                          83,000           7,000             -
- Public Debt Department             300,000           24,000                          30,000          10,000            -                -
- Fsecal administration            1,125,000          120,000           -             283,000         117,000             -
V.  Trainina                             200.000           I000           475.000          30.000          70.000             -                -          765.000
VI.   rovision for additionlT.A            -                 -              -                -               -                -          2.786.000     2.786.000
lasa Coec                      5,112.500           624.000         475.000        617,000         323.000          40.000        2.786.000      9.977.300
Contingencies                   1,362,500          146,000         125,000        168,000          82,000          10,000          729,000      Z,622,500
Current Cost                   6.475,000           770.000        600.000         765.000         405.000          50.000        3.515.000    12.600.000
Financial Plan
- IDA                              6,475,000          230,000         600,000         785,000         405,000          50,000       3,155,000    11,700,000
- Government                            -             540,000           -                -               -              -             360,000        900,000



-40-
AhIllE IV
Table 8
uGR
ECONOMIC AND FINANCAL MNAGMENT  W620VEMENr PROJECr
LIST Or EQOIPNE
Uss
Quantity    Price     Value
I.   Proiect Manageaent Unit                               15.000
Transport equlpment              1       6.000    6,000
Office equipment
- Pbotocopier and binder     - 1       6,500    6,500
- Typewriter                   1       1,000     1.000
- Furniture                                      1,500
1I.  Ministry of Plan                                     121,900
Public Investment Departuent
Transport equipment (4WD)        1      15.000    15.000
Offlce quipeent
- micro comter                 I      15.000    15.000
Statistical Departent
Tansport equipment
- 4WD                          1      15,000    15.000
- Ordinary vehicules          3        6,000    18.000
- Scooters                    3          600    1.800
Office equipment
- Photocopier                  1       6,000    6,000
- Binder                       1         500       SOO
- Nicro computer              2       15.000   30,000
- Caleulator-printer          10         180    1,800
- Simple calculators         20           40       800
Office funiture                -          -       18.000
II1. Ministry of Finuace                                  396,860
Financial Planning Department
Office equipment
- Air conditioning             3       2.650    7.950
- Typewriter (Topephere)       1       1,000     1,000
- Typewriter (ordinary)        1         410       410
- Photocopier                  1       6.000    6,000
- Binder                       1         500       SOO
- Calculators                 10         150    1.500
- Computer (configuration
not yet determined)         -         -       50,000
Office furniture                -         -       15.000
Flscal Mnagment
Personal income tax
- Mainframe computer (DPS4)    1      96,000   96.000
- Screens                     2        2,000    4.000
- Disks packs                160         100   16,000
- Accesory equlpment          -         -          500
Public accouting
- Screer-i                     6       2,000   12.000



- 41l -
ANNEX IV
Table 8
(continued)
NIGER
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LIST OF EQUIPMENT
USS
Quantity    Price      Value
Customs
- Mini computer configura-
tion of 5 working stations    4 )               120,000
- Printers                      2 )
- Nodems                        8         1,500    12,000
- Controllers                   4        3,000    12,000
- Disk storage unit             1       12,000    12,000
Public Debt Department
- Micro computers               2        15,000    30,000
Iv.   Training                                                29.700
Statistical assistants Program
Office equipment
- Photocopier                   1        6,000      6,000
- Typewriter                    1         1,000     1,000
- Slide-projector               1           700       700
- Mini computer                 1       15,000    15,000
Office furniture                  -         -         7,000
V.  Parastatal Rehabilitation Studies               53.950
Transport equipment               2       10,000    20,000
Air conditioning                  3        2,650      7,950
Typewriter                        2           500     1,000
Office furniture                  -         -        24,000
Total Base Cost                                   617,410



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Table 9
NIGER
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MUNAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECRT FILE - LIST OF DOCUMENTS
1.       Report on the development of-progressive Computerization of Public
Finance Management - ADETEP.
2.       Budget implementation monitoring system - ADETEF.
3.       Computerization of Public Debt Management - ADETEF.
4.       Technical assistance to the Statistical Department of the  inlistry of
Plan - UNDP.
5.       Training program for the Ministries of Plan and Finance - ADETEF.
6.       Functional analysis of Public Investment programming - PROMOCI.
7.       Technical assistance to the Public Investment Department of the
Ministry of Plan - PROKOCI.
8.       Twinning arrangement protocol between the Nigerien Government and the
French Ministry of Finance.
9.       Government and Ministerial Decrees
a. Functions and administrative organization of the Ministry of
b. Functions and administrative organization of the Ministry of
Finance.
c. Establishbent of the Project Management Unit.
d. -Bstablishment of the Interministerial Project Coordination
Committee.
e. Establishment of the Steering Interministerial Committee for
the preparation of the parastatal sector rehabilitation.
f.  Establishment of Interministerial Vorking Group in charge of
the parastatal rehabilitation studies.
10.      Terms of Reference
a. Parastatal sector diagnostic study.
b. Public investment, public debt and government financial
situation review.
c. Advisor to the Project Nanagement Unit.
d. Financial planning consultant to the Financial Planning
Department (Ministry of Finance).



Ig4n4nbioel Midiin
REPUBLIC OF NIGER                                 I B Y A                  16
-- - epartmerin  boundaries                                           ADMINISTRATIVE
-22   --.------------ Distrkt boundaries
22                                                                                                                                                          2
National capital/                                                                                                                          22
*      Departmmnt seat                                                  /2.i
*      District seat                                                                           ,
o      Adminstrative center
°0    1 9°       2010   13100g%                                                       
0      50    100    ISO    200
is,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
M        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-18                                                .1        __                  ___________...           /_                 _            _
A1ec%  A      w&g~ L. I                      >sXi  i,-
O " A b a I uGel .,,                        _           ._       _ _ _ _ _
X~~~~~~~~~~~ *ui-                                      r     _____
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~________                              __________________ ____i/____  I/
Bo*nkr. /1  S                                                                              _____
14'  Toro                                                   __-
p~~~~j~~~~~~~je       ...   .   ...                                            ...........                          14 '
'-"       As'','',,7jr.>h
U PPE R
V O L T A                     wyo4,                          N    I  G   E  R I       A 0i
BENIN       *-."_ d                         N ( OGER                                                                                     16*



