)FICIAL    'CREDIT NUMBER 1493 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated             <3                 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1493 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    3            , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (hereinaf er 711ed the Borrower or Niger) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development   Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Management Unit" is the unit responsible for
the daily management of the Project, established within the
Borrower's Ministry of Planning by the Borrower's Ministerial
Arret6 No. 034/MP/DI, dated September 14, 1983.
(b) "Interministerial Project Coordination Committee" is
the committee responsible for the overall coordination of the
Project execution, established by the Borrower's Ministerial
Arrete No. 033/MP/DI dated September 14, 1983.


﻿-2-
(c) "ADETEF" means Association pour le Developpement des
Echanges en Technologie Economique et Financiere", a non-profit
organization affiliated to the Ministry of Finance of the
Republic of France.
(d) "ADETEF Agreement" means the Agreement dated Septem-
ber 23, 1983 between the Borrower and ADETEF by which ADETEF has
undertaken to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part C
of the Project.
(e) "Project   Preparation   Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 11, 1982,
January 26, 1983 and September 2, 1983 between the Borrower and
the Association.
(f) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement.
(g) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eleven million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 11,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and


﻿- 3 -
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in CFAF a special account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Aseociation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request, (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.


﻿Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 1994, and ending
February   1,  2034, each   installment   to  and  including   the
installment payable on February 1, 2004, to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its Ministries of Planning and Finance with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services, staff in adequate numbers and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the Minister of State
for Planning shall be in charge of the administrative coordina-
tion of the Project between Ministries responsible to carry it
out and to this effect shall operate the Project Management Unit,
to be headed by the Director of Investment Programming in the
Ministry of Planning, and operate the Interministerial Project
Coordination Committee.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall not later than January 1,
1985 employ consultants and experts whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association, such consultants and experts to be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
facilitate tie work of said consultants and experts, cooperate


﻿- 5 -
fully with them in the performance of their services, and make
available to them all such information, staff and office facili-
ties as shall be necessary or useful to the successful execution
of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall assign qualified and experienced
professional staff in adequate numbers in its departments and
agencies responsible for the carrying out of the Project to work
with said consultants and experts.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure: (i) that staff trained, for at least 6 months under
Part D of the Project, shall remain in the employment of the Bor-
rower and assigned to the same Ministries for at least one year
after completing their training; and (ii) that staff trained for
a longer period of time under Part D of the Project, shall remain
in the employment of the Borrower and assigned to the same
Ministries for at least three years after completing their train-
ing.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall through the Project Manage-
ment Unit ensure coordination between the Project and other tech-
nical assistance programs in the Ministries of Planning and
Finance.
Section 3.05. For purposes of assisting the Borrower in the
carrying out of Part B (2) of the Project:
(a) The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1984, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, enter into
an agreement with an organization acceptable to the Association.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not modify, waive or terminate the above agreement
or the ADETEF Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports and contract documents for the Project, and any Tnaterial
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at quarterly intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records, including separate accounts, adequate to


﻿-7-
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the Special Account and
the accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Sec-
tion for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause all plants, equip-
ment, vehicles and facilities included in the Project to be
maintained in accordance with appropriate administrative and
financial practices and shall provide promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified


﻿-8-
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that Ministerial
Arret6 No. 034/MP/D1 or Ministerial Arrete No. 033/MP/D1, both
dated September 14, 1983, governing the Project Management Unit
and the Interministerial Project Coordination Committee, respec-
tively, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying
out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that either event spe-
cified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Special Account has been
opened in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date   OcIo e3,    /c   i   e    is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
dEsignated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey
Niger


﻿-9-
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIPLAN                            5463 CND
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (W UI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By/s          0~4e/ rgC
V         Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/               e
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Consultants               5,050,000          100% of foreign
and experts                                 expenditures
(2) Training and                570,000          100%
fellowships
(3) Vehicles and              1,118,000          100%
equipment
(4) Supplemental                220,000          30%
salaries
for training
officers
(5) Office rent                  47,000          100%
(6) Initial deposit              95,000         Amount due under
in Special                                 paragraph 3 of
Account to pre-                             Schedule 4 to
finance goods                               this Agreement
and services
under catego-
ries (1) to
(5) above
(7) Refunding of                940,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                                of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated               2,960,000
TOTAL              11,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Bor-
rower's urgent need to undertake economic studies, in order to
design an econonic and financial consolidation program and a
long-term   structural   adjustment   program;   and    (ii)   the
strengthening of the Borrower's Ministries of Planning and
Finance in the field of economic and financial management and
planning. To that end, the Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Economic Studies
1.   Carrying out of a study     of the Borrower's public
investment program and its general financial situation.
2.   Carrying out of structural adjustment studies:
(a) a diagnostic study of the Borrower's parastatal
sector;
(b) follow-up studies to define rehabilitation pro-
grams for selected public enterprises; and
(c) other sector studies.
3.   Carrying out of project appraisal studies.
Part B:   Ministry of Planning
1.   Strengthening the Investment Programming Department by:
(a) the defloition and establishment of an investment
information system; and
(b) the improvement of its financial analysis and
budgeting capabilities.
2.   Strengthening the Statistical Department by:
(a) the up-dating of national accounts; and
(b) the improvement of metads of statistical analysis
and publication.


﻿- 14 -
3.   Strengthening the Computer Center    to enable it to
support the Investment Programming and Statistical
Departments.
4.   Acquisition and utilization of equipment and office
supplies for the above activities.
Part C:   Ministry of Finance
1.   Establishment of a Financial Planning Department.
2.   Strengthening of the Borrower's fiscal management by
the computerization of:
(a) personal income tax administration processes;
(b) customs clearance procedures and the recording of
foreign trade operations; and
(c) private property registration and taxation.
3.   Strengthening of the Public Debt Department by:
(a) the improvement of public debt management; and
(b) the computerization of the public debt data base.
4.   Acquisition and utilization of equipment and office
supplies for the above activities.
Part D:   Joint Training Program for the Staff of the
Ministries of Planning and Finance
1.   Training of 30 statistical assistants.
2.   Training  in  economic  and  financial  management  of
high-level staff by provision of: (a) 10 four-year
scholarships to train abroad; and (b) 20 six-month
scholarships abroad   to improve   skills  of existing
staff.
3.   Improvement of skills of mid-level staff by training in
Niger and on-the-job training to familiarize such staff
with modern data processing methods.


﻿- 15 -
4.   Organization of seminars on economic and financial
topics.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1989.


-   1 6   - 
S C H E D U L E   3 
P 1   o c u r e m e n t 
A .       I n t e r n a t i o n a l   C o m p e t i t i v e   B i d d i n g 
1 .       E x c e p t   a s   p r o v i d e d   i n   P a r t   C   h e r e o f ,   g o o d s   s h a l l   b e   p r o c u r e d 
u n d e r   c o n t r a c t s   a w a r d e d   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   p r o c e d u r e s   c o n s i s t e n t 
w i t h   t h o s e   s e t   f o r t h   i n   t h e   c u r r e n t   e d i t i o n   o f   t h e   " G u i d e l i n e s 
f o r   P r o c u r e m e n t   u n d e r   W o r l d   B a n k   L o a n s   a n d   I D A   C r e d i t s "   p u b l i s h e d 
b y   t h e   B a n k   i n   M a r c h   1 9 7 7   ( h e r e i n a f t e r   c a l l e d . t h e   G u i d e l i n e s ) ,   o n 
t h e   b a s i s   o f   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   c o m p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g   a s   d e s c r i b e d   i n 
P a r t   A   o f   t h e   G u i d e l i n e s . 
2 .       F o r   g o o d s   t o   b e   p r o c u r e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   i n t e r n a t i o n a l 
c o m p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g ,   i n   a d d i t i o n   t o   t h e   r e q u i r e m e n t s   o f   p a r a g r a p h 
1 . 2   o f   t h e   G u i d e l i n e s ,   t h e   B o r r o w e r   s h a l l   p r e p a r e   a n d   f o r w a r d   t o 
t h e   A s s o c i a t i o n   a s   s o o n   a s   p o s s i b l e ,   a n d   i n   a n y   e v e n t   n o t   l a t e r 
t h a n   6 0   d a y s   p r i o r   t o   t h e   d a t e   o f   a v a i l a b i l i t y   t o   t h e   p u b l i c   o f 
t h e   f i r s t   t e n d e r   d o c u m e n t s   r e l a t i n g   t h e r e t o ,   a   g e n e r a l   p r o c u r e - 
m e n t   n o t i c e ,   i n   s u c h   f o r m   a n d   d e t a i l   a n d   c o n t a i n i n g   s u c h   i n f o r m a - 
t i o n   a s   t h e   A s s o c i a t i o n   s h a l l   r e a s o n a b l y   r e q u e s t ;   t h e   A s s o c i a t i o n 
w i l l   a r r a n g e   f o r   t h e   p u b l i c a t i o n   o f   s u c h   n o t i c e   i n   o r d e r   t o 
p r o v i d e   t i m e l y   n o t i f i c a t i o n   t o   p r o s p e c t i v e   b i d d e r s   o f   t h e   o p p o r - 
t u n i t y   t o   b i d   f o r   t h e   g o o d s   i n   q u e s t i o n .   T h e   B o r r o w e r   s h a l l 
p r o v i d e   t h e   n e c e s s a r y   i n f o r m a t i o n   t o   u p d a t e   s u c h   n o t i c e   a n n u a l l y 
s o   l o n g   a s   a n y   g o o d s   r e m a i n   t o   b e   p r o c u r e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f 
i n t e r n a t i o n a l   c o m p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g . 
3 .       F o r   t h e   p u r p o s e   o f   e v a l u a t i o n   a n d   c o m p a r i s o n   o f   b i d s   f o r   t h e 
s u p p l y   o f   g o o d s   t o   b e   p r o c u r e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   c o m - 
p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g :   ( i )   b i d d e r s   s h a l l   b e   r e q u i r e d   t o   s t a t e   i n   t h e i r 
b i d   t h e   c . i . f .   ( p o r t   o f   e n t r y )   p r i c e   f o r   t h e   i m p o r t e d   g o o d s ,   o r 
t h e   e x - f a c t o r y   p r i c e   o r   o f f - t h e - s h e l f   p r i c e   o f   o t h e r   g o o d s , 
o f f e r e d   i n   s u c h   b i d ;   ( i i )   c u s t o m s   d u t i e s   a n d   o t h e r   i m p o r t   t a x e s 
l e v i e d   i n   c o n n e c t i o n   w i t h   t h e   i m p o r t a t i o n ,   o r   t h e   s a l e s   a n d   s i m i - 
l a r   t a x e s   l e v i e d   i n   c o n n e c t i o n   w i t h   t h e   s a l e   o r   d e l i v e r y ,   p u r - 
s u a n t   t o   t h e   b i d ,   o f   t h e   g o o d s   s h a l l   n o t   b e   t a k e n   i n t o   a c c o u n t   i n 
t h e   e v a l u a t i o n   o f   t h e   b i d s ;   a n d   ( i i i )   t h e   c o s t   o f   i n l a n d   f r e i g h t 
a n d   o t h e r   e x p e n d i t u r e s   i n c i d e n t a l   t o   t h e   d e l i v e r y   o f   t h e   g o o d s   t o 
t h e   p l a c e   o f   t h e i r   u s e   o r   i n s t a l l a t i o n   s h a l l   b e   i n c l u d e d . 
B .       P r e f e r e n c e   f o r   D o m e s t i c   M a n u f a c t u r e r s 
I n   t h e   p r o c u r e m e n t   o f   g o o d s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   p r o c e d u r e 
d e s c r i b e d   i n   P a r t   A   o f   t h i s   S c h e d u l e ,   g o o d s   m a n u f a c t u r e d   i n   N i g e r 


﻿- 17 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods aod stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods  manufactured   in
Niger if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Niger equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 18 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000, may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, under procedures accept-
able to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿- 19 -
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (5) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments   made  out   of  the   Special  Account   for   eligible
expenditures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (5),
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 21 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, any further request for a deposit into the Special Account
may be denied by the Association: (a) when the Association shall
have determined at any time that all further withdrawals can be
made directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement, or (b) unless otherwise agreed by the Associa-
tion, when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to Categories (1) through (5) for the Project, minus the amount
of any outstanding qualified agreement to reimburse entered into
by the Association and of any outstanding special commitment made
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
tions with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the equiva-
lent of twice the amount of the initial deposit. Withdrawal from
the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (5) for the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, be made only after and to the extent the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
have been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or


﻿- 22 -
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    3       day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


