Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1373a-BD
BANGLADESH
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
June 2, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performancé of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is pegged to the Pound Sterling at
a rate of i 1.00 = Tk 26.70. The Pound floats relative to
the US Dollar and consequently, the Taka, US Dollar rate is
subject to change. The rate-below has been used throughout
this report, except where stated to the contrary.
US$1                 =        Tk 15.0
Tk 1                         US$0.067
Tk 1 million         =        US$67,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)          =        0.405 hectares (ha)
1 bigha              =        0.33 ac
1 mile (mi)          =        1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile
(sq mi)           =       640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)          =        30.5 centimeters (cm)
I maund (md)         =        82.3 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)  =         26.8 md
I cubic foot per    =         0.0283 cu meters per
second (cusec)               second



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS ANT ACRONYMS USED
BADC       -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BJSB       5    Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank
BKB        =    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Bank
(Bangladesh Krishi Bank)
BRRI       5    Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
CB         =    Commercial Bank
DTW        =    Deep Tubewell
GDP        =    Gross Domestic Product
GOB             Government of Bangladesh
EARP       =    Extension and Research Project
HYV        =    High Yield Variety
IRDP       =    Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS             Village Cooperative Society (Krishi Samabaya Samity)
LLP        -    Low-Lift Pump
Min LG&RD  =    Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives
NEC             National Economic Council
O&M        5    Operation and Maintenance
PCC        =    Project Coordination Committee
PP         =    Project Proforma
RD-I       =    Rural Development I Project
RWP             Rural Works Program
STW        -    Shallow Tubewell
TCCA       =    Thana Central Cooperative Association
TIP        =    Thana Irrigation Program
TTDC            Thana Training and Development Center
UNDP       =    United Nations Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onily in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be diackud without World Bak authorization.






BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY .....         ......................   i - xv
I.   AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..................................
General ...............       ........................
Land Use         ......................................
Production Trends .....       .......................     2
Constraints and Potential ...          ..................  3
II.   IRRIGATION ....... ....................                          4
General .......       ................................     4
Constraints to Development         ....................   5
Strategy, Programs and Performance ..........      ..     5
IDA Support to Irrigation         .....................    7
III.   PROJECT AREAS .......        .............................. .    8
General ....................................................  8
Climate ................. ......................           8
Topography and Soils .... ................ ........        9
Water Resources and Drainage ................      ..      9
Transportation ......     ..........................      10
Farm Sizes and Land Tenure ..................      ...   10
Land Use and Agricultural Production .........    11
Agricultural Supporting Services ...........      ...    13
IV.   THE PROJECT ....................         ....................    16
General ....................................................    16
Issues in Project Formulation ........ .........    16
Project Components --Summary ............                19
Project Components --Detailed Description   ....    20
A.  Shallow Tubewells            ........................    20
B.  Credit Facilities .........................    23
C.  Repair and Maintenance Facilities .........    29
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ....         .............    34
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission comprising
Messrs. P. Garg, S. Allison, A. Stocker (IDA), and R. Atkinson and H. Hanke
(Consultants) who visited Bangladesh in February/March 1976. A follow-up
Mission comprising Messrs. P. Garg (IDA) and M. Khyne (Consultant) visited
Bgngladesh in August/September 1976. Mr. A. Seager (IDA) assisted with
t e agricultural aspects of the project.



-2-
Page No.
Implementation Schedule  ......................    35
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures  ....   36
Financing ......................................... 00.    39
Procurement .......d t   l.........od...S.u..   40
Disbursements ............ .... . . ..a- .......    41
Proposed Credit Allocation and Schedule of
Disbursements ...... .............................  42
Accounts and Audit                    ..**....     43
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION .............o ...    43
Implementing Agencies ...oo  ...................   43
Agency Responsibilities ........# .......s.    46
Additional Staff .......  ..... ... ... ..         50
Project Coordination ...... .. ........ a  .......0   51
Operation and Maintenance    ......................    54
VI.  PRODUCTION AND MARKET PROSPECTS                          55
Projected Cropping Patterns ....................   55
Projected Command Areas for Tubewells . ........ oo   57
Cultivation Practices, Yields and Production  ...   59
Crop Input Requirements    ........................    61
Market Prospects ......... .......  -- .. ......   63
VII.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES ... oo ............-    63
Prices for Ecnomic and Financial Analyses          63
Farm Incomes ......................   66
Recovery of Costs ... see .... . . ..  . .    - ..70
Impact on the Government Budget .................   71
Benefits and Economic Justifiction .............    72
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..e............   74
Tables 1-15
Annex 1 - Related Documents Available in the Project File.
MAPS
12391 - Project Areas
12392 - Land Use



STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
BANGLADESH
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
I. The Agricultural Sector
1.        Bangladesh is predominantly agricultural.  The agriculture sector
accounts for as much as 60% of GDP, 75% of all employment and over 90% of
all exports. It has, however, been unable either to feed adequately the
country's rapidly increasing population or to provide gainful employment
for its largely unskilled and illiterate labor force. The major objectives
of Bangladesh's agricultural development efforts are to achieve food self-
sufficiency, create employment for the rural poor, and to increase export
earnings. The Government's strategy for development of the sector emphasizes
strengthening of rural institutions, improvement of farm input supplies, better
utilization of existing irrigation facilities and further expansion of irriga-
tion facilities through low cost, short gestation, minor irrigation schemes.
Land Use and Production
2.        Bangladesh has a gross area of 35 M ac of which about 22.5 M ac
are under cultivation. According to official statistics, for the five year
period, 1970/71 - 1974/75, the annual cropped area averaged 30.3 M ac giving
a cropping intensity of about 135%. Rice -- by far the most important crop --
accounted for 80% of the cropped area; jute for 6% and a variety of other
crops such as pulses, oilseeds, wheat, sugarcane and vegetables for the re-
maining 14%. During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual
rate of about 2.5% and foodgrain production, at a rate of 2.4%. However,
both lagged behind the population growth rate of 2.8% and as a result food-
grain imports increased from less than 0.6 M tons in 1960/61 to over 1.5 M
tons in 1969/70. A severe drought combined with the disruptions caused by
the 1971 civil strife resulted in a sharply reduced production in 1972/73 --
some 15% below the 1969/70 level -- necessitating food imports of 2.8 M tons.
Despite a substantial recovery, production in 1973/74 and 1974/75 remained
below the 1969/70 level. In 1975/76 due to favorable weather conditions,
improved availability of fertilizers and unusually high foodgrain prices in
1974/75, there was, however, a record foodgrain production of 13 M tons, which
exceeded the 1969/70 level by some 10%. Nonetheless, Bangladesh still had to
import about 1.5 M tons of foodgrains in 1975/76. Despite major emphasis by
the Government on achieving food self-sufficiency, substantial food imports
are likely to continue for the foreseeable future.



- ii -
Constraints and Potential
3.        Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by scarcity
of cultivable land, limited potential on part of the cultivated land, climatic
hazards, lack of irrigation facilities, and deficient transportation for moving
farm inputs and produce. However, the above constraints can be overemphasized.
On the positive side, Bangladesh has large areas of highly fertile deltaic
soils, a climate suitable for year-round cropping, and abundant groundwater
resources for dry season irrigation. Also, in recent years, the development
of high yielding varieties (HYVs) of rice and wheat, suitable for cultivation
in large areas of Bangladesh even under rainfed conditions, has opened up
the prospects of substantial increases in production that can be brought about
quickly and inexpensively. Much of the potential, however, has remained un-
developed so far.
4.        The reasons for underdevelopment are primarily sociological and
institutional. There are some seven million farm households in Bangladesh,
90% of which cultivate 5 ac or less. Even "large" farmers in Bangladesh are
small by international standards. Hence to have any significant impact on
production, developmental programs must necessarily involve the participation
of millions of small farmers. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are hard work-
ing and receptive to proven innovations. However, their efforts have not been
complemented by adequate and timely supplies of farm inputs, relevant technical
advice, and suitable marketing, processing and storage facilities. The failure
of the various existing agencies and departments to fulfill these key functions
is due to weaknesses in planning as well as in implementation. Agricultural
planning has generally been based on an extremely poor data base, inadequate
analysis, and very little feed-back from operating departments, resulting in
unrealistic targets, inflexible and uncoordinated programs, and unexpected
bottlenecks during implementation. On the implementation side, the weaknesses
include excessive centralization of decision-making, overly cumbersome admin-
istrative procedures, inadequately trained field staff, unattractive staff
salaries and benefits, and poorly defined work responsibilities.
5.        The inadequacy of agricultural credit compounds the problem of in-
creasing agricultural productivity. About 85% of agricultural credit is from
non-institutional sources. The principal institutional sources of credit (the
Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB) and the Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank (BJSB))
have weak financial structures, little capital, few deposits, and are heavily
dependent on advances at concessional rates from Government and the Bangladesh
Bank. Also their equity has been greatly impared by borrowers' defaults.
6.        Lately, the Government has shown increasing awareness of the prob-
lems facing the agricultural sector and has taken a number of steps to over-
come them. These steps include efforts to improve project preparation and
implementation through increased decentralization in project approval and in
procurement and contracting, and simplification of procedures for release of
budgetary funds. To overcome the lack of trained field staff, Bangladesh is
implementing several training projects -- the important ones being the IDA-
supported Agricultural and Rural Training Project (Credit 621-BD, 1976), and
the UNDP/FAO-assisted training programs for extension staff and for workshop
maintenance personnel. As a follow-up to a comprehensive crop sector review



- iii -
by the Bank Group, the Government has initiated a program for improving the
effectiveness of the agricultural extension services. The Government has
also decided to improve the distribution of agricultural inputs through
placing greater reliance on the private sector. Also underway, with Bank Group
assistance, is a study to identify particular areas where technical assistance
to improve the performance of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Bangladesh
Agriculture Development Corporation (BADC), the two agencies most deeply
involved in the agricultural sector, might be appropriate. A review of the
agricultural credit system is about to get underway with assistance from IDA
and ADB. Significant improvement in agricultural credit is, however, a long-
term task. GOB is following an interim strategy of getting greater commercial
bank involvement in agricultural credit.
7.        To promote rural development, the Government is trying to expand the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP). The objective of the program is
to use local cooperatives (KSSs), in turn grouped at the Thana level (TCCAs),
as a mechanism for coordinating and integrating services to farmers, including
farmer training, credit, input marketing, and rural works activities. The
Government is preparing a comprehensive plan for its rural development activ-
ities and has requested IDA to help organize a group of donors interested in
supporting rural development in Bangladesh so as to achieve a better coor-
dinated program of investment in this field.
II. Irrigation
8.        For centuries, Bangladesh  farmers have used bucket-lift methods
for irrigating a dry-season rice crop (boro) on lands near low-lying water
bodies and perennial rivers and streams. Until the late 1950s however, almost
no effort was made for further development of the water resources and the
irrigated area remained stagnant at around 1 million ac. The establishment
of the Water Development Board (WDB) in 1959 and BADC in 1961 gave a major
impetus to the development of water resources in Bangladesh. Currently,
irrigation is available for about 2.7 M ac -- 0.2 M ac by gravity supply;
0.2 M ac by groundwater from tubewells; 1.3 M ac by low-lift pumps, and
about 1.0 M ac by traditional methods.
Constraints to Development
9.        The development of water resources in Bangladesh presents many
difficulties. The need to maintain minimum flows in the rivers during the
dry season (in order to prevent saline intrusion from the Bay of Bengal and
adverse effects on navigation and fisheries) limits the potential for surface
water irrigation. The flat terrain precludes the development of large re-
servoirs for either flood control or water storage for irrigation in the dry
season. Poor transportation facilities cause problems in moving equipment
and materials to construction sites. Finally, the small holding size and high
degree of fragmentation -- typical holding is about two acres fragemented into
five plots -- necessitates the organization of, and cooperation among, a large
number of farmers for full utilization of even minor irrigation facilities.



- iv -
Strategy, Programs and Performance
10.       In the early 1960s, much of the development effort was focused on
large scale gravity irrigation and flood control projects such as the Ganges-
Kobadak, Chandpur and Coastal Embankment Projects. Although these projects
now provide irrigation to about 0.2 M ac and flood protection to about 1.5 M
ac, their overall impact has been disappointing. Most of these projects have
suffered from large cost overruns and long implementation delays and benefits
to-date have generally been much smaller than projected. Part of the reason
for the disappointing results has been the all-pervasive weakness in imple-
mentation capacity. However, in retrospect, it would appear that inadequate
technical and economic evaluation was also partly responsible for the poor
results.
11.       Considerably more successful have been the relatively low-cost and
quick-yielding minor irrigation schemes such as low-lift pumps and tubewells.
These pumps and tubewells have been deployed and maintained by BADC. Low-
lift pumps (LLP) are small capacity (1-2 cusecs), diesel-powered centrifugal
pumps used to raise irrigation water from perennial streams and ponds. Start-
ing from scratch in the late 1950s, the program has now expanded to some
40,000 pumps, irrigating an estimated 1.3 M ac. Despite problems of under-
utilization and inadequate maintenance, the LLP program is highly attractive
-economically. The major constraint to further expansion of the program is
the availability of surface water during the dry season. It is estimated that
installation of some 10,000 additional pumps would exhaust the current poten-
tial. Further expansion of the program would have to be in conjunction with
improvement of natural channels, building of control structures and regulators
and, in some cases, double pumping (e.g. IDA-supported Barisal, Karnafuli and
Muhuri Projects). This would be more expensive but still quite attractice in
many cases.
12.       Tubewells to exploit groundwater offer the best prospects for fur-
ther expansion of the irrigated area. Conservative estimates based on preli-
minary investigations indicate that some 4 M ac could be irrigated by tube-
wells. Tubewell irrigation, although somewhat costlier than that by LLPs,
has the advantage that it allows extension of irrigation to many areas where
surface water resources have already been exhausted (e.g., Northwest region).
Two kinds of tubewells are used in Bangladesh -- deep tubewells (DTWs --
typically 6-8 inch diameter wells equipped with 20 hp diesel engines coupled
to submersible pumps and yielding about two to three cusecs) and shallow tube-
wells (STWs -- 3-4 inch diameter wells equipped with 5 to 6 hp diesel engines
and a surface-mounted centrifugal pump, typically yielding less than one
cusec). Until recently, much of the emphasis in groundwater development
was placed on DTWs. Some 4,000 DTWs, irrigating an estimated 150,000 ac,
are currently in use. Programs for installation of an additional 5,000 DTWs
(including about 3,000 under the IDA-financed NW Tubewells Project - Credit
341-BD) are also underway. It is expected that by 1978/79, all 9,000 DTWs
would be in operation and the irrigated area should total at least 0.3 M ac.
Problems have occurred in organizing farmers groups large enough to use the
DTW to full capacity.



- v -
13.       Compared to DTWs, STWs are simpler to install and maintain, require
much smaller groups of farmers for optimal utilization and are considerably
less expensive. Accordingly, GOB has rightly shifted its priority to STWs.
Although so far only about 7,000 STWs have been installed, proposals have been
approved or are under consideration for installing an additional 35,000 STWs
over the next 4-5 years -- 2,500 under the IDA-financed Rural Development
Project (Credit 631-BD, 1976), 5,500 under an ADB financed Agricultural Credit
Project, 17,000 under bilateral assistance from Japan, Germany and India, and
10,000 under this proposed project. By the early 1980s, these 35,000 STWs are
expected to irrigate about 0.4 M ac.
14.       While the economic return on investments in minor irrigation has
been quite satisfactory, serious problems in utilization and maintenance of
irrigation facilities reduce benefits from the levels that could be obtained.
Pump/well utilization is only 15 to 20 ac per cusec compared to the potential
of 25 to 30 ac per cusec. The underutilization is partly due to the poor
siting of pumps and tubewells under political pressures and partly a reflec-
tion of difficulties in organizing and managing groups withi a large number
of farmers. The maintenance problems are due to inadequate workshop facil-
ities, poorly trained field staff, and lack of incentives for farmers and BADC
mechanics to keep the equipment in good working condition. Heavy subsidies on
irrigation by GOB also contribute to inefficient utilization and poor main-
tenance.
15.       Under the Rural Development Project, a major effort is being made
to improve the pump/well allocation mechanisms and to facilitate the organi-
zation and management of pump groups. If successful, the Rlural Development
Project procedures would be implemented on a nationwide basis. For improving
the maintenance or irrigation facilities, the UNDP/ILO has recently approved
a project for training field staff at various levels. Support for improvement
of repair and maintenance facilities is included in the proposed project.
IDA Support to Irrigation
16.       Prior to the independence of Bangladesh, two IDA financed water con-
trol projects were completed, and some pumps and engines were financed under
IDA agricultural credit projects. Currently, IDA is financing the Chandpur II
Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD, 1972), the Northwest Tubewells Project
(Credit 341-BD, 1972), the Barisal Irrigation Project (Credit 542-BD, 1975),
and the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Credit 605-BD, 1976). An additional
irrigation and flood protection project (M4uhuri Project) is scheduled to be
presented to the Board during FY77. The implementation of all four irriga-
tion projects currently in execution is behind schedule by one to two years.
Reasons for the slippage of the implementation schedules are primarily admin-
istrative and include difficulties in: hiring of consultants; appointment of
project staff; release of budgetary allocations; approval of contracts, and
coordination among the various implementing agencies.  The Association and
the Government have been discussing specific measures to improve project exe-
cution over a long period. The Government has already taken a number of steps
to relax the most serious bottlenecks. IDA and the Government have also given
increased emphasis to regular monitoring and supervision of the various pro-
jects in order to identify and resolve the potential problems at an early
stage.



- vi -
PART III - The Project
17.       The proposed project would provide irrigation to about 150,000 ac
in the Northwest (NW) region through the installation of 10,000 small capacity
STWs. The project would also improve the workshop facilities for maintenance
of all irrigation equipment (some 5,000 LLPs, 20,000 STWs and 4,000 DTWs) in
the NW region. The NW region, covering five of the country's 19 Districts,
has a gross area of about 13,350 sq mi and an estimated population of about
18 M. There are some 2 M farm families in the region each cultivating an
average of 3.5 ac. The major objectives of the project are to: (a) increase
foodgrain production; (b) improve farm income levels; (c) rationalize and
strengthen the rural institutions; and (d) improve utilization of existing
investments in irrigation facilities. The project is in line with the stra-
tegy set forth in the Land and Water Resources Sector Study by the Bank Group
(Report No. PS-13, dated December 1972).
18.       Project formulation and appraisal involved the resolution of the
following major issues: (a) the areas to be covered under the project; (b)
the institutional set-up for sale of STWs and provision of credit facilities
to farmers; (c) the feasibility and consistency of the Government's overall
program for shallow tubewell development; and (d) the scope of the project.
The following decisions were made during the appraisal:
(a) Project Areas. To benefit the relatively poorer areas and
to increase food production in food-deficit areas in the NW
region, it was decided that the project should cover all
areas with technically acceptable groundwater potential rather
than be limited only to areas with optimal potential.
(b) Institutional Set-up. To strike a balance between the
objectives of 'growth', 'equity' and 'institution building,'
it was decided that distribution of the project financed
tubewells would be through the following three channels:
(i) cash sales to individual buyers; (ii) sales to IRDP
cooperative groups with credit from commercial banks; and
(iii) sales to individuals or groups of individuals in
non-IRDP thanas on direct credit from commercial banks with
larger downpayments and stricter security requirements
than for IRDP groups. All three channels would operate
in parallel. It is estimated that about 10% of the
sale would be on a cash basis, 60% to IRDP groups and
30% to individuals on credit. To ensure participation
by the small farmers, 5,000 STWs would be reserved for
IRDP groups. It has been agreed that the institutional
set-up and the terms and conditions for the sale of the
project STWs would be satisfactory to IDA and that by
December 31, 1977, BADC would phase out its hire-purchase
system for sale of STWs on a country-wide basis (Sectior
3.07(d) of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).



- vii -
(c) Program Feasibility and Consistency. In addition to the
10,000 STWs under the proposed project, the Government has
arranged external financing for about 25,000 Snls for instal-
lation during the next few years. In view of this, the fea-
sibility and consistency of its overall program for STWs was
thoroughly reviewed. The review indicated that although there
was some need for further preparatory work, the program was
feasible and would be consistent with the approach adopted in
the proposed project. It was agreed that uniform pricing prin-
ciples and credit terms would be employed during the project
implementation period for all STWs installed in the project
area irrespective of source of financing and method of pro-
curement (Section 4.02 of DCA). Specific measures were also
agreed to strengthen the program in other parts of the country.
In particular, the Government has agreed to establish an ex-
pert committee to review the issue of groundwater development
in Bangladesh and submit to IDA for review, not later than
December 31, 1979, its proposals for the regulation of ground-
water development (Section 3.09 of DCA).
(d) Scope of the Project. In view of problems of inter-agency
coordination in Bangladesh, the high priority nature of in-
vestment in STWs, and the proposed Extension and Research
Project for the NW region, it was decided to include in the
project only those services which are essential to the
successful operation of the project STWs, i.e strengthening
of repair and maintenance facilities for the irrigation
equipment in the NW region.
Project Components
19.       The project would include the provision of:
(a) Equipment, materials and incidentals for the installation
of 10,000 power-pumped STWs. To demarcate areas suitable
for STW development, BADC would hire engineering consultants
to compile and analyze existing hydrological data and to pre-
pare Thana Irrigation Maps. The availability of these maps,
to be prepared in accordance with standards satisfactory to
IDA, would be a precondition for installing STWs in a particular
thana (Section 3.06 of DCA). Assurances have been obtained
that in project thanas where the existing hydrological data
is found to be inadequate, BADC would commission the drilling
of test holes and carry out other appropriate tests, under
arrangements satisfactory to IDA, to determine before
June 30, 1978, the suitability of such thanas for the
development of STWs (Section 3.08 of DCA).
(b) Credit facilities through two commercial banks (CBs), the
Sonali and Janata Banks, to eligible IRDP groups and indivi-
duals for financing the purchase of about 9,000 tubewells --
an estimated 6,000 by IRDP groups and the rest by individual



- viii -
buyers. Vehicles and office equipment would be provided
to the staff of IRDP, the Sonali Bank and the Janata Bank
to help them in administering and supervising the credit
program. To improve operations of IRDP's village level
societies (KSSs), IRDP would prepare debt inventories and
land registers for IRDP-KSSs in the NW region. Project
Agreements with Sonali Bank and Janata Bank, respectively,
have been agreed upon concerning their involvement in the
execution of the project and the details of the implementa-
tion of the credit program. The Government has agreed to
ensure that IRDP, BKB, BJSB, the Central Cooperative Banks
and the four other commercial banks provide all necessary
information to the Sonali and Janata banks, with respect to
all outstanding loans due to them by prospective borrowers,
not later than two months after Sonali or Janata shall have
requested such information. In this context, GOB would issue
specific orders to BKB, BJSB and IRDP by September 30, 1977.
The Government has also agreed to complete, by March 31, 1978,
an inventory of outstanding or overdue institutional debt owed
by KSS members in the project area (Section 3.07 of DCA).
Farmers would have to settle their debts according to guide-
lines agreed upon with IDA in order to qualify for loans under
the project (Schedule 1 of Project Agreements).
(c) Strengthening of repair and maintenance facilities for the
existing and proposed irrigation equipment in the NW region
(a total of about 5,000 LLPs, 4,000 DTWs and 20,000 STWs).
The project would include: (i) civil works for completion/
construction of one regional workshop, five zonal workshops
and about 100 thana workshops; (ii) incremental requirements
of machinery and equipment for the regional, zonal and thana
workshops as well as machinery and equipment for sale to
private sector workshops; (iii) transport and vehicles for
BADC field staff in the NW region; and (iv) two man-years
of technical assistance for helping BADC in the implementa-
tion of the proposed program for strengthening the repair
and maintenance facilities (Section 3.10 (b) of DCA). The
Government has agreed that BADC would, by June 30, 1978, con-
solidate the field organization of its Irrigation Directorate
in the NW region and assign to its regional, zonal and thana
workshops in the NW region functions and responsibilities satis-
factory to IDA (Section 3.10 (a) of DCA). In order to promote
the private sector involvement in the provision of repair and
maintenance services, the Government has provided assurances
that it would cause BADC to sell to qualified mechanics in the
NW region spare parts for irrigation equipment, and the workshop
equipment and machinery referred to in (C) (ii), under arrange-
ments satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.11 (a) of DCA). The Gov-
ernment has also agreed that BADC would charge the users of its
repair and maintenance services full cost of the spare parts
and at least 50% of the cost of services (Section 4.05 of DCA).



- ix -
Since the BADC thana workshops are the property of the Ministry
of Land, Administration, Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives, the Government has undertaken to ensure that
the workshops are made available to BADC under arrangements
satisfactory to IDA (Section 4.03 of DCA).
(d) Services of qualified consultants for conducting (i) appro-
priate field surveys to evalute the production and distribu-
tive impact of the project-financed STWs; and (ii) detailed
studies to evaluate the effectiveness of the improved repair
and maintenance facilities. It has been agreed that these
consultants would be hired not later than March 31, 1978
(Section 3.02 of DCA).
Cost Estimates
20.       Total project costs are estimated at US$25.4 M equivalent and
include about US$4.6 M in import duties and taxes. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$14.6 M or about 57% of the total project cost.
Cost estimates are based on unit prices at March 1977 levels. The major
elements in the cost estimates are equipment, materials and incidentals for
STWs (US$12.33 M), standby pump sets and spare parts for STWs (US$2.05 M),
vehicles and office equipment for IRDP and CBs (US$0.36 M), civil works for
completion/construction of workshop facilities (US$1.19 M), machinery and
hand tools for workshops (US$2.47 M), vehicles for BADC (US$1.67 M), tech-
nical assistance (US$0.73 M), totalling to a base project cost of US$20.80 M.
Physical contingencies of about US$0.85 and price contingencies of US$3.75 M
bring the total project cost to US$25.4 M.
Financing
21.       The proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 M would finance the full foreign
exchange costs and some local costs or about 77% of the total project cost
net of taxes and duties. Financing for the remaining US$9.4 M would come
from the following: Farmers buying the STWs would put up, either as install-
ment payments on credit sales or as full payment on cash sales, about US$4.8 M.
Participating commercial banks would put up from their own resources US$2.5 M
as credit to individuals and group buyers (net of repayments during implemen-
tation period). The IRDP-TCCAs and the CBs would pay US$0.2 M for purchase
of office equipment and vehicles for their staff. Farmers and private sector
mechanics would pay a total of US$0.9 M for the purchase of spare parts, ma-
chinery and equipment and for rental of replacement pumps during the project
period (and an estimated US$2.6 M following project completion during the life
of the project tubewells). GOB would contribute US$1.0 M and would also be
responsible for making up any shortfalls. As there would be some time lag
between project expenditures and realization of the sales proceeds of the
tubewells, the Government would establish a revolving fund for the project and
keep a balance adequate to cover expected expenditures for the following three
months. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be that the
Government has established the revolving fund and made an initial contribution
of Tk 4.5 M (Sections 3.13 (a)-(d) of DCA).



x
Implementation Schedule
22.       Project implementation would take four years.  Preparatory activi-
ties such as preparation of Thana Irrigation Maps, and KSS land registers and
debt inventories for KSS members would be completed by March 31, 1978. Pro-
curement of vehicles, and office equipment for IRDP and CBs would be completed
during the first year of the project. Detailed designs and layouts for the
various workshops have already been completed and construction would be phased
over three years: 1977/78 - 1979/80. Procurement of tools and machinery for
the workshops and vehicles for BADC would be phased with the workshop construc-
tion program.
23.       Tubewell  installation would be spread over four seasons: 1977/78 -
1980/81. Tender documents for procurement of materials and equipment for
shallow tubewells are under preparation and tenders would be issued for deliv-
eries in four batches - first batch of 1,000 STWs by December 1977, and 3,000
each by September of the following three years (1978-80). The procurement
schedule is tentative and would be revised, if necessary, following periodic
reviews of the demand for STWs in the project areas.
Procurement and Disbursements
24.       Equipment, vehicles and materials (other than those for construction
of workshops) with an estimated cif cost of about US$11.3 M (net of con-
tingencies) would be procured after international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines. Off the-shelf items costing less
than US$10,000 each would be purchased through normal Government procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Such purchases would, however, be
limited to US$200,000 in total. Because installation of the tubewells (US$1.3
M net of contingencies) and the civil works for completion/construction of
workshops (US$1.2 M net of contingencies) would be simple, individually very
small, labor-intensive, scattered over a wide area and restricted to seasonal
construction, they would be unsuitable for international competitive bidding
and hence would be carried out on the basis of local competitive bidding under
Government procedures satisfactory to IDA. The locations, site plans and
designs of the regional and zonal workshops would be acceptable to IDA (Section
3.03 of DCA). GOB's current proposals for locations, site plans and designs
were reviewed during the appraisal mission and would be acceptable.
25.       The consultants to carry out the evaluation studies (Section 3.02
and Part D of Schedule 2 of DCA), the Thana Irrigation Maps (Section 3.06 of
DCA) and the workshop improvement program (Section 3.10 (b) and Part D of
Schedule 2 of DCA), would have qualifications and experience, as well as
terms and conditions of employment, satisfactory to IDA.
26.       Disbursements from the credit acccount would be made for:  (a)
equipment, machinery, spare parts, vehicles and materials (other than mate-
rials for construction workshops): 100% of foreign expenditures if directly
imported, or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) if manufactured locally,



- xi -
or 60% of local expenditures; (b) materials and civil works for construction
workshops: 70% of total costs; and (c) consultants services and technical
assistance: 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures. Ap-
plications for withdrawals from the credit would be fully documented except
that disbursements for individual local expenditures costing less than US$1,000
under category (c) would be made against certificates of expenditure. It is
expected that the disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1981, ap-
proximately six months after the completion of the project. The Government
has agreed that all participating agencies would maintain separate project
accounts at thana, District and project levels, to be audited by auditors
acceptable to IDA each fiscal year. Auditing of credit accounts for STWs
would continue until all loans provided to farmers during project implementa-
tion are repaid (Section 4.01 (b) of DCA).
Project Implementation and Operation
27.       Project implementation would principally involve three agencies:
-- BADC for procurement, installation and after sales service
of the project-financed STWs. It would also be responsible
for strengthening the repair and maintenance services for all
irrigation equipment in the NW region;
__ IRDP for organizing farmers' cooperatives for credit sales
of STWs to groups, and administering and supervising the
credit facilities to the TCCA-KSSs; and
-- CBs (the Sonali and Janata Banks) for providing credit
facilities to individual as well as group buyers. They
would have the sole responsibility for administering and
supervising the lending to individuals and would help
IRDP in this regard for the groups.
In addition, the Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, Rural De-
velopment and Cooperatives would participate in project implementation by
supervising construction/ completion of thana workshops, helping in verifica-
tion of credit records for the borrowers under the project and providing
project coordination through the local government administration in the field.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that it would assign an
adequate number of additional staff to the various implementing agencies
(Section 3.12 of DCA).
28.       BADC, a semi-autonomous organization under the Ministry of Agri-
culture, is the single most important organization in Bangladesh for supply-
ing inputs and services to the agricultural sector. It is responsible for
procurement of virtually all agricultural inputs, machinery and equipment
and for distribution of seeds (except for jute), fertilizers, diesel and some
pesticides. It also manages seed multiplication farms, deploys and maintains
low-lift pumps, tractors and power tillers, and sinks and maintains STWs and
DTWs. The corporation, with some 16,000 employees and a total annual budget
in excess of US$100 M, is one of the largest organizations in Bangladesh. Due
to this, rapid growth and the disruptions caused by the civil disturbances



- xii -
during the early 1970s, there has been some deterioration in the management
of the various BADC programs. The deterioration has, in turn, affected imple-
mentation of two IDA financed projects-- the NW Tubewells Project (Credit 341-
BD) and the Cereal Seeds Project (Credit 410-BD)--for which BADC is the main
implementing agency. Both projects have experienced substantial implementa-
tion delays as well as cost overruns. Following intensive supervision and
monitoring by IDA and the Government during the past year, both projects are
proceeding satisfactorily now. To prevent similar problems to the proposed
project, during appraisal of the project, BADC's existing STWs program was
thoroughly reviewed and institutional changes incorporated, as necessary.
IDA is currently financing consultants under a technical assistance credit
(Credit 409-BD) to assist BADC in preparing terms of reference for further
studies necessary for improving BADC's management and operations (paragraph
29).
29.       IRDP is an agency under the direct administrative control and super-
vision of the Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, Rural Devel-
opment and Cooperatives, for developing stable, self-reliant and disciplined
cooperatives in rural areas. The IRDP approach is fashioned after the two-
tiered cooperative system developed at the Comilla Academy during the 1960s.
At the village level, farmers (typically 30 to 100) are encouraged to join
together to form Village Agricultural Cooperative Societies (KSS). In turn,
the KSSs within a thana (100 to 150) are federated into a Thana Central Coop-
erative Association (TCCA). The TCCAs organize supply of technical services
(land use planning, training and extension), farm inputs and machinery, and
production-linked supervised credit for the member KSSs. The two-tiered
approach enables retaining the village as the natural unit of development
while still exploiting economies of scale inherent in organizing and super-
vising the supply of inputs and services at the thana level. The IRDP,
started in 1970, presently covers about 160 thanas and plans are to extend
its operations to another 50 thanas during 1977. Compared to most other
agencies and departments involved in rural development in Bangladesh, IRDP
is a relatively strong organization with better than average field staff, a
well conceived work program, and good leadership. IRDP is the main imple-
menting agency for the IDA-financed Rural Development Project. A substantial
amount of technical assistance for improving IRDP's field operations is being
provided under that project.
30.       CBs.  The Sonali and Janata banks are the two largest commercial
banks in Bangladesh having, respectively, 435 and 348 branches, well dis-
persed over the whole country. Both banks are financially sound and ade-
quately staffed with personnel trained and experienced in the commercial
banking business. The Sonali Bank has been a pioneer in providing produc-
tion credit to the agricultural sector through the IRDP cooperatives. It
has achieved a excellent record in loan recovery with less than 2% of amounts
advanced in default for more than one year. Involvement of the Janata Bank
in agricultural credit has been more modest. It has lent directly to farmers
for production of cash crops such as potatoes, tobacco and sunflower seeds.
On an experimental basis, it has also lent for installation of a few shallow
tubewells in Noakhali and Comilla Districts. The Janata Bank's recovery
performance also has been very good.



- xiii -
Project Coordination
31.       Successful project implementation would require close cooperation
and coordination between the staffs of BADC, IRDP and the commercial banks,
at all levels. The organizational structure to achieve this has been modeled
after that of the IDA-supported Rural Development Project, which, according to
experience so far, has been successful. The Government has provided assurances
that the composition and functions of the committees described below would be
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.01 (b) of DCA).
32.       Project Executive Committees.  Three levels of  project Executive
Committees have been established -- at thana, District and the project levels,
respectively. These committees would be in charge of day-to-day project
follow-up and execution. The Thana Circle Officers (Development)would serve
as the Thana committee chairmen, and the District Deputy Commissioners, chair-
men of the District committees. The (Member) Director Irrigation (BADC) would
be the chairman of the Project Executive Committee. The BADC officers would
serve as executive secretaries of the committees at all three levels. All
participating agencies would be represented on the three levels of committees,
thus maintaining their respective chains of command. In particular, the
Project Executive Committee would be responsible for overall project execution,
and for reporting progress to IDA. The Committee would review the annual work
programs of the various participating agencies. It would also manage the
revolving fund to be established for the project.
33.       Project Coordination Committee.  A more senior committee, the
Project Coordination Committee, has been established under the chairmanship
of the Secretary of Agriculture. Its members are: Chief of Rural Institu-
tions Division, Planning Commission; Chairman BADC; Director, Agriculture
Credit Department of the Bangladesh Bank, Director-General, IRDP and Managing
Directors of the Janata and Sonali Banks. The Committee will settle policy
issues and will correspond with IDA on policy matters related to the project.
The committee will also see to it that Government project funds are allocated
to the implementing agencies according to the project budget and that major
coordination problems are resolved.
Operation and Maintenance
34.       Responsibility for operation and routine maintenance of the tube-
wells would lie with the buyers who would be instructed in these matters by
the BADC staff at the time of tubewell installation. Other maintenance and
major repairs would be the responsibility of BADC which would operate a network
of regional, zonal and thana workshops for this purpose. Bicycles and motor-
cycles supplied under the project for the field staff of BADC and IRDP-TCCAs
would be sold to the staff on a 'hire-purchase' basis. Responsibility for
the operation and maintenance (O&M) of these vehicles would lie with the
respective staff who would be given a monthly allowance for this purpose.
Responsibility for O&M of other vehicles and equipment would lie with the
respective agencies. Assurances have been obtained that the Government would



- xiv -
make adequate budgetary allocations to (i) BADC and IRDP for proper operation
and maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment to be used in implemen-
tation and operation of the project, and (ii) BADC for the import of spare
parts required to carry out the repair and maintenance improvement program
included in the proposed project (Section 4.04 of DCA).
Financial Analysis
35.       The impact of the project on its beneficiaries under the three
proposed sales arrangements, has been analyzed for three representative crop-
ping patterns found in the project areas. It is estimated that, typically,
the per ac gross value of production would increase by 100 to 200%, farm labor
requirement by 50% to 100% and the net value of production by 100-200%. As
most of the human and animal labor used for cultivation are "farmer owned",
the net value of production is a relatively poor indicator of the incentive
to the cultivators. A more meaningful measure is the total "farm income" from
land and the farmer's own and his animal's labor. Assuming that 80% of the
human labor requirements and 50% of the animal labor requirements are supplied
by the farmer himself, the estimated increase in per acre "farm incomes" would
range from 50% to 150%. The larger increases would take place in areas where
because of climatic and topographic constraints mostly single cropping is
practiced at present. As an alternative measure of the financial viability
of the project, financial rates of return have been calculated for various
kinds of buyers. For group buyers, the estimated annual rates of return vary
between 65-115%, for individuals buying on credit between 40-70%, and for
those buying on cash between 25-40%. The most serious risk to financial
viability would arise from: lower than projected command areas for the
tubewells and lower foodgrain prices. In the unlikely event that both were
to happen simultaneously, the rates of return would be still in the range of
15 to 50%. Thus, the investments in project tubewells would be financially
viable under most circumstances.
36.       Except for a part of the indirect O&M costs, all capital and O&M
costs for the tubewells would be borne by the users. In financial terms,
the cost recovery on the project would range from 80% to 90%. The high cost
recovery on the project is particularly striking since most other irrigation
facilities in Bangladesh are heavily subsidized. While it is clear from the
financial analysis that the high recovery rates under the project are fully
compatible with leaving enough incentive to the farmers, it is imperative for
reasons of equity and better resource allocation, that GOB should rationalize
its policies on "pricing" of irrigation water from different modes of irriga-
tion. An IDA Mission visited Bangladesh in August 1976 to discuss the issue
with GOB. GOB has indicated its intention to reduce subsidies on other
irrigation facilities and study the implications of various alternative
policies. Assurances have been obtained that before December 31, 1978, BADC
would furnish to IDA for comments a plan to recover from beneficiaries the
O&M cost anrd as much as possible of the capital costs of all irrigation
facilities provided through BADC; and that the Government would consult with
IDA on the timetable and measures to be implemented (Sectiorn 4.06 of DCA).



- xv -
Benefits and Economic Justification
37.       Bangladesh presently imports about 15% of its foodgrain demand and
achieving self-sufficiency in foodgrains is one of the country's most import-
ant priorities. The proposed project would assist in reducing Bangladesh's
foodgrain shortages which have been averaging about 1.5 M tons per year.
At full implementation, in four years, the project tubewells would provide
irrigation to about 150,000 ac of cultivated land which presently is mostly
single cropped under rainfed conditions, and with total rice production in the
command areas increasing by about 40,000 tons and wheat production by about
51,000 tons. The more intensive land use under the project would create
additional annual farm labor requirements of about 7.5 M man-day, an increase
of about 60% over the present level, and including secondary employment, the
total employment would increase by about 10 to 11 M man-days. While much of
this increase would come from the farmers themselves (who are generally under-
employed at present), the landless laborer would also benefit significantly.
Two important aspects of the project are that about one-third of the total
initial investment would come from private savings (as downpayment by users
or from commercial banks) and that project tubewells would involve practically
no subsidies. These features are particularly desirable, in view of the
Governments difficult budgetary situation and the need for mobilization of
private savings for productive investment.
38.       In a project such as this where the major result is to increase
the productivity of land, to a large extent the distribution of direct
benefits must reflect the existing land ownership pattern. In setting-up
the institutional arrangements for the project, however, particular attention
was paid to ensuring that small farmers get at least a fair chance to benefit
from the project. It is estimated that overall about 40% of the lands likely
to be benefitted under the project would belong to farmers who are presently
below subsistence levels and that two-thirds of the farm families directly
benefitting from the project have incomes below subsistence levels.
39.       The estimated economic rate of return for the project is about 50%.
Separate analyses of the tubewells with different cropping patterns and own-
ership arrangements, indicate that all cases are economically viable; the
lowest return being about 35%. Sensitivity tests taken under a variety of
less favorable assumptions resulted in rates of return over 30%. In. the un-
likely event that projected crop prices are 25% lower and command areas 25%
smaller, the rate of return would be about 25%. Thus, the project would be
economically viable under practically all circumstances. The high economic
returns which are essentially a result of two factors -- the low unit invest-
ment and the short gestation period - coupled with the large unexploited
groundwater resource of Bangladesh, place shallow tubewells among the priority
investments for development of the agriculture.
40.       The proposed project is feasible technically and highly attractive
financially and economically. It is suitable for an IDA credit of US$16 M on
standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.






BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
1.01      Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh, accounting for
60% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), 75% of all employment and
directly or indirectly, over 90% of the export earnings. The importance of
the agricultural sector in shaping the course of Bangladesh's economy extends,
however, even futher because of the strong linkages which exist between agri-
culture and the rest of the economy. Much of the industrial activity, for
example, centers around either processing the agricultural produce or
supplying inputs for use in agriculture. Good performance in agriculture
is generally accompanied by a high growth rate, stable prices and a narrow-
ing down of the balance of payments gap. Conversely, poor performance on
the agricultural front is accompanied by stagnation, widespread scarcities,
high inflation and accentuated balance of payment problems.
1.02      The major objectives of the Bangladesh Government's agricultural
development efforts are to achieve food self-sufficiency, create employment
for the rural poor, and to increase export earnings. The Government's
strategy for development of the sector emphasizes strengthening of rural
institutions, improvement of farm input supplies, better utilization of
existing irrigation facilities and further expansion of irrigation facilities
through low cost, short gestation, minor irrigation schemes.
Land Use
1.03      Bangladesh has a gross area of 35 M ac of which about 22.5 M ac
are under cultivation. According to official statistics, for the five year
period, 1970/71 - 1974/75, the annual cropped area averaged 30.3 M ac giving
a cropping intensity of about 135%. Rice -- by far the most important crop
-- accounted for 80% of the cropped area; jute for 6%; and a variety of other
crops such as pulses, oilseeds, wheat, sugarcane and vegetables for the re-
maining 14%. Variations in topography, soils, flooding levels and the avail-



- 2 -
ability of irrigation have resulted in the evolution of complex land use
patterns and cropping calendars. 1/ Table I summarizes present land use
in relation to the physical environment.
Production Trends
1.04      During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual rate
of about 2.5% and foodgrain production, at a rate of 2.4%. However, both
lagged behind the population growth rate of 2.8% and as a result foodgrain
imports increased from less than 0.6 M tons in 1960/61 to over 1.5 M tons
in 1969/70. A severe drought combined with the disruptions caused by the
1971 civil strife resulted in a sharply reduced production in 1972/73
-- some 15% below the 1969/70 level -- necessitating food imports of 2.8 M
tons. Despite a substantial recovery, production in 1973/74 and 1974/75
remained below the 1969/70 level. In 1975/76 due to favorable weather con-
ditions, improved availability of fertilizers and unusually high foodgrain
prices in 1974/75, there was, however, a record foodgrain production of 13 M
tons, which exceeded the 1969/70 level by some 10%. Nonetheless, Bangladesh
still had to import about 1.5 M tons of foodgrains in 1975/76. Almost all
of the food imports have been on concessionary terms and hence not a direct
burden on the country's foreign exchange resources. However, to the extent
that aid from external resources is fungible, food imports have been at the
cost of other essential imports. Unfortunately, despite major emphasis by
the Government on achieving food self-sufficiency, substantial food imports
are likely to continue for the foreseeable future.
1/   There are, for example, four different rice crops -- aus, broadcast
aman (B. aman), transplanted aman (T. aman) and boro:
Aus is mainly grown as a broadcast, rainfed crop on non-flooded
to moderately flooded land, sown in March-May and harvested in
July-August. It accounts for about 30% of rice acreage and 25% of
production. Typically, aus is a low yield, high risk crop.
B. aman is sown at the same time as aus on low-lying lands, either
singly or mixed with aus, and is harvested mainly in November. It
includes varieties known as 'floating rice' which can elongate their
stems with rising flood levels. It accounts for about 20% of rice
acreage and about 15% of production. Like aus, it is a rainfed, low
yielding and a high risk crop.
T. aman is the main rice crop in Bangladesh, accounting for about
40% of the rice acreage and 45% of production. It is mainly trans-
planted in July-August on highland or medium highland and harvested
in November-December. Almost all the crop is rainfed, but it is
considerably better yielding and less risky than aus and B. aman.
Boro is the dry-season crop grown with irrigation or in lowland areas
which remain wet throughout the year. It is mainly transplanted in
January-February and harvested in April-May. It accounts for about 10%
of the rice acreage and 15% of the production. It is the highest
yielding and least risk-prone rice crop.



-3-
Constraints and Potential
1.05      Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by the
following:
(a) scarcity of cultivable land -- practically all 22.5 M ac of
cultivable land are already under cultivation. Consequently,
any increases in production must come from more intensive
land use and yield improvements;
(b) limited potential of cultivable land -- large areas of land
are only single cropped due to: deep monsoon flooding
(especially in the north-east), shortness of the rainy
season (in the west), late recession of floodwater in
flood plain basins, low moisture-holding capacity of some
soils, and dry season salinity in areas near the coastline;
(c) limited surface irrigation facilities -- surface water
resources in the dry season are barely enough to irrigate
10% of the cultivated area. Lack of suitable reservoir
sites makes it difficult to store rainy season surplus flows.
The limited surface water potential is already close to full
exploitation;
(d) climatic hazards -- severe floods, droughts, cyclonic
storms and erratic temperatures frequently cause serious
crop damage. The risk of crop loss due to these
factors, combined with the largely subsistence nature of
Bangladesh agriculture, makes it difficult to popularize
improved production technologies requiring the use of cash
inputs; and
(e) poor transportation and communications -- because of its
deltaic origin, Bangladesh is criss-crossed by numerous
rivers and channels. Transportation and communication
across these barriers is often inadequate, slow and
expensive.
1.06      However, the above constraints can be overemphasized.  On the posi-
tive side, Bangladesh has large areas of highly fertile deltaic soils, a
climate suitable for year-round cropping, and abundant groundwater resources
for dry season irrigation. Also, in recent years, the development of high-
yielding varieties (HYVs) of rice and wheat, suitable for cultivation in
large areas of Bangladesh even under rainfed conditions, has opened up the
prospects of substantial increases in production that can be brought about
quickly and inexpensively. Wide differences between the crop husbandry
practices of the "best" farmers and "average" farmers indicate that within
existing constraints, significant gains in production are possible with
little or no increase in cash requirements and risk. Much of the potential,
however, has remained undeveloped so far.



-4-
1.07      The reasons for underdevelopment are primarily sociological and
institutional. There are some seven million farm households in Bangladesh,
90% of which cultivate 5 ac or less. Even "large" farmers in Bangladesh are
small by international standards. 1/ Hence to have any significant impact on
production, developmental programs must necessarily involve the participation
of millions of small farmers. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are hard work-
ing and receptive to proven innovations. However, their efforts have not been
complemented by adequate and timely supplies of farm inputs, relevant technical
advice, and suitable marketing, processing and storage facilities. The failure
of the various existing agencies and departments to fulfill these key functions
is due to weaknesses in planning as well as in implementation. Agricultural
planning has generally been based on an extremely poor data base, inadequate
analysis, and very little feed-back from operating departments, resulting in
unrealistic targets, inflexible and uncoordinated programs, and unexpected
bottlenecks during implementation. On the implementation side, the weaknesses
lie in excessive centralization of decision-making and overly cumbersome admin-
istrative procedures. Implementation also suffers because of inadequately
trained field staff, unattractive staff salaries and benefits, and poorly
defined work responsibilities.
1.08      Lately, the Government has shown increasing awareness of these prob-
lems and has taken a number of steps to overcome them. Among the steps are
increased decentralization in project approval and in procurement and contract-
ing, and simplification of procedures for release of budgetary funds. To
overcome the lack of trained field staff, Bangladesh is implementing several
training projects -- the important ones being the IDA-supported Agricultural
and Rural Training Project (Credit 621-BD, US$12.0 M), and UNDP-assisted
training programs for extension staff and for workshop maintenance personnel.
As a follow-up to a comprehensive crop sector review by the Bank Group, GOB
has initiated a program for improving the effectiveness of the agricultural
extension services. Further support for the extension services is proposed
under an Extension and Research Project (EARP), appraised in November/December
1976 for possible financing by IDA. Also underway, with Bank Group assistance,
is a review of the organization, management and operations of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Bangladesh Agriculture Development Corporation (BADC), the
two agencies most deeply involved in the agricultural sector. A review of the
agricultural credit system is about to get underway with assistance from IDA
and ADB. GOB is also preparing a comprehensive plan for its rural development
activities and has requested IDA to organize and co-ordinate the various bila-
teral and multilateral agencies interested in supporting rural development
programs in Bangladesh.
II. IRRIGATION
General
2.01      For centuries, Bangladesh  farmers have used bucket-lift methods
for irrigating a dry season rice crop (boro) on lands near low lying water
1/   A typical large holding is 10 to 15 ac. It is estimated that currently
less than 20% of the cultivated area is in holdings of 10 ac or more.



- 5 -
bodies and perennial rivers and streams. Until the late 1950s, however,
practically no further efforts were made to develop water resources and
the irrigated area remained stagnant at around 1 M ac. The establishment
of the Water Development Board (WDB) in 1959 and the BADC 1/ in 1961, gave
a major impetus to the development of water resources in Bangladesh. Cur-
rently, irrigation is available for about 2.7 M ac -- 0.2 M ac by gravity
supply; 0.2 M ac by groundwater from tubewells; 1.3 M ac by low-lift pumps,
and about 1.0 M ac by traditional methods.
Constraints to Development
2.02      The development of water resources in Bangladesh presents many
difficulties. The need to maintain a minimum flow in the rivers during the
dry season (in order to prevent saline intrusion from the Bay of Bengal as
well as adverse effects on navigation and fisheries) limits the potential
for surface water irrigation. The flat terrain precludes the development of
large reservoirs for either flood control or water storage for irrigation in
the dry season. Poor transportation facilities cause problems in moving equip-
ment and materials to construction sites. Finally, the small holding size
and high degree of fragmentation -- typical holding is about two acres frag-
mented into five plots -- necessitates the organization of and cooperation
among a large number of farmers for full utilization of even minor irrigation
facilities covering 40-50 ac.
Strategy, Programs and Performance
2.03      In the early 1960s, much of the development effort was focused on
large scale gravity irrigation and flood control projects such as the Ganges-
Kobadak, Chandpur and Coastal Embankment Projects. Although these projects
now provide irrigation to about 0.2 M ac and flood protection to about 1.5 M
ac, their overall impact, particularly in view of the massive investments
involved, has been disappointing. Most of these projects have suffered from
large cost overruns and long implementation delays and benefits to-date have
generally been much smaller than projected. Part of the reason for the dis-
appointing results has been the all-pervasive weakness in implemenation
capacity. However, in retrospect, it would appear that inadequate technical
and economic evaluations are also partly responsible for the poor results.
2.04      Considerably more successful have been relatively low-cost and
quick-yielding minor irrigation schemes such as low-lift pump and tubewell
schemes. Low-lift pumps (LLPs) are small capacity (1-2 cusecs) diesel powered
centrifugal pumps used to raise irrigation water from perennial streams and
ponds. Starting from scratch in the late 1950s, the program has now expanded
to some 40,000 pumps, irrigating an estimated 1.3 M ac. 2/ Despite problems of
1/ Then known as East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority and
East Pakistan Agriculture Development Corporation, respectively.
2/ According to the BADC data, the number of LLPs fielded in various years
were as follows:  1955/56 -- 40; 1960/61 -- 1,400; 1965/66 -- 3,400;
1970/71 -- 24,500; 1975/76 -- 36,400; and 1976/77 (target) -- 40,000.



underutilization and inadequate maintenance, the program is highly attractive
economically. The major constraint to further expansion af the LLP program is
the availability of surface water during the dry season. It is estimated that
installation of some 10,000 additional pumps would exhaust the current poten-
tial. Further expansion of the program would have to be in conjunction with
improvement of natural channels, building of control structures and regulators
and, in some cases, double pumping (e.g. IDA-supported Barisal, Karnafuli and
Muhuri Projects). This would be more expensive but, still quite attractive
in many cases.
2.05      Tubewells to exploit groundwater offer the best prospects for fur-
ther expansion of the irrigated area. Although detailed groundwater surveys
are yet to be carried out, conservative estimates based on preliminary inves-
tigations indicate that some 4 M ac could be irrigated by tubewells. Tubewell
irrigation, although somewhat costlier than that by LLPs, has the advantage
that it allows extension of irrigation to many areas where surface water
resources have already been exhausted (e.g., northwest region). Two kinds of
tubewells are used in Bangladesh -- deep tubewells (DTWs) and shallow tube-
wells (STWs). 1/   Until recently, much of the emphasis in groundwater develop-
ment was placed on DTWs. Some 4,000 DTWs, irrigating an estimated 150,000 ac,
are currently in use. Programs for installation of an additional 5,000 DTWs
(including about 3,000 under the IDA-financed NW Tubewells Project, Credit
341-BD) are also underway. It is expected that by 1978/79, all 9,000 DTWs
would be in operation and the irrigated area should total at least 0.3 M ac.
A proposal for installation of another 1,300 DTWs is under consideration by
ADB for financing as part of a proposed rural development project in four
thanas of the Pabna District (Map 12391).
2.06      Compared to DTWs, STWs are simpler to install and maintain, require
much smaller groups of farmers for optimal utilization and are considerably
less expensive. 2/ Accordingly, the Government has rightly shifted its priority
to STWs. Although so far only about 7,000 STWs have been installed, proposals
are under consideration for installing additional 35,000 STWs over the next
4-5 years -- 2,500 under the IDA financed RD-I Project, 5,500 under an ADB
financed Agricultural Credit Project, 17,000 under bilateral assistance from
Japan, Germany and India, and 10,000 under the project appraised in this re-
port. By the early 1980s, the STWs are expected to irrigate about 0.4 M ac.
1/   The terms DTW and STW are somewhat misleading since some STWs are in
fact sunk more deeply than some DTWs. The major differences are in
complexity of pump and engine design, installation methods, and the
well capacity. Typically, the DTWs are 6-8 inch diameter wells,
equipped with 20 hp diesel engines coupled to submersible pumps, and
yielding about two to three cusecs. In contrast, STWs are 3-4 inch
diameter wells equipped with 5 to 6 hp diesel engines and a surface-
mounted centrifugal pump; typical yield for a STW is a fraction of a
cusec. Total capital and O&M costs per ac-ft of water are estimated
to be about Tk 160 for a STW and Tk 250 for a DTW.
2/   However, in some areas due to low water tables or large drawdowns,
groundwater development may be possible only through DTWs.



2.07      A recent development in exploiting the groundwater potential is
the use of manually powered hand pumps for irrigation. Hand pumps are inex-
pensive, mostly locally made and easy to maintain and operate. Typically,
a hand pump irrigates about 0.3 to 0.5 ac. In view of the small size of
farms and hig'- unemployment, hand pumps are ideally suited to Bangladesh re-
quirements. Two large programs supported by USAID and UNICEF are underway
to install about 500,000 hand pumps for irrigation over the next few years.
2.08      Overall performance in minor irrigation has been quite satisfactory.
However, serious problems remain in utilization and maintenance of irrigation
facilities. Pump/well utilization is only 15 to 20 ac per cusec 1/ compared
to the potential of 25 to 30 ac per cusec. The under-utiLization is partly
due to the poor siting of pumps and tubewells under political pressures and
partly a reflection of difficulties in organizing and managing groups compris-
ing a large number of farmers. The maintenance problems are due to inadequate
workshop facilities, poorly trained field staff, and lack of incentives for
farmers and BADC mechanics to keep equipment in good working condition. Heavy
subsidies on irrigation by the Government are also a contributing factor to
inefficient utilization and poor maintenance by the users of irrigation
facilities.
2.09      Under the recently approved Rural Development I Project (Credit
631-BD), a major effort is being made to improve the pump/well allocation
mechanisms and to facilitate the organization and management of pump groups.
If successful, the Rural Development I Project procedures would be imple-
mented on a nationwide basis. For improving the maintenance of irrigation
facilities, the UNDP/ILO has recently approved a project for training field
staff at various levels. Support for improvement of repair and maintenance
facilities is included in the project appraised in this report.
IDA Support to Irrigation
2.10      Two of the water control projects financed by IDA have been com-
pleted: Dacca Demra (Credit 1-PAK, 1961, US$1.0 M) provides flood protection
for about 10,000 ac and irrigation for about 15,000 ac, and Brahmaputra Embank-
ment (Credit 39-PAK, 1963, US$5.0 M) which gives partial flood protection for
a gross area of about 580,000 ac. IDA has also financed 3,000 low-lift pump
sets (Credit 76-PAK, 1967, US$4.1 M) and 3,800 pump engines (Credit 117-PAK,
1968, US$3.5 M) to provide irrigation for about 275,000 ac. Currently, IDA is
financing: construction of the Chandpur II Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD,
1972, US$13.0 M), to provide flood protection for about 140,000 ac and irriga-
tion for about 75,000 ac; the Northwest Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD, 1972,
US$14.0 M) to provide irrigation from groundwater for about 180,000 ac; the
Barisal Irrigation Project (Credit 542-BD, 1975, US$27.0 M) to provide irriga-
tion for about 140,000 ac by low-lift pumping, and the Karnafuli Irrigation
1/   No reliable and comprehensive statistics are available.  It is gener-
ally agreed however, that the official figures significantly over-
state the actual utilization rates.



- 8 -
Project (Credit 605-BD, 1976, US$21.0 M) for providing irrigation, flood
control and drainage to 46,000 ac. An additional irrigation and flood pro-
tection project (Muhuri Project) is scheduled to be presented to the Board
during FY77.
2.11      The implementation of all four irrigation projects, currently in
execution, is behind schedule by one to two years. The NW Tubewells Project
and the Chandpur II Irrigation Project are also expected to have substantial
cost overruns. Reasons for the slippage of the implementation schedules are
primarily administrative and include difficulties in: hiring of consultants;
appointment of project staff; release of budgetary allocations; approval of
contracts, and coordination among the various implementing agencies. The cost
overruns are partly due to implementation delays and accompanying inflationary
pressures, and partly due to weak financial management and unforeseen tech-
nical problems. The Association and the Government have been discussing spe-
cific measures to improve project execution over a long period. The Govern-
ment has already taken a number of steps to relax the most serious bottlenecks
(para 1.08). The IDA and GOB have also given increased emphasis to regular
monitoring and supervision of the various projects in order to identify and
resolve the potential problems at an early stage.  Also, in preparation and
appraisal of future projects, including the one being appraised, particular
efforts are being made to incorporate the lessons from the previous operations
and to resolve the more serious issues prior to the project approval. These
steps will hopefully be reflected in accelerated project implementation in
the future.
III. PROJECT AREAS
General
3.01      The proposed project would include suitable areas from the five
northwestern Districts - Pabna, Rajshahi, Bogra, Rangpur, and Dinajpur
(Map 12391). The five Districts -- commonly referred to as the northwest
(NW) region -- lie west of the Brahmaputra River and north of the Ganges
and contain 113 thanas distributed as follows: Pabna 17, Rajshahi 29, Bogra
13, Rangpur 32 and Dinajpur 22. They have a combined area of about 13,350
sq mi and an estimated population of about 18 M. Less than 6% of the popula-
tion is urban. Rajshahi is the largest urban center with a population of
about 130,000. Seven other urban centers -- Dinajpur, Saidpur, Rangpur,
Bogra, Nawabganj, Sirajganj and Pabna have populations of over 50,000.
Climate
3.02      The climate is tropical, with heavy seasonal rains interrupted by
a dry period of about four to five months. The mean annual rainfall varies



- 9 -
from 50 to 90 inches in different parts of the NW region. About 90% of the
rainfall occurs betwen May and October, however, occasional showers in March
and April are of considerable importance for cultivation of aus and jute crops.
The rainfall pattern is highly erratic. Large variations occur from year to
year in the dates of onset and cessation of the rainy season as well as in
the amount of rainfall. The region is generally unaffected by cyclones
originating from the Bay of Bengal.
3.03      As in other parts of Bangladesh, temperatures rise steadily from
February to April, remain fairly steady from May to October, and then fall
to reach to a low in December and January. Mean monthly temperatures vary
from the low-sixties to the mid-nineties (OF). Mean relative humidity is
high throughout the year -- ranging from about 60% in April to 90% during
the rainy season. Maximum monthly evaporation -- about six inches -- occurs
during April. On the average, the winds are moderate but localized heavy
storms are liable to occur during April-May. Subject to availability of
irrigation during the dry season, the climate is suitable for year-round
cropping.
Topography and Soils
3.04      The topography is characterized by a very gentle slope to the
southeast, with elevations up to 300 ft in the far northwest and down to
25 ft above mean sea level (MSL) in the southeast. The land gradient in
the northern part of the region averages 2 ft per mi, while the gradient
in the southern Ganges plain averages only 0.2 ft per mi. In the middle is
prominent table land known as the Barind Tract where the topography is flat
to gently undulating. The Tista River crosses the northeast corner of the
region, and a number of small rivers cross the region in a north-south
direction.
3.05      Soils are all alluvial, with the young alluvium of the Tista,
Brahmaputra and Ganges floodplains surrounding a block of older material
constituting the Barind Tract. The major rivers are bordered by broad
flood plains with gently undulating ridges and depressions. Higher ridges
and the Barind Tract are only shallowly flooded or stand above normal flood
levels. Soils at higher elevations on ridges are mainly permeable loams,
with some sandy patches, while in valleys and basins, clays predominate.
Barind Tract soils mainly have an impermeable puddled top soil, except in
some better drained areas along the north-eastern margin.
Water Resources and Drainage
3.06      The scope for surface water irrigation in the NW region is rather
limited. It is estimated that currently available supplies from perennial
rivers and streams as well as from stagnant water bodies, are barely enough
to irrigate about 150,000 ac or about 2% of the total cultivated area in the
region. With some 5,000 LLPs installed currently, this potential is already
close to full exploitation. It is possible to augment the current supplies



- 10 -
somewhat through projects involving major construction works. Two possibil-
ities are the Belkuchi and Pabna projects which are being considered for the
southern part of the region. Technical and economic feasibilities of such
projects are still being investigated. However, even if these projects are
eventually undertaken, because of long gestation delays, it would be at least
ten years before additional areas could be irrigated by surface water.
3.07      In general, the scope for groundwater irrigation is much more
promising. The alluvial deposits underlying the region are excellent acqui-
fier materials, and are highly suitable for development of irrigation wells.
Water tables are generally high -- static water tables rarely go below 15 ft.
Recharge characteristics are also extremely good. Conservatively, it is
estimated that at least one-third of the total cultivated area is potentially
irrigable with groundwater. Groundwater development so far includes about
4,000 DTWs (including 3,000 under the IDA-supported NW Tubewells Projects) and
about 6,000 STWs under various schemes undertaken by BADC and the Bangladesh
Krishi Bank (BKB). Most of the DTWs under the IDA project are still to be
commissioned. However, on commission, expected by the end of 1977, total
installed irrigation potential by groundwater would amount to about 0.2 M ac.
3.08      Much of the agricultural land is flooded during the monsoon but
generally this is shallow flooding only; less than one-quarter of the culti-
vated area is flooded by more than 3 ft and a mere 8% by more than 6 ft. The
eastern part of the region has direct flood protection from an embankment on
the Brahamaputra River's right bank.
Transportation
3.09      Most major towns and urban centers in the NW region are accessible
by a 500 mi network of all-weather paved roads. The region is also served
by 616 route miles of railroads -- 280 mi of Broad Gauge (BG) and 336 mi of
Meter Gauge (MG). The BG route runs the length of the region in the north-
south direction and extends to the city of Khulna in the southwest thus pro-
viding an important link for the region with the seaport at Chalna. The
MG route serving the northern part of the region is the main connection with
the rail system east of the Brahmaputra River. The region is poorly served
by water transport. Although there are nearly 200 mi of waterway routes
along the Ganges and Brahmaputra suitable for mechanized inland water trans-
portation, only limited passenger launch facilities are available at present.
Transportation to and from the region is limited by the difficulties of cross-
ing the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers which form the southern and eastern
boundaries of the region. Facilities for local transportation are primitive
and limited: for most villages, the usual link to markets and other trans-
portation arteries is through katcha (dirt) tracks and to a limited extent
through waterways and streams. Compared with the rest of the country, water
transportation is much less significant during the rainy season.
Farm Sizes and Land Tenure
3.10      According to the 1960 Census of Agriculture, the five northwest
Districts had an average farm size ranging from 3.8 ac in Bogra to 5.5 ac



- 11 -
in Dinajpur, the averages for the NW region and the whole country being
4.5 and 3.5 ac, respectively. The region had a total of about 1.5 M farms.
Over one-third of the farms in the region were 2.5 ac or less while only
5% of the farms were 12.5 ac or more. Farms smaller than 2.5 ac accounted
for about 10% of the cultivated area while those over 12.5 ac, about 20%
(Table 2). About one-half of the farms as well as about one-half of the
cultivated area were owner operated; the remaining being owner-cum-tenant
operated. Very few farms were purely tenant farms.
3.11      No reliable and comprehensive information is available on changes
in farm size distribution or the tenurial situation since 1960. However,
according to the 1974 Population Census, the total number of households in
the five NW Districts increased from about 2.3 M in 1960 to about 3.1 M in
1974, i.e. an increase of about 35%. Meanwhile the cultivated area is esti-
mated to have increased by less than 5% -- from about 6.7 M ac in 1960 to
about 6.9 M ac at present. As the urban population grew faster than the rural
population (for the five NW Districts, 85% vs 45% during 1960-1974) and as the
number of rural landless households is also likely to have grown faster, the
decrease in average farm size since 1960 should be considerably less than 35%
-- perhaps 20% to 25%. Thus, the current average farm size in the five Dis-
tricts could be 3.5 ac instead of 4.5 ac 16 years ago. It is generally
believed that since 1960 farm size distribution as well as the tenurial
situation has worsened somewhat.
3.12      The 1960 census of agriculture also found that the farms were heav-
ily fragmented; over one-third of the farms were comprising ten separate plots
or more. However, not all fragmentation is disadvantageous or involuntary.
Given the unpredictability of rainfall and flooding patterns in Bangldesh,
cultivation of plots at different elevations is often an attempt to reduce
the risk of total crop failure and to gain some flexibility in cropping pat-
terns and calendars.
Land Use and Agricultural Production
3.13      Out of a gross area of about 8.5 M ac, 6.9 M ac or about 80% is under
cultivation. On the average, reported cropping intensities in the region are
somewhat lower than those in other parts of the country. Rice is the dominant
crop throughout the region although jute, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, tobacco
and vegetables are also important crops in parts of the region. Recently,
wheat cultivation in the dry season has become popular. Due to lack of
irrigation facilities, boro cultivation is practiced only on about 5% of the
cultivated area.
3.14      Land use is mainly characterized by three distinct cropping
patterns (Map 12392):
(i) in Pabna District and parts of Rajshahi and Bogra Districts,
most of the land is too deeply flooded for T. aman and hence
deepwater B. aman is the main crop. In deep basin sites, it
is grown alone, but on less deeply flooded ridges, it is



- 12 -
commonly grown mixed with aus and is followed by a dry
land rabi crop. Cropping intensities, yields and pro-
duction levels are generally low and risks of crop fail-
ures are above average. Typical holding size required to
provide subsistence level income 1/ for an average farm
family is about 3 ac. It is estimated that currently 50-
60% of the holdings are too small to provide even subsistence
level incomes 2/;
(ii) in the Barind Tract (covering parts of Bogra, Rajshahi and
Dinajpur Districts), the land is flooded only shallowly and
is well-suited for T. aman but is poorly suited for aus,
jute and dry land rabi crops. Thus, the cropping intensi-
ties are low. Aman yields are, however, relatively high
and production levels are moderate. The risks of crop
failures are below average. Subsistence level farm holding
size is about 2 ac and it is estimated that about one-third
of the holdings are smaller than that; and
(iii)   in Rangpur District and parts of Bogra and Dinajpur
Districts, the conditions are most favorable; flooding
is shallow, permitting cultivation of T. aman. Soil con-
ditions and rainfall are also suitable for cultivation
of an aus or jute crop during the spring. Overall the
cropping intensities, yields and production levels are
relatively high and the risks of crop failure are
relatively small. Subsistence level holding size is
about 1.5 ac. About one-quarter of the farm holdings are
estimated to be below that level.
Table 3 gives the District-wise breakdowns of cropped areas and production of
the major crops as well as estimates of per capita food availability.
1/   Assuming a per capita cereals consumption of a 16 oz per day, a 20% margin
for non-cereal foods to achieve a balanced diet, and a 30% margin for non-
food expenditures (housing, clothes, fuels, medicines, etc.), the per
capita subsistence level requirements are estimated to be the equivalent
of about 300 kg of rice (or 12 mds of paddy) per year. Due to wide fluc-
tuations in foodgrain prices in Bangladesh (para 7.02), expressing the
subsistence level in monetary terms is not very meaningful, particularly
because much of the farm produce is generally for home consumption. The
per capita subsistence level, for example, would be about US$55 for the
price assumption corresponding to the basic case (para 7.05), US$40 based
on the prevailing foodgrain prices, and about US$75 at the projected
world market prices.
2/   It should be noted that roughly about one-third of all rural families
are landless. Practically all of the landless families are also below
the subsistence level. Thus, overall about 70% of the rural families
in these areas have below subsistence level incomes.



- 13 -
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.15      The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for agricultural research
and extension, and, through BADC, for procurement and distribution of agricul-
tural inputs. The Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives is responsible for the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Program (IRDP), cooperatives, and the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP).
The IRDP at present covers only 39 thanas out of a total of 113 thanas in the
NW region. By June 1977, 15 additional thanas would be brought under IRDP
(para 4.08).
3.16      Agricultural Research.  The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
(BRRI), which was established in 1970 and works in close cooperation with
the International Rice Research Institute, is responsible for research on
various aspects of rice improvement and production, and for training of ex-
tension staff in rice production technology. The Agricultural Research Insti-
tute deals with development of crops such as wheat, pulses and oilseeds.
Separate organizations also exist for research on jute, cotton, tobacco and
sugarcane. Others involved in agricultural research are the Mymensingh Agri-
cultural University and the Soil Fertility Institute. Research coordination
is the responsibility of the newly established Bangladesh Agricultural Re-
search Council.
3.17      The quality of research conducted by BRRI is good.  However, the
other research organizations suffer from lack of staff, funds and, to some
extent, motivation. Also, a major problem with the current research program
is lack of emphasis on adapting basic research results to the different agro-
ecological conditions found in various parts of Bangladesh. Support for
strengthening adaptive research is being considered under the proposed EARP.
3.18      Agricultural Extension Services.  The Directorate of Agriculture
(Extension and Management) in the Ministry of Agriculture, maintains exten-
sion agents at District, sub-division, thana and union levels. The Union
Agricultural Assistants who amount to an average of one per 2,000 farm fam-
ilies are the primary field extension workers. Their work is supervised by
Thana Agriculture Officers. In addition, several other agencies are involved
in agricultural extension. Among them are IRDP, WDB, the Ministry of Jute,
the Cotton Development Board, the Horticulture Development Board, the Tobacco
Development Board and the Sugar Development Corporation.
3.19       The extension service has been largely ineffective so far because:
(a) its programs tend to be obsolete and diffuse, seldom focusing on speci-
fically attainable objectives; (b) the technical advice given by extension
workers often lags behind practical research findings; (c) the staff is poorly
trained and handicapped by a lack of transportation facilities, housing and
training materials; and (d) extension workers are often used by other agencies
for administrative work, such as the census, as well as statistical reporting.
During the past years, in recognition of the importance of an effective exten-
sion service, the Government took a number of steps to strengthen it. Among
them are the progressive in-service training of graduates at the thana level
and the introduction of the "Training and Visit" system on a national basis.
Further reorganization and strengthening of the agricultural extension services



- 14 -
in the NW region, along the lines successfully adopted in several Bank Group-
supported projects in South Asia, would be the primary objective of the pro-
posed EARP (para 1.08).
3.20      Fertilizers.  The BADC procures and distributes fertilizers to
approved private dealers and TCCAs for distribution to farmers. This pro-
cedure has been quite satisfactory, except in periods when BADC could not
obtain adequate supplies for distribution. Fertilizer use in the project
area increased from an average of 7 lb per ac in 1965/66 to 25 lb at present.
However, the application rates still remain considerably below those recom-
mended. Currently, in the northwest region BADC owns or rents some 250
fertilizer stores with a total capacity of about 60,000 tons. This capacity is
adequate for the present requirement. Future storage requirements and meas-
ures for improved management and inventory control are being investigated in
a study financed under a Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 409-BD). Some
high priority storage requirements are likely to be financed under a proposed
fertilizer storage project.
3.21      Plant Protection. The BADC is responsible for procurement of pes-
ticides, while the Plant Protection Directorate 1/ under the Ministry of Agri-
culture is responsible for storage, distribution and advice on application.
Prior to 1974, pesticides were supplied to the farmers free of cost which often
led to inefficient and wasteful use. Although a 50% reduction in the subsidy
since then has cut down on wastage, farmers' knowledge about types, dosages
and precautionary measures is still inadequate. Pesticide consumption in the
NW region was about 400 tons in 1974/75. The Plant Protection Directorate
controls about 250 tons of storage capacity in the region and plans to double
this capacity over the next few years.
3.22      Seeds.  The BADC is responsible for procurement, multiplication and
distribution of HYV seeds. Seed multiplication is done on BADC farms and
also on approved private seed farms under the registered seed growers' scheme.
Once new varieties have been introduced to an area, farmers retain seed from
their previous harvest or obtain it from their neighbors. Generally, BADC
seeds have been insufficient in quantity, irregular in supply and poor in
quality due to the lack of properly trained staff, poor facilities and equip-
'ment frt production and processing, inefficient management of seed farms and
poor quality control, especiallyp of certified seed. To improve the avail-
ability of good quality seeds for rice and wheat, IDA is financing a Cereal
Seed Project (Credit 410-BD, 1973). After substantial delays, the project is
progressing satisfactorily now and it is expected that supply of seeds would
improve significantly in the near future.
1/ Merged into the Extension and Management Directorate in 1976. Cur-
rently GOB is considering proposals for handing over the responsibi-
lities for procurement, storage and distribution of pesticides to the
private sector.



- 15 -
3.23      Agricultural Credit.  About 85% of agricultural credit is from non-
institutional sources (money-lenders, traders, friends and relatives). The
main sources of institutional agricultural credit are: (a) the Bangladesh
Krishi Bank (BKB); (b) the Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank (BJSB), through
its Central Cooperative Banks and Traditional Krishi Samabaya Samities (KSS)
or village cooperatives and Union Cooperative Multi-purpose Societies; and,
(c) the commercial banks through IRDP cooperative societies (IRDP-TCCA/KSSs).
Although BJSB provides both short-term and medium-term loans, its loans are
mostly used for crop production inputs. The BKB advances mostly medium-term
loans to individual farmers for financing larger investments such as STWs,
draft animals and agricultural implements. Both BKB and BJSB have an unsatis-
factory record; loans are often misused, the repayment record is poor and the
beneficiaries are mostly larger farmers. Commercial bank (mostly Sonali Bank)
involvement in agricultural credit started only in 1973. Although Sonali
Bank's performance through IRDP has been good (annual repayment rates average
80%), the success of such an involvement is constrained by the limited coverage
of the IRDP-KSS system. Recently, several other commercial banks have shown
interest in providing agricultural credit.
3.24      The agricultural credit situation was the subject of a Bank Review
Mission in 1974. Further review is underway with assistance from the Bank and
the Asian Development Bank. Recommendations from the latter review would form
the basis for discussions with GOB on the reorganization and strengthening
of the agricultural credit system.
3.25      Storage, Marketing and Processing Facilities.  Farm production in
the region is largely used for subsistence. Less than 25% of the total paddy
crop and a somewhat higher percentage of wheat, vegetables, fruits and pulses
are marketed. Jute, sugarcane and tobacco are the only crops grown primarily
for the market. Farmers normally take their produce by carry-pole, oxcart
and boat to the vilage markets, where it is bought by small traders and then
sold to successively larger brokers before reaching the wholesale dealers
in the town market. Sugarcane and tobacco are taken to purchase centers
provided by the sugar mills and the tobacco company. Small farmers usually
sell soon after harvest. Traditionally, the lowest paddy price is received
during November-January for the main aman crop.
3.26      Farmers usually store paddy in containers made of bamboo strips and
plastered with clay. The containers are satisfactory only if paddy is well
dried. Substantial storage losses, particularly of the monsoon harvested aus
and bQro paddy, are suspected. Many private dealers have small godowns for the
storage of paddy and rice. Rice for home consumption is processed by hand
pounding and by rice huskers operated by village entrepreneurs. Most marketed
paddy is milled in commercial rice mills. The existing facilities for rice
milling in the NW are considered adequate. The region also has adequate
facilities for oilseed milling, jute baling and cold storage of potatoes.



- 16 -
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would provide irrigation to about 150,000 ac
in the northwest region through the installation of 10,000 small capacity
STWs. The project would also improve the workshop facilities for mainte-
nance of all irrigation equipment (some 5,000 LLPs, 20,000 STWs and 4,000
DTWs) in the NW region. The major objectives of the project are: (a) to
increase foodgrain production; (b) to improve farm income levels; (c) to
rationalize and strengthen rural institutions; and (d) to improve utilization
of existing investment in irrigation facilities.
Issues in Prolect Formulation
4.02      Project formulation involved the resolution of the following major
issues: (a) the areas to be covered under the project; (b) the institutional
set-up for sale of STWs and provision of credit facilities to farmers; (c)
the feasibility and consistency of GOB's overall program for shallow tubewell
development in Bangladesh; and (d) the scope of the project. Below is a brief
discussion of these issues and decisions made during formulation and appraisal.
4.03.          Project Areas.  Although practically the whole NW region is
suitable for groundwater development, areas in the northern part (Dinajpur,
Rangpur and parts of Bogra Districts) have a somewhat better potential than
the rest of the region and thus would be the natural choice for siting of the
project tubewells. However, because of favorable climatic and topographic
features, the northern parts at present have income and production levels
considerably higher than those in the rest of the region (para 3.14). Also,
while the northern parts have a food surplus, the southern parts are chronic
food deficit areas and any additional production there would pose fewer
problems of marketing, storage and transportation. In view of these factors,
it was decided that, rather than restrict the project only to the areas with
optimal groundwater potential, it would include all areas in the region which
are feasible for STW development. 1/
4.04      Criteria were developed for ensuring that no tubewells would be
sited in technically unsuitable areas. Provision has been made in the proj-
ect for preparation of irrigation maps by local consultants for each of the
thanas to indicate areas satisfying minimal feasibility requirements. Assur-
ances have been obtained that a precondition for installing project STWs
in a thana would be the availability of a Thana Irrigation Map, prepared in
accordance with standards satisfactory to IDA.
1/   However, to avoid excessive concentration of tubewells and organiza-
tional and procedural problems, eight thanas -- four in Bogra District
covered under IDA-financed Rural Development I Project and four in
Pabna District, earmarked for coverage under a proposed rural develop-
ment project by ADB -- were excluded from the project.



- 17 -
4.05      Institutional Set-Up.  Three alternatives were considered:  (i)
cash sales by BADC with buyers raising the necessary financial resources on
their own; (ii) sales through the on-going 'hire-purchase' program of BADC
(under the program, BADC handles all technical and financial aspects and
provides credit to the buyers from its own resources); and (iii) arrange-
ments similar to those used in the recently approved Rural Development Project
(Credit 631-BD) where sales are restricted to groups of farmers, with commer-
cial banks providing the credit facilities and IRDP being responsible for
organization and selection of the groups.
4.06      The main advantages of the first alternative are its simplicity and
the scope offered for mobilization of private savings for productive invest-
ments in agriculture. Field surveys indicated, however, that demand under a
system of cash sales would be limited. Also, most beneficiaries would neces-
sarily be the relatively well-to-do, larger farmers. The main advantages of
the second alternatives are again the simplicity of its procedures and absence
of inter-agency co-ordination problems, permitting speedy implementation.
However, BADC is primarily a technical organization without the necessary
staffing and banking expertise to administer large agricultural credit opera-
tions. Field checks of the past sales under 'hire-purchase' scheme indicated
that BADC tended to advance loans without adequate appraisal of the credit-
worthiness of the borrowers and that it had an extremely high default rate on
its loans. 1/ Also, as BADC did not have adequate field staff to verify the
data submitted by the applicants, most of the tubewells, although nominally
sold to groups of small farmers, had actually gone to politically and
economically more influential, farmers. Lastly, since the farmers owning
(controlling) tubewells exacted very high water rates from the neighboring
farmers, 2/ the utilization rates for STWs were substantially below what is
technically feasible.
4.07      The third alternative is still to be fully tested.  However, its
major advantages would lie in its potential for strengthening of rural credit
institutions by fostering strict credit discipline and by improving appraisal
and supervision procedures. Also, its emphasis on developing verifiable re-
cords for the applicants would lead to increased participation by the small
farmers and better utilization of the tubewells. The major problem with this
alternative is likely to be the iniatially slower implementation rate. Also,
the alternative would rule out thanas which are not covered by IRDP.
4.08      Thus, none of the three alternatives is fully satisfactory.  To
strike a judicious balance between the various developmental objectives such
1/   Consolidated records on recovery performance are unavailable.  On the
basis of partial data, it is estimated that out of some 1,500 STWs sold
on 'hire purchase' in the NW region, 80-90% are currently in default.
2/   In some instances, the rates demanded were 2 to 3 times of those required
to cover capital and O&M costs.



- 18 -
as 'growth', 'equity' and 'institution building', it was agreed with GOB that
BADC would discontinue its 'hire-purchase' system in the project areas and that
sale of tubewells under the project would be through the following three
channels:
(a) cash sales by BADC;
(b) sales to IRDP groups with credit from commercial banks (CBs)
under arrangements similar to those in the Rural Development
I Project. (Terms: 10% down-payment, five years maturity,
12% interest, inclusion of small farmers in the groups and
settlement of past debts); and
(c) sales to individuals 1/ on direct credit from CBs on terms
which would be stricter than those to IRDP groups. (Terms:
20% downpayment, up to five years maturity, 12% interest
and settlement of past debts).
It is estimated that about 10% of sales would be on a cash basis, 60% to IRDP
groups and 30% to individuals. All three channels would operate in parallel.
However, to ensure participation by the small farmers, 5,000 (50%) of project-
financed tubewells would be reserved for IRDP groups. To generate additional
demand from IRDP groups, 15 additional thanas in the northwest region would
be brought under IRDP coverage (Map 12391). GOB's formal agreement has been
obtained for the sales arrangements proposed above. Assurances have also been
obtained that by December 31, 1977, BADC would phase out the "hire-purchase"
system on a country-wide basis.
4.09      Program Feasibility and Consistency.  In addition to the 10,000 STWs
proposed under the project, GOB has arranged external assistance for about
25,000 STWs for installation during the next few years (para 2.06). In view
of this, the feasibility and consistency of GOB's overall program for STWs
was thoroughly reviewed. The review indicated that although there was some
need for further preparatory work, the program was feasible and would be
consistent with the approach adopted in the proposed IDA project. Following
extensive discussions with IDA on the overall program, the Government in-
dicated that:
(a) in order to avoid localized problems of excessive concentra-
tion and poor siting of tubewells, BADC would hire consultants
to compile Thana Irrigation Maps, as under the IDA project
(para 4.04), for the rest of the country as well; and
(b) it would provide suitable credit support for the entire STW
program. The outline of a banking plan specifying inter alia
financing institutions, refinancing facilities, guarantee
arrangements, lending terms and conditions, and "lead bank"
areas has already been worked out;
1/   In non-IRDP thanas several individuals may jointly buy an STW with direct
credit from CBs. Lending terms and conditions for these would be same
as those to individuals. The number of such sales is likely to be small.



- 19 -
(c) it would follow uniform pricing principles for sale
of shallow tubewells obtained from various sources.
4.10      Scope of the Project.  The major issue in this regard was whether
or not to include provisions for strengthening agricultural supporting ser-
vices to complement the investments to be made in tubewells. Undoubtedly,
strengthening of supporting services such as extension and farm input supply
would add significantly to the benefits to be derived from STWs. However,
experience in Bangladesh with projects involving inter-agency co-ordination
has been rather unsatisfactory. Since tubewell irrigation is highly attrac-
tive financially and economically even without a full package of supporting
services and as, in addition, a Research and Extension Project aimed at
strengthening supporting services in the NW region is already under consider-
ation by IDA, it was decided to limit the project to those services which
are essential to the successful operation of the tubewells, i.e. the provision
of adequate workshop facilities for maintenance of the STWs. Since the same
workshop facilities serve STWs, LLPs and DTWs, to avoid unnecessary fragmenta-
tion of effort, project support would cover all irrigation equipment in the
region rather than just STWs.
Project Components -- Summary
4.11      The project would include the provision of:
(a) equipment, materials and incidentals for the installation
of 10,000 power-pumped STWs. To demarcate areas suitable
for STW development, financial support would be provided
to BADC for hiring local engineering consultants to com-
pile and analyze existing hydrological data and to prepare
Thana Irrigation Maps. Funds would also be provided for
conducting additional tests where existing hydrological
data is inadequate;
(b) credit facilities through commercial banks (The Sonali
and Janata Banks) to eligible IRDP groups and individuals
for financing the purchase of about 9,000 tubewells -- an
estimated 6,000 by IRDP groups and the rest by individual
buyers. Vehicles and office equipment would be provided to
the staff from IRDP, the Sonali Bank and the Janata Bank to
help them in administering and supervising the credit pro-
gram. To improve operations of IRDP's village level
societies (KSSs), funds would be provided to IRDP
for preparing debt inventories and land registers for
IRDP-KSSs in the NW region.
(c) strengthening of repair and maintenance facilities for
the existing and proposed irrigation equipment in the
NW region (a total of about 5,000 LLPs, 4,000 DTWs and
20,000 STWs). The project support would include: (i)



- 20 -
civil works for completion/construction of one regional
workshop, five zonal workshops and about 100 thana work-
shops, involving a total of about 130,000 sq ft of floor
space; (ii) incremental requirements of machinery and
equipment for the regional, zonal and thana workshops
as well as a lump sum allocation of US$0.5 M for import
of machinery and equipment for sale to private sector
workshops; (iii) transport and vehicles for the BADC
field staff in the NW region; and (iv) two man-years
of expatriate technical assistance for helping in
implementation of the proposed program for strength-
ening of repair and maintenance facilities; and
(d) services of a qualified local consulting firm for
conducting appropriate field surveys to evaluate the
production and distributive impact of the project-
financed STWs. Detailed studies would also be
conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the
improved repair and maintenance facilities. In
addition, the project would include a program for
compiling and analyzing the bore-log data for the
wells, and for monitoring the tubewell yields.
Project Components -- Detailed Decription
A.   Shallow Tubewells
4.12      Design Specifications.  The tubewells would be four-inch diameter
wells equipped with diesel powered pump sets. The main criteria in specifica-
tion of the various tubewell components would be the economy, ruggedness and
simplicity of operation. It is expected that the engines would be single
cylinder, 4-stroke cycle type, developing about 6 BHP at 1,500 RPM. The
engine would have a manual starting system and a forced lubrication system.
The pumps would be of centrifugal type with 4-inch suction and delivery dia-
meters. The engine and pump would be directly coupled through a flexible
flange coupling and would be mounted on a solid base. The wells would have
PVC or GI screens and casings, and would average 90 ft in depth.
4.13      Siting and Installation.  Minimal feasibility criteria for siting
of project tubewells would be that:
(a) pre-monsoon water table is expected to be within 15 ft
of the surface;
(b) surface clay layers are expected to be less than 20 ft
thick;
(c) no deep tubewell exists within 2,500 ft of the site; and
(d) no shallow tubewell exists within 500 ft of the site.



- 21 -
Installation would be done by local contractors, using locally constructed
rigs and locally developed labor-intensive techniques. It is expected that
each tubewell would yield about 0.75 cusec from a water table typically
12 to 15 ft below the surface. During installation, particular care would be
taken that well depths are kept to the minimum necessary and that the wells
are developed properly to exploit their full potential.
4.14      Compilation of existing hydrological data and preparation of Thana
Irrigation Maps showing feasibility for STW development is already underway.
Assurances have been obtained from BADC that in project thanas where the
existing hydrological data is found to be inadequate, it would commission
the drilling of test bore holes and other appropriate tests, to determine,
before June 30, 1978, the suitability of those thanas for STW development.
A lumpsum provision of Tk 3.0 M has been included under the project for pre-
paring the Thana Irrigation Maps and for undertaking additional investiga-
tions where necessary.
4.15      Costs and Pricing.  A component-wise breakdown of the estimated
costs for installing a 4-inch diameter tubewell is as follows:
Cost in Tks
Item                               Local    Foreign    Total
(a) Mechanical Equipment
6 hp Diesel Engine                        500       4,500       5,000
4-inch Centrifugal Pump
with base and couplings                 200       2,200       2,400
(b) Casing, Screen and Pipework
4-inch Pipe (50 ft)                        -        1,500       1,500
4-inch Screen (40 ft)                      -        1,600       1,600
Miscellaneous Fittings incl.
Priming Pump                            400         900       1,300
(c)  Installation and Development            2,000          -        2,000
(d)  Physical Contingencies /a                 400         600       1,000
(e)  Taxes and Duties /b                     2,900          -        2,900
(f)  Transport, Handling and Overheads /c  1,500           300       1,800
Total Cost per STW                    7,900      11,600      19,500
Cost for 10,000 STWs  =               Tk 195.0 M
/a   15% of items (b) and (c).
/b   15% import duties on the foreign cost and 20% sales tax on the landed
cost of engine.
/c   10% of other costs.



- 22 -
4.16      In addition to equipment, materials and incidentals for installation
of 10,000 STWs as detailed above, the project would provide 500 pump sets
(engines and pumps) i.e. 5% of the total, to be retained by BADC as standby
units for temporary rental to buyers whose pump sets break down during the
irrigation season. The project would also include procurement of spare parts
worth 20% of the cost of 10,500 pumpsets. The spares would be retained by
BADC and sold to buyers or qualified private sector mechanics for repair and
maintenance of the project-financed tubewells. The total cost for standby
pumpsets and spare parts is estimated to be as follows:
Cost in M Tks
Item                            Local    Foreign    Total
(a)  Standby Pump sets (500)                 0.3        3.4        3.7
(b)  Spare parts for 10,500 Pump sets /a   1.5         14.1       15.6
(c)  Taxes and duties /b                     6.3         -         6.3
(d)  Transport, handling and BADC
overhead /c                             4.5        0.6        5.1
Total                 12.6       18.1      30.7
/a   20% of the cost of Pump sets.
/b   An average of 35% of foreign costs.
/c   20% of other costs.
4.17      The tubewell price to the buyer would be based primarily on actual
procurement costs. However, the prices would be adjusted from time to time to
take into account prevailing foodgrain prices, farmer demand for STWs, overall
growth strategy for the agricultural sector, charges for other irrigation
facilities (LLPs, DTWs, etc.) and the impact on the GOB budget. The Government
has agreed that the price to the buyers would cover at least the full capital
cost (net of taxes and duties). In cases where drilling for a tubewell
results in a dry hole (expected in less than 5% of the cases), no charge would
be levied on the potential buyers, instead the installation cost for the
successful tubewells would be adjusted to reflect this contingency. Initially,
a 5% premium would be added to item (c). During implementation, the premium
would be adjusted according to the field experience on the failure rate.
To avoid any potential conflict, assurances have been obtained that in the
project areas, after December 31, 1977, any non-project STWs would be sold
at prices and on terms and conditions comparable to those proposed under
the project.
4.18      The standby pump sets would be distributed among the various thanas
according to the concentration of project tubewells. The rental rate for the



- 23 -
pump sets would be set at a level adequate to recover the full capital cost of
the standby sets over their expected lives. The spare parts would be sold to
buyers at cost plus adequate margin to cover BADCs overhead costs.
4.19      Regulation of Groundwater Development.  Although groundwater develop-
ment in Bangladesh is still in the very early stages, and it will probably be
many years before regional hydrological constraints are approached, there are
some localized areas in which problems of interference and excessive drawdown
soon may occur. To minimize future problems and the more pressing present
problems, it is imperative that GOB should start preparing suitable legisla-
tion for an orderly development of the country's groundwater resources.
Assurances have been obtained that the Government would appoint an expert
committee to review the issue and that the committee would submit its proposals
for review by IDA by December 31, 1979.
B.   Credit Facilities
4.20      Including the likely price escalation over the four year implemen-
tation period, the total cost to the buyers of the 9,000 tubewells expected to
be sold on credit is estimated at about Tk 177 M. Net of the downpayments by
the buyers, the total credit requirements for financing the 9,000 tubewells
would be about Tk 153 M -- Tk 107 for the IRDP groups and Tk 46 M for individ-
ual buyers.
4.21      Credit facilities for the project would be administered by the
Sonali and Janata banks, the two largest nationalized commercial banks in
Bangladesh. The participation of both the Sonali and Janata banks was
decided in view of the relatively large size of the operation as well as
the keen desire of other commerical banks to follow the Sonali Bank's lead
in orienting their lending towards the agricultural sector. To avoid uneces-
sary duplication, there would be a geographical demarcation of the areas of
operation for the two banks -- the Sonali Bank would provide credit in Bogra,
Dinajpur and Pabna Districts and the Janata Bank in Rajshahi and Rangpur
Districts. Both banks would have same terms and conditions for lending and
follow same lending procedures.
4.22      The main features of the proposed credit facilities would be
as follows:
I.   Terms and Conditions of Lending
(a) Loan Eligibility. The project would require all appli-
cants (groups or individuals) to: (i) settle or reschedule
their outstanding institutional debts according to the
guidelines agreed with GOB for the IDA-supported RD-I
Project; (ii) have a farm plan indicating use of the
tubewell for irrigating at least 10 ac; and (iii) be



- 24 -
located in areas which have been adjudged as feasible
for STW development as per the Thana Irrigation Maps
prepared by BADC. For groups in IRDP thanas, it would
also be necessary that the applicants are members of
TCCA-KSSs, and at least one-half of the proposed irri-
gated area belongs to farmers whose total holdings are
less than 3 ac each. It is expected that it would be
possible to provide tubewells to all applicants who
satisfy above eligibility criteria. However, if neces-
sary, the various applicants would be ranked taking into
consideration the total area to be irrigated as well
as the number of farmers to be served, as under the RD-I
Project.
(b) Loan Security would be in the form of liens on the
tubewells. In addition, promissory notes from TCCAs
with respect to loans made to IRDP grouis and mort-
gages on at least 2 ac of land for individual buyers
would be obtained.
(c) Downpayment. A downpayment of 10% from the IRDP groups
and 20% from individual buyers would be required.
(d) Interest Rate. A uniform interest rate of 12% would be
charged from all borrowers.
(e) Loan Maturity would depend upon the repayment capacity of
the borrowers, but would not exceed five years. Repayment
would be by semi-annual installments to be paid before
September 30 (following the sale of the boro/wheat crops)
and March 31 (following the sale of the aman crop) each
year.  The September installment would generally be twice
as large as the March installment. The first installment
would not fall due for at least six months after
commissioning of the well.
II.   Financing Plan
The financing for the proposed credit program would come
from two sources -- about 70% from counterpart funds gen-
erated by IDA disbursements against procurement of equipment
and materials for STWs by BADC, and the rest from the internal
resources of the Sonali and Janata banks. The projected yearly
credit requirements and the proposed financing plan are as
follows:



- 25 -
Fiscal Year
Total  77/78  78/79   79/80  80/81
--------------Tk million-----
Cost of STWs to be financed /a               177.0  15.5    50.2    53.8   57.5
Financing
--Downpayments by borrowers /b               23.7   2.1      6.7      7.2    7.7
--By GOB as counterpart funds /c            106.2   9.3    30.1    32.3   34.5
--By CBs  /d                                 47.1   4.1    13.4    14.3   15.3
--Collections from previous loans /e /f   28.8    -          2.0      9.0   17.8
of which to GOB                           (20.0)   -      (1.4)   (6.3) (12.3)
to CBs                           (8.8)   -      (0.6)   (2.7)  (5.5)
/a   Assuming credit sales of 900 tubewells during 1977/78 and 2,700 each
during the following three years. In all years, two-thirds of the
sales are assumed to IRDP groups and the rest to individuals.
/b   10% by IRDP groups and 20% by individual buyers.
/c   60% of the cost of STWs.
Id   20% of the cost for individual buyers and 30% for IRDP groups.
/e   Assuming that in any year, 75% of the loans due or overdue would be
recovered.
/f   Repayment of loan principal would continue until 1987/88.
Recoveries of principal from the borowers would be split
between CBs and GOB in proportion to the amounts financed
from CBs' own resources and the counterpart funds contri-
buted by GOB (i.e. about 70% to GOB and 30% to CBs).
III.   Interest Rate Spreads
The following factors have been considered in working out the
interest rate structure:
(a)  the interest rate to the final borrowers should be
uniform and consistent with those charged for similar
purposes under other schemes and projects. GOB has
decided to set the interest rate on lending for mostly
agricultural purposes (including STWs) at 12% 1U.
(b) the commerical banks (CBs) should earn a 9% annual return
(1% over the Bank rate) on their own funds; 2/
1/   For comparison some other interest rates prevailing in Bangladesh are
as follows: savings accounts 4-6%; fixed deposits 6-9%; prime rate 8%;
bank advances for commercial purposes 12-13%; and private money lenders
20-100%.
2/   Weighted average cost of capital to CBs is estimated to be around 4% per
annum.



- 26 -
(c) for lending to individuals and IRDP groups, the CBs should
respectively receive, annual margins of 3.75% and 1.5% for
administrative and supervision expenses;
(d) for lending to IRDP groups, adequate margins should be
provided to TCCAs and KSSs to make them financially
viable institutions; and
(e) to strengthen the agricultural credit system any
interest earnings by the GOB should be contributed
to the Agricultural Guarantee Fund 1/.
The proposed interest rate structure for lending to
IRDP groups is as follows:
Interest   Spread
%         %             Utilization
CBs to TCCAs                5.00       5.00    1.50% Admin. Expenses
3.00% Margin for use of
own Funds by CBs /a
0.50% Contribution to the
Guarantee Fund
TCCAs to KSSs               8.00       3.00    3.00% Admin. Cost and Service
Charge
KSSs to Borrowing          12.00       4.00    1.00% Admin. Cost
Members                                         1.50% Collection Commission
1.50% Provision for Bad Debts
/a   Since CBs provide one-third of the total lending to IRDP groups
(e.g., 30% of STW cost compared to 60% provided by GOB from the
counterpart funds, para 4.22 (II)), this would be equivalent to
a return of 9% on CB's own funds.
1/   Established by GOB in 1974 to provide a cushion against overdues in
the agricultural credit sector. As of June 30, 1976, total reserves
in the fund amounted to about Tk 70 M. As the operational rules for
covering overdues have not yet been finalized the fund is presently
used for refinancing of agricultural credit institutions by the
Bangladesh Bank.



- 27 -
The interest rate structure for lending to individual buyers is as
follows:
Interest   Spread
%       _              Utilization
CBs to Individual
Buyers                       12%       12%      3.75% Admin. Expenses
2.25% Margin for the use
of own Funds by CBs /a
6.00% Contribution to
Guarantee Fund
/a   Equivalent to a return of 9% on CBs own funds (para 4.22 (II)).
4.23      The features described above have been worked out with several
objectives e.g. instilling credit discipline, making cooperatives financially
viable, mobilizing private sector savings, increasing utilization rates of
STWs, promoting a rapid project implementation, ensuring participation of
small farmers and being consistent with other similar projects and programs.
However, given wide variations in agro-economic conditions within the project
areas and likely but unpredictable changes in macro-economic conditions during
the project implementation, the above features are not intended to be applied
inflexibly. It is proposed that the Project Coordination Committee (para.
5.19) would review them from time to time and revise, subject to concurrence
by IDA, as necessary. Separate Project Agreements detailing the proposed
credit facilities would be signed with the Sonali and Janata Banks. Receipt
by the IDA of duly signed Agreements would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness.
4.24      Strengthening Field Organizations of IRDP and the CBs.  In view of
the increased work load for IRDP staff in the project thanas, additional staff
would be posted both at the thana and District levels. Similarly, the commer-
cial banks would need to expand their field staff, particularly for lending to
the individual buyers where they would be solely responsible for appraising
and supervising the lending (para 5.13). The estimated incremental requirements
of vehicles and office equipment for the additional field staff and the proj-
ect staff at the headquarters are as follows:



- 28 -
No. Required               Unit Cost       Total
Item                Total    IRDP  CBs         cif Chittagong    Cost
(US$)       (US$ 000)
4-wheel Drive Jeeps         4        2     2              6,000           24
80 cc Motorcycles          70       50    20                750           52
Bicycles (for TCCAs)   1,000   1,000    -                   100          100
Typewriters                20       20    -                 250            5
Photo-copying Machines       1       1    -              10,000           10
Pocket calculators        100       50    50                100           10
Office Furniture &
Misc. Equipment         L.S.                                            50
Sub-total                                                           251
Handling & Overheads                                                      12
(5%)
Taxes and Duties /a                                                      101
Total                                                               364
Say US$360,000
/a    Average of 100% of cif cost of imported items except bicycles.
Inclusion in the project of the vehicles and equipment requirements of the
CBs is merely to facilitate the procurement of these imported items by the
CBs. Full cost, in local currency, of these items would be borne by the CBs.
Similarly, the full cost of bicycles for IRDP/TCCAs would be borne by the
TCCA (para 5.15).
4.25      To improve the information base for processing applications for STWs
and for general land use planning by the IRDP-KSSs, land registers would be
prepared for the KSSs indicating inter alia the land parcels owned by the
members together with their suitability for various crops. To improve credit
discipline and help recover the past overdue loans, as in the RD-I Project,
it has been stipulated that no loans would be advanced to previous defaulters
of institutional credit until all overdues are either repaid or rescheduled
in accordance with agreed terms. Accordingly, for IRDP-KSS members a conso-
lidated debt inventory would be compiled. The formats for the land registers
as well as the debt inventories have been worked out in connection with the
RD-I Project. A lumpsum allocation of Tk 2.0 M has been made for this pur-
pose under the project.
4.26      To check on the credit record of the individual buyers, on receipt
of the application for credit, the concerned commercial bank would ask the
Central Cooperative Bank, the Bangladesh Krishi Bank and the IRDP-TCCAs to
inform about any loans due to them by the prospective buyer. To avoid undue



- 29 -
delay by the institutional lenders in providing appropriate credit checks,
they would be required to respond within two months. In case no response is
received during this period, it would be assumed that the applicant is free of
any outstanding debts. Assurances have been obtained that GOB would issue
orders instructing BJSB, BKB and IRDP to provide the necessary credit informa-
tion within two months of the request by the CBs. Effectiveness of the above
procedure for obtaining prompt and accurate credit information would be
reviewed periodically by the District Executive Committees (para 5.18). Any
shortcomings would be brought to the notice of the Project Executive Committee
for appropriate remedial action.
C. Repair and Maintenance Facilities
4.27      Background.  Currently, a total of about 5,000 LLPs, 6,000 STWs
and 1,000 DTWs are in use for irrigation in the NW region. On a replacement
value basis, this equipment is worth approximately US$30 million. It provides
irrigation to about 250,000 ac and is responsible for incremental annual
foodgrain production of about 200,000 tons. With completion of the IDA-
supported NW Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD) and the GOB program for STWs in
the NW, the number of irrigation equipment would expand to 5,000 LLPs, 20,000
STWs and 4,000 DTWs; the replacement value would increase to US$75 million, the
irrigated area to 550,000 ac and the incremental annual foodgrain production to
450,000 tons. To derive full benefit from this investment, it is necessary
that adequate facilities be available for repair and maintenance of this
equipment.
4.28      The responsibility for providing the repair and maintenance services
lies with the Irrigation Directorate of BADC. The Directorate operates a net-
work of regional, zonal and thana workshops, and employs a field staff of over
1,000 for this purpose in the NW region. Because of the rapid expansion in
irrigation facilities in the past few years and a lack of attention given to
the repair and maintenance aspects, the present facilities are inadequate to
service the existing equipment, particularly because of the rapidly worsening
age profile of existing LLP equipment. 1/
4.29      The main problems with the existing repair and maintenance services
are as follows:
(a) due to inadequate financial allocations, and cumbersome
implementation procedures, the construction program for
thana, zonal and regional workshops has been seriously
delayed. Work on many of the workshops has not been
started at all while others are mostly lying incomplete.
Furthermore, some of the partially completed workshops have
been taken over by other Governmental agencies. According
to BADC plans, the NW region were to have one regional,
1/   It is estimated that about two-thirds of existing LLP equipment is more
than seven years old.



- 30 -
five zonal and about 100 thana workshops.  It is estimated
that under present plans by June 1977, only two zonal work-
shops and about 60 thana workshops would be available for
BADC operations;
(b) there is a lack of machinery and hand tools for the work-
shops and the field staff. In many cases, the type of
machinery procured earlier is unsuited to the requirements;
(c) there is a country-wide shortage of trained field staff
for the repair and maintenance work. The effectiveness
of the limited staff available is hampered by lack of
adequate transport;
(d) because of cumbersome procurement procedures and outdated
inventory control and distribution practices, spare parts
are generally not available in time;
(e) because of the three separate field organizations for
DTWs, STWs and LLPs, essentially having very similar
functions and servicing the same sort of equipment, there
is a wasteful deployment of existing field staff; and
(f) the responsibilities for the various workshops and
staff are poorly defined.
4.30      Until recently, in most areas, mechanized irrigation was in
an early stage of development, with small amounts of irrigation equipment
scattered over extensive and poorly accessible areas. Under those condi-
tions, the existence of a subsidized public sector organization was a
necessity for providing adequate repair and maintenance services. With
the rapid expansion of irrigation during the past few years as well as the
planned expansion for the next few years, the rationale for public sector
involvement is much less clear and it would appear that at least the routine
repair and maintenance tasks should be phased out to small private sector
workshops. So far private sector involvement in provision of these services
has been practically non-existent due to various factors such as (i) Govern-
ment ownerhsip of most of the irrigation equipment; (ii) heavy subsidies on
irrigation equipment, particularly on the repair and maintenance services;
and (iii) restrictions on import of workshop equipment and spare parts for
irrigation equipment by the private sector. GOB has been examining this
issue for the past some time and is considering several measures which could
significantly improve the climate for growth of private sector workshops.
However, no firm decisions have been made yet. In any case, given their vir-
tual non-existence at present, it would be several years before private sector
workshops could be expected to play a significant role in this regard. Until
then, the main responsibility must continue to be with BADC's Irrigation
Directorate.



- 31 -
4.31      Project support for the repair and maintenance component has been
worked out keeping in mind both the short and long run objectives. For the
short run, the project would improve the Irrigation Directorate's capacity for
the repair and maintenance services. For the long run, the project would help
in the development of small private workshops which, it is hoped, in due time,
would take over most of the repair and maintenance responsibilities. In view
of the prevailing uncertainties about the role of the private sector, special
efforts have been made to keep the proposed support as flexible as possible.
4.32      Project Proposals:  A comprehensive program for training workshop
personnel is already underway with assistance from UNDP/ILO. Also, IDA is
currently financing consultants under a technical assistance credit (Credit
622-BD), who are assisting BADC in preparing proposals for a thorough study
of the procedures for procurement and inventory control of spare parts for
irrigation equipment. Improvements proposed under the project are as follows:
(a)  integration of the field staff from the three divisions
-- LLP, STW and DTW divisions -- of the Irrigation Direc-
torate so that the staff in any geographical jurisdiction
would service all three types of irrigation facilities;
(b)  completion of the regional workshop at Bogra (total floor
space 30,000 sq ft, presently 50% complete); construction
of three zonal workshops at Thakurgaon, Rajshahi and Bogra
(total floor space 15,000 sq ft); and construction of
about 40 thana workshops and godowns (total floor space
100,000 sq ft). Present construction costs are estimated
to be Tk 125 per sq ft. Including 10% for engineering and
administration, and 15% for physical contingencies, the
total construction cost would be about Tk 20.6 M (US$1.37 M).
GOB has indicated that the BADC workshops presently under
the other GOB agencies would be handed over to BADC before
December 31, 1978;
(c)  incremental machinery, equipment and hand tool requirements
for the Bogra Regional Workshop, five zonal workshops and
about 100 thana workshops. Detailed equipment lists have
been prepared for the equipment to be provided at the three
levels of workshops. A lump sum provision has also been
made for import of machinery and handtools for sale to pri-
vate sector workshops. Total estimated cif cost of incre-
mental requirements is as follows:



- 32 -
Estimated Total Cost
Item                         No.          cif Chittagong
(US$'000)
Thana Workshops                  100           1,000
Zonal Workshops                    5             250
Regional Workshop                  1              80
Machinery and Handtools
for sale to Private
Sector Workshops              L.S.             500
Sub-total                                 1,830
Handling & Overhead (5%)                          92
Taxes and Duties /a                               549
Total                                 2,471
Say US$2.47 M
/a   Average of 30% of cif cost.
(d) transport requirements for the various field staff.
Total requirements together with their estimated cif
cost are as follows:
Estimated Unit Cost
Item                       No.      cif Chittagong         Total Cost
(US$)             (US$'000)
Station Wagons (Diesel)                3           9,000                   27
Jeeps (Diesel) 4x4                    22           6,000                  132
1,000 cc Pick-ups                     31           3,600                  112
80 cc Motorcycles                    167             750                  125
Bicycles                           2,040             100                  204
3 Ton Trucks (Diesel)                 16           7,000                  112
Sub-total                                                            712
20% spares (except for bicycles)                                          102
Handling & Overheads (5%)                                                  41
Taxes and Duties /a                                                       813
Total                                                          1,668
Say US$1.67 M
/a   Average of 133% of cif cost except for bicycles.



- 33 -
(e)  in view of the urgency of improving the repair and main-
tenace facilities and the apparent weakness of BADC in
implementing such programs, the project would provide
two man-years of consulting services for helping BADC
in reorganization of its field staff in the NW and in
initial implementation of the program. The consultant
would be well versed in the establishment, operation and
management of a network of small workshops in a develop-
ing country. Preferably, he would be familiar with the
Russian-made workshop equipment. His main responsi-
bilities would be to:
(i)  check existing layouts of completed workshops
and rearrange, if necessary, to get them into
operation, as quickly as possible;
(ii)  review the sites and layouts for the proposed regional
and zonal workshops by actual visits to the sites where
such facilities are to be provided;
(iii) prepare a detailed work program for completion/
construction of various workshops, procurement and
installation of workshop equipment, recruitment of
additional field staff, and procurement and distri-
bution of staff vehicles;
(iv)  draw up list of responsibilities for workshops at
thana, zonal and regional levels;
(v)  review the responsibilities of staff at various levels
and suggest changes required to increase the efficiency
of the system;
(vi)  advise on keeping of stores and inventories and
draw up procedures for indenting, issuing and
balancing stocks;
(vii) draw up practical check lists for the maintenance
mechanics and advise them in their work through
practical demonstration;
(viii) draw up formats and procedures for reporting at thana,
zonal and regional levels; and
(ix)  review incentive structure for the field staff and
recommend changes for improving staff performance.



- 34 -
4.33      Assurances have been obtained that BADC would: (i) consolidate the
field organization of its Irrigation Directorate in the NW region by June 30,
1978; (ii) assign responsibilities to regional, zonal and thana workshops
in the NW region which are satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) employ a workshop
management expert for at least two years to help in initial implementation of
the repair and maintenance improvement program in the NW region. To ease the
establishment and growth of private sector workshops, assurances have been
also obtained that BADC would: (a) sell to qualified private sector mechanics
in the NW region, spare parts for the irrigation equipment on a "cost plus
handling" basis; and (b) charge users of its repair and maintenance facilities
charges adequate to cover full cost of the spare parts and at least 50% of the
cost of service facilities. Employment of the workshop management expert with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to IDA would be a condition for
disbursements from IDA credit for workshop related expenditures (Items I(c)
and II in the proposed credit allocation, para (4.48)).
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation
4.34      Monitoring of project implementation would be through monthly
progress reports by the concerned staff of the various implementing agencies
(para 5.10). Executive Committees, to be established for the project at
various levels (para 5.16), would compile the individual reports, review
achievements in relation to targets, and recommend appropriate actions for
future improvements. To avoid unduly burdening the field staff, monitor-
ing would be concentrated on data of key importance to the project progress.
Main items to be monitored vis-a-vis the shallow tubewells program would in-
clude: number of applications received from various buyers; number approved
for installation; number installed, number commissioned, number operating;
number of tubewell breakdowns disaggregated by duration of breakdowns; stocks
in hand of tubewell components and spares; sales of spares; areas irrigated
and crop acreages; number and amounts of loans extended; recoveries on pre-
vious loans, and number and amounts of overdue loans.  Items to be monitored
for the repair and maintenance component would include progress in construc-
tion of workshops, procurement of equipment and vehicles, commissioning of
workshops, and posting of field staff. Each agency would prepare detailed
formats for reporting on the project by its staff at the various levels.
After review by the Project Executive Committee, these would be issued to
the field staff as an official order. The progress report from the District
Executive Committees together with the project level financial data would
form the basis for quarterly and annual reports by the Project Executive
Committee to IDA. Assurances have been obtained that GOB would promptly
send to IDA quarterly and annual reports on the project progress.
4.35      In addition to monitoring the project progress as stated above, the
project would also emphasize compiling and analyzing the data on groundwater
potential of the region in order to improve siting of tubewells under this
project or other similar projects in the future. Bore-logs would be prepared
by BADC at the time of tubewell installation. The BADC would also monitor



- 35 -
the static water tables as well as the water yield from the tubewells. These
data would be used to up-date the Thana Irrigation Maps.
4.36      The objectives of the evaluation would be to estimate the direct
and indirect benefits derived from the tubewells and the socio-economic
characteristics of the beneficiaries. Particular attention would be paid to
differences, if any, between the three sales arrangements proposed for the
project. If necessary, attention would also be paid to determining reasons
for underutilization of tubewells. The data for the evaluation would be
obtained through a few selected in-depth interviews as well as through can-
vassing a random sample of STW (project as well non-project) owners. A lump-
sum provision of Tk 2 M has been made for hiring a local consulting firm
for undertaking the evaluation work and for financing procurement, if nec-
essary, of simple flow measuring devices for monitoring tubewell yields.
Assurances have been obtained that by March 31, 1978, BADC would hire a well
qualified local consulting firm or research institution for undertaking the
evaluation work for the project.
Implementation Schedule
4.37      Project implementation would take four years.  Preparation of the
Thana Irrigation Maps is already underway and would be completed by September
1977. The IRDP coverage to 15 additional thanas in the NW region would also
be extended by June 1977. Assurances have been obtained that preparation of
KSS land registers and debt inventories for the KSS members would start in
Nay 1977 and for the currently existing 3,000 KSSs would be completed by
March 31, 1978. For the newly formed societies, the land registers and/or
debt inventories would be completed before they would be registered. Follow-
ing initial preparation, the land registers and debt inventories would-be
revised as necessary to keep them up to date. GOB has agreed to the above
implementation schedule for preparation of KSS land registers and debt in-
ventories.
4.38      Procurement of vehicles, and office equipment for IRDP and CBs
would be completed during the first year of the project. Detailed designs
and layouts for the various workshops have already been completed and con-
struction would be phased over three years: 1977/78 - 1979/80. Procurement
of tools and machinery for the workshops and vehicles for BADC would be
phased with the workshop construction program.
4.39 -    Tender documents for procurement of materials and equipment for
shallow tubewells are under preparation and tender would be issued for deliv-
eries in four batches - first batch of 1,000 wells by December 1977, and
3,000 each by September of the following three years (1978-80). The procure-
ment schedule is tentative and would be revised, if necessary, following
periodic reviews of the demand for STWs in the project areas. BADC has already
submitted draft tender documents for review by IDA. Tubewell installation
would be spread over four seasons: 1977/78 - 1980/81. To ensure maximum
production benefits installation would be concentrated during mid-December to
mid-February so that the tubewells would be ready for irrigating a boro/wheat
crop the same season.



- 36 -
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
4.40      Total project costs are estimated at US$25.4 M equivalent and
include about US$4.6 M in import taxes and duties. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$14.6 M or about 57% of the total project cost.
Cost estimates are based on unit prices at March 1977 levels. The major
elements in the cost estimates are equipment, materials and incidentals for
STWs (US$12.33 M), standby pump sets and spare parts for STWs (US$2.05 M),
vehicles and office equipment for IRDP and CBs (US$0.36 M), civil works for
completion of workshop facilities (US$1.19 M), machinery and hand tools for
workshops (US$2.47 M), vehicles for BADC (US$1.67 M), and technical assistance
(US$0.73 M), totalling to a base project cost of US$20.80 M. Physical
contingencies of about US$0.85 and price contingencies 1/ of US$3.75 M bring
the total project cost to US$25.4 M. Estimated project costs are summarized
below:
1/   Calculated assuming the following annual inflation rates:
Item                         Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1977-79       1980
Equipment, Vehicles
and Materials                         7.5            7
Civil Works and Others                   9            8



- 37 -
% of
Total
Item                 Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
----(Tk million)-----       ---------(US$ million)-------
Equipment, Materials
and Incidentals
for STWs                 75.0   110.0   185.0        5.00    7.33   12.33    49
Standby Pump sets
and spare parts
for STWs                  12.6    18.1    30.7        0.84    1.21    2.05      8
Vehicles and office
equipment for IRDP
and CBs                    2.1     3.3      5.4      0.14    0.22    0.36        1
Civil Works for
Workshop Facilities       13.4     4.5    17.9        0.89    0.30    1.19       5
Machinery and
Hand tools for
Workshops                  9.6    27.4    37.0        0.64    1.83    2.47    10
Vehicles for BADC         12.8    12.2    25.0        0.85    0.82    1.67      6
Technical /b
Assistance                 7.0     4.0    11.0        0.47    0.26    0.73       3
Base Cost          132.5   179.5   312.0        8.83   11.97   20.80    82
Physical
Contingencies            6.0       6.7    12.7        0.40    0.45    0.85       3
Price Contin-
gencies                  23.5    32.8    56.3         1.57    2.18    3.75    15
Total Project
Cost               162.0   219.0   381.0       10.80   14.60   25.40  100
/a   Figures in US dollars derived from the corresponding figures in takas.
Small discrepancies are due to rounding.
lb   Includes Tk 3.0 M for preparation of Thana Irrigation Maps and for addi-
tional groundwater surveys; Tk 1.0 M for assistance in developing project
accounts (para 4.50); Tk 2 M for preparation of land registers and debt
inventories for IRDF-KSSs; Tk 3 M for two man-years of expatriate
technical assistance for workshop improvement; and Tk 2 M for monitoring
and evaluation of the project.



- 38 -
4.41      The estimated schedule of expenditure for the various project
components is as follows:
Total   Expenditure in Fiscal Year
Item                        Cost    77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81
-----Ö(Tk Million)-------
(a)  Materials, Equipment and
Incidentals for STWs
Base Cost                          185.0   18.5   55.5   55.5    55.5
Physical Contingencies              10.0    1.0    3.0    3.0       3.0
Price Contingencies                 36.5    1.0    7.0   11.9    16.6
Subtotal                      231.5   20.5   65.5   70.4    75.1
(b)  Standby Pump sets and
Spares for STWs
Base Cost                           30.7    3.7    9.0    9.0       9.0
Price Contingencies                  5.7    0.2    1.0    1.8       2.7
Subtotal                       36.4    3.9   10.0   10.8    11.7
(c)  Vehicles and Office
Equipment for IRDP
and CBs
Base Cost                            5.4    5.4      -       -      -
Price Contingencies                  0.4    0.4     -               -
Subtotal                        5.8    5.8      -      -       -
(d)  Civil Works for Workshop
Facilities
Base Cost                          17.9      7.0   7.0      3.9     -
Physical Contingencies              2.7      1.0   1.1      0.6     -
Price Contingencies                 3.4      0.6   1.5      1.3     -
Subtotal                      24.0     8.6   9.6      5.8      -
(e)  Machinery and Hand tools
for Workshops
Base Cost                          37.0    12.0   10.0   10.0       5.0
Price Contingencies                 5.3      0.6    1.2    2.0      1.5
Subtotal                      42.3    12.6   11.2   12.0       6.5
(f)  Vehicles for BADC
Base Cost                          25.0      8.0    8.0    9.0      -
Price Contingencies                 3.2     0.4    1.0    1.8       -
Subtotal                     28.2      8.4    9.0   10.8       -
(g)  Technical Assistance
Base Cost                          11.0      4.0    3.0    2.0    2.0
Price Contingencies                 1.8     0.3    0.5    0.4    0.6
Subtotal                      12.8     4.3    3.5    2.4    2.6
Total                        381.0    64.1  108.8  112.2    95.9



- 39 -
Financing
4.42      The proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 M would finance the full foreign
exchange costs and some local costs or about 77% of the total project cost
net of taxes and duties. Financing for the remaining US$9.4 M would come
from the following:
Contributor                         Amount
(US$ M)
(a) Buyers of STWs
Payments for cash purchase of                    1.3
1,000 STWs
Down payments for purchase on
credit of 9,000 STWs                           1.6
Installment payments on credit
purchase of 9,000 STWs /a                      1.9
Payments for purchase of STW
spare parts and rental of
standby pump sets /a                           0.5
Sub-total                              5.3
(b) Janata & Sonali Banks
Loans from own resources for credit
sales of 9,000 STWs                            3.1
Payments for purchase of vehicles
& office equipment                             0.1
Recoveries from borrowers /a                    (0.6)
Sub-total                              2.6
(c) IRDP-TCCAs
Payments for purchase of vehicles                0.1
& office equipment
(d) Private Sector Workshops
Payments for purchase of machinery               0.4
and hand tools /a
(e)  GOB lb                                           1.0
Total                                   9.4
/a   During project implementation.  Further installment payments of US$8.3 M
(of which about US$2.6 to CBs) would be received after project implementa-
tion in June 1981. Similarly US$1.9 M from sale of spare parts and rental
of standby pump sets and US$0.4 M from sale of machinery and hand tools to
private workshop would be received after project implementation.
/b   GOB would also be responsible for making up shortfalls, if any.



- 40 -
4.43      Project Revolving Fund.  To ensure availability of funds for prompt
payments of local expenditure for all goods and services required for the
project, assurances have been obtained that the Government would establish
a project revolving fund with an initial contribution of Tk 4.5 M (US$0.3 M).
The fund would be replenished by the following:
(a) IDA reimbursements against project expenditures;
(b) BADC receipts from cash sales of STWs and spare parts
and rental of standby pump sets;
(c) receipts from IRDP-TCCAs and CBs for purchase of vehicles
and office equipment for their staff;
(d) contributions by CBs for financing their share of the
credit facilities to the STW buyers; and
(e) downpayments and installment payments (net of repayments
to CBs) by farmers for tubewells purchased on credit.
The fund would be administered by the Project Executive Committee (para 5.18).
The Committee would make, on a monthly basis, projections of receipts and
expenditures for the following three months. Since in the early phases of
the project implementation, the replenishments to the fund would lag behind
the project expenditures, assurances have also been obtained that the Govern-
ment would provide temporary advances, as necessary, to the revolving fund to
maintain balances adequate to cover projected expenditures for the following
three months. Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that the GOB has
approved a consolidated Project Proforma (PP) 1/ for the project and that it
has established the revolving fund and made an initial contribution of Tk 4.5 M.
Procurement
4.44      Equipment, vehicles and materials (other than those for construction
of workshops) with an estimated cif cost of about US$11.3 M (net of contingencies)
would be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported
goods or the custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Except possibly for centrifugal
pumps, bicycles and some office equipment, it is expected that the above
procurement would be from external suppliers. Off the-shelf items costing
less than US$10,000 each would be purchasedthrough normal Government procure-
ment procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Such purchases would, however,
be limited to US$200,000 in total.
1/   The PP is a project report prepared for the Planning Commission by the
implementing agencies. Approval of the PP by the National Economic
Council is required before funds for the project can be released.



- 41 -
4.45      Because installation of the tubewells (US$1.3 M net of contingen-
cies) and most of the civil works (US$1.2 M net of contingencies) would be
simple, individually very small, labor-intensive, scattered over a wide area
and restricted to seasonal construction, they would be unsuitable for inter-
national competitive bidding and hence would be carried out on the basis of
local competitive bidding under Government procedures satisfactory to IDA.
4.46    Hiring of expatriate consultants for assistance in implementation of
the repair and maintenance component would be in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. Hiring of consultants for preparing Thana Irrigation Maps, for
assistance in developing project accounts, and for project evaluation would
be through local competitive bidding under Government procedures satisfactory
to IDA. Preparation of KSS land registers and maps would be through small
unit costs contracts to local land surveyors (amins).
Disbursements
4.47      Disbursements from the credit acccount would be made for: (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures or 100% of local expenditures ex-factory or 60% of
other local expenditures for equipment, vehicles and materials (other than
those for civil works); (b) 70% of the cost of civil works including materials;
and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditure for consult-
ing services and technical assistance. Applications for withdrawals from the
credit would be fully documented except that disbursements for individual
local expenditures costing less than US$1,000 under category Cc) would be made
against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be
submitted but would be available for review during the course of project
supervision and for auditing of the project accounts (para 4.50). Upon
completion of the project, any surplus in the credit account will be used, at
the discretion of IDA, for project related expenditures.



- 42 -
Proposed Credit Allocation and Schedule of Disbursements
4.48      The proposed allocation for the proceeds of the credit is as
follows:
Amount Allocated   % of Expenditure
Category                                      (US$ million)      to be financed
I. Equipment, Vehicles and Materials
(other than those under category (b))
(a)  Equipment, materials                     9.0          100% of foreign
and spares for STWs                                   expenditures for
directly imported
goods
(b)  Equipment and vehicles                   0.2          100% of ex-factory
for IRDF and CBs                                      cost of locally
manufactured goods
(c)  Workshop equipment and                   2.8          60% of local ex-
vehicles for BADC                                     penditures for
other locally
procured goods
II. Civil works and Materials for                  0.8          70% of all
Construction of Workshops                                  expenditures
III. Consulting Services and Technical
Assistance                                     0.4          100% of foreign
expenditures and
70% of local
expenditures
IV. Unallocated                                    2.8
Total                            16.0
4.49       It is expected that the disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1981, approximately six months after the end of project
implementation. The estimated semi-annual schedule of disbursement is
as follows:
IDA Fiscal Year         1977/78   1978/79   1979/80    1980/81        1981/82
and Semester          1st  2nd  1st  2nd  1st  2nd   1st   2nd l1st
Accumulated
Disbursements
(US$ million)          0.3  1.5  3.0  5.0  7.5 10.0  12.5  15.0   16.0



- 43 -
Accounts and Audit
4.50      To assist the Project Executive Committee in administering the
project revolving fund (para 4.43) and to help the various implementing
agencies (para 5.01), particularly BADC, in developing suitable project
accounts, assurances have been obtained that GOB would contract the services
of a qualified local firm of chartered accountants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. Assurances have also been obtained from GOB that:
(a)   All implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts
for the project at thana, District and project levels.
(b)   Auditors acceptable to IDA would audit project level
accounts annually and the audited accounts, together
with the auditor's comments, would be sent to IDA -
within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
(c)   Auditing of the credit accounts for STWs would continue
until all loans provided to farmers during the project
implementation period are repaid.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Implementing Agencies
5.01       Project implementation would principally involve three agencies:
-- BADC for procurement, installation and after sales service
of the project-financed STWs. It would also be responsible
for strengthening the repair and maintenance services for all
irrigation equipment in the NW:
-- IRDP for organizing farmers' cooperatives for credit sales
of STWs to groups, and for administering and supervising the
credit facilities to the TCCA-KSSs; and
- CBs (The Sonali and Janata Banks) for providing credit
facilities to individual as well as group buyers. They
would have the sole responsibility for administering and
supervising the lending to individuals and would help
IRDP in this regard for the groups.
In addition, the Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives (Min LG&RD) would in supervise construction/
completion of thana workshops, assist in verification of credit records for the
borrowers under the project and provide project coordination through the local
government administration in the field.



- 46 -
5.02      BADC, a semi-autonomous organization under the Ministry of Agri-
culture, is the single most important organization in Bangladesh for supply-
ing inputs and services to the agricultural sector. It is responsible for
procurement of virtually all agricultural inputs, machinery and equipment
and for distribution of seeds (except for jute), fertilizers, diesel and some
pesticides. It also manages seed multiplication farms, deploys and maintains
low-lift pumps, tractors and power tillers; and sinks and maintains shallow
and deep tubewells. The corporation with some 16,000 employees and a total
annual budget in excess of US$100 M, is one of the largest organizations
in Bangladesh. Most of the BADC's operations so far have been of promotional
nature and hence dependent upon heavy subsidies by the Government. In turn,
this dependence has meant that although nominally the corporation enjoys sub-
stantial autonomy in its staffing, finances and operating policies, in
practice, it has functioned basically like a regular Government department.
5.03      For administrative purposes, BADC is organized into four Direc-
torates, each headed by a Director. The Irrigation Directorate, one of the
four, is responsible for deployment and maintenance of LLPs, for supervising
the installation of DTWs and STWs, and for subsequent maintenance. Three
Divisions each headed by a Chief Engineer are responsible for the LLP, DTW
and STW programs of BADC. Each of the three Divisions has a full comple-
ment of the field staff generally down to the thana level or sometimes even
at sub-thana level. The Directorate emloys a total technical staff of about
5,000.
5.04      Over the last few years, the activities of BADC have expanded
rapidly. For example, during the past decade, the number of LLPs fielded
by BADC has increased more than ten times and the quantity of fertil-
izer distributed by BADC has more than quadrupled. In addition, BADC has
gotten involved in activities for which it is not particularly well equipped
(e.g. agricultural credit through its "hire-purchase" scheme for STWs;
para 4.06). Due to these as well as the disruptions caused by the civil
disturbances during the early 1970s, there has been some deterioration in
the management of the various BADC programs. The deterioration has, in turn,
affected implementation of two IDA financed projects--the NW Tubewells Project
(Credit 341-BD) and the Cereal Seeds Project (Credit 410-BD)--for which BADC
is the main implementing agencies. Both projects have experienced substantial
implementation delays as well as cost overruns. Following intensive super-
vision and monitoring by IDA and GOB during the past year, both projects
are proceeding satisfactorily now. To prevent similar problems to the pro-
posed Shallow Tubewells Project, during appraisal of the project, BADC's
existing STWs Program was thoroughly reviewed and institutional changes in-
corporated, as necessary (paras 4.05-4.08). Also, IDA is currently financ-
ing consultants under a technical assistance credit (Credit 622-BD) to assist
BADC in preparing terms of reference for further studies necessary for improv-
ing BADC's management and operations.
5.05    IRDP is an agency under the direct administrative control and super-
vision of the Min. LG&RD, for developing stable, self-reliant and disciplined
cooperatives in rural areas. The IRDP approach is fashioned after the two-
tiered cooperative system developed at the Comilla Academy during the 1960s.



- 45 -
At the village level, farmers (typically 30 to 100) are encouraged to join
together to form Village Agricultural Cooperative Societies (KSSs) 1/. In
turn, the KSSs within a thana (100 to 150) are federated into a Thana Central
Cooperative Association (TCCA). The TCCAs organize supply of technical
services (land use planning, training and extension), farm inputs and ma-
chinery, and production-linked supervised credit for the member KSSs. The
two-tiered approach enables retaining the village as the natural unit of
developoment while still exploiting economies of scale inherent in organiz-
ing and supervising the supply of inputs and services at the thana level.
The IRDP, started in 1970, presently covers about 160 thanas and plans are
to extend its operations to another 50 thanas during 1977.
5.06      The IRDP is headed by a Director-General, who is assisted by five
Directors, each looking after one of the five divisions, namely: Admini-
stration, Planning and Inspection; Training and Extension; Finance, Accounts
and Audit; Cooperatives, Credit and Marketing; and Statistics, Research,
Evaluation and Construction. In each District, there is a Project Director
assisted by a Deputy Project Director. In each thana, there is a Thana
Project Officer, assisted by a Deputy Project Officer and an Accountant.
Village Accountants and Inspectors for maintenance and supervision of KSS
finances are employed by TCCAs. According to existing regulations, there is
one Village Accountant for every six KSS, one Assistant Inspector for every
12 KSS, and one Inspector for every five Assistant Inspectors. The TCCAs and
KSSs are largely autonomous organizations, governed by the elected managing
committees. Major responsibilities of the IRDP staff is to guide TCCAs in
rules and regulations of IRDP, advise them in technical matters, supervise
their financial affairs and assist them in bookkeeping and coordination of
various programs and services.
5.07      Funds for IRDP operations are provided by GOB as grants through
annual budgetary appropriations. The accounts are required to be maintained
in a manner prescribed by GOB and are subject to audit by the Auditor General
of Bangladesh. It is envisaged that once fully established, TCCAs would
cover their operating expenses from commissions and service charges earned
in providing various services to the members. For the interim (typically
for five years after establishment), TCCAs are being partially supported by
a-'r al grants of Tk 100,000 each from IRDP. The TCCA and KSS accounts are
kept in a manner prescribed by IRDP and are annually audited by IRDP staff.
5.08      Compared to most other agencies and departments involved in rural
development in Bangladesh, IRDP is a relatively strong organization with
better than average field staff, a well conceived work program, and good
leadership. IRDP is the main implementing agency for the IDA-financed RD-I
Project. A substantial amount of technical assistance for improving IRDP's
field operations is being provided under that project. Further assistance
is likely under future rural development projects proposed for IDA financing.
1/   Krishi Sambaya Samities.



- 46 -
5.09      CBs.  The Sonali and Janata Banks are the two largest commercial
banks in Bangladesh having respectively 435 and 348 branches, well dispersed
over the whole country. The financial position of the two banks at the end
of 1974 and 1975 was as follows:
Sonali Bank             Janata Bank
Increase                   Increase
1974   1975    (%)       1974      1975     M
Total Deposits (Tk B)         2.24   3.33    49        2.58      2.92   13
Total Advances (Tk B)         1.68   2.15    28        2.09      2.56   23
Pre-Tax Profits (Tk M)       31.18  80.93   160       44.84    94.32  110
Paid-up Capital (Tk M)       30.00  30.00    -        30.00    30.00   -
Reserve Fund (Tk M)           8.75  33.88   287       25.00    45.00   80
Total number of Employees
('000)                     6.29   6.99    11         4.55      4.79    5
Both banks are financially sound and adequately staffed with personnel trained
and experienced in the commercial banking business.
5.10      The Sonali Bank has been a pioneer in providing production credit
to the agricultural sector through the IRDP cooperatives. Compared to the
BJSB which provides credit to the traditional Cooperative Societies, the
Sonali Bank has had much better success in recovering loans from the bor-
rowers. From 1973, when it began its rural credit operation, until January
1977, the Sonali Bank advanced a total of about Tk 109 M of which Tk 69 M
or 63% has been repaid; Tk 21 M or 20% was not yet due and only Tk 19 M or
17% was in default. Less than 2% of the amount advanced was in default for
more than one year.
5.11      Involvement of the Janata Bank in agricultural credit has been more
modest. It has lent directly to farmers for production of cash crops such as
potatoes, tobacco and sunflower seeds. On an experimental basis, it has also
lent for installation of a few shallow tubewells in the Noakhali and Comilla
Districts. The Janata Bank's recovery performance also has been extremely
good. Through its experimental lendings to the agricultural sector, it has
already developed a nucleus of well trained staff for further expansion of
its operations.
Agency Responsibilities
5.12      Shallow Tubewells.  Responsibilities of the three implementing
agencies would be as follows:
(a) Responsibilities of BADC:
(i) prepare Thana Irrigation Maps showing areas suitable
for STW development;
(ii)  tender for and select qualified local contractors
for installation of STWs in various thanas;



- A7 -
(iii)  procure equipment and components for STWs and have
them ready for delivery to contractors at D)istrict
headquarters;
(iv)  prepare schedule of rates for components and
installation to be charged to the buyers;
(v) execute cash sales directly to the farmers;
(vi)  schedule and supervise the installation by the
contractors for various buyers (cash buyers as
well as those approved by IRDP and CBs) and
hand over the wells on a turn-key basis;
(vii)  instruct buyers in operation and routine maintenance
of pump sets;
(viii) prepare records of wells' technical data fior log
books and for thana registers;
(ix)  prepare monthly reports for monitoring progress in
installation and of stocks at hand in various
locations;
(x) establish suitable workshops, maintenance organization
and inventory of spares for repairs and maintenance;
(xi)  establish adequate diesel and oil storage and distri-
bution network to supply project needs;
(xii)  prepare thana-wise monthly reports for monitoring the
working of STWs installed under the project as well as
the inventories of various spares at hand;
(xiii) promptly follow-up on any complaints by IRDP or CBs
regarding inadequate maintenance;
(xiv)  maintain separate records for project expenditures
and receipts;
(xv)  prepare and submit by July 31 each year a compre-
hensive report indicating the operations of the
previous year, analyzing shortfalls if any, inter-
preting the new technical data obtained, updating
the thana maps and recommending any changes in
working procedures for the next year; and
(xvi)  in coordination with IRDP and CBs, prepare guidelines
giving detailed working procedures for the BADC field
staff and issue the guidelines as official orders.



- 48 -
(b) Responsibilities of IRDP/TCCA
(i) prepare KSS Land Registers and debt inventories;
(ii)  settle or reschedule old debts for KSS members, in
accordance with guidelines agreed for the IDA-financed
RD-I project;
(iii) promote and help form STW groups in areas suitable
for STW development;
(iv)  process the applications and arrange loans for TCCAs
from CBs;
(v) pay CBs the downpayment collected from the group and
after installation certify for CBs handing over of the
wells by BADC to the groups;
(vi)  supervise the groups to ensure maximum feasible utilization
of the tubewells;
(vii) point out to BADC any problems with maintenance facilities
and supply of diesel and spares;
(viii) assist groups in keeping log books and accounts for STWs
and prepare thana-wise monthly reports on progress in
installation and utilization of installed wells;
(ix)  recover the installments promptly for payment to CBs;
(x)  keep separate accounts for wells installed under the
project;
(xi)  by July 31 of each year, submit comprehensive annual
reports analyzing the operations of the previous year and
suggesting improvements for the future; and
(xii) in coordination with the BADC and CBs, prepare guide
lines giving detailed working procedures for the IRDP
field staff and issue them as official orders.
(c) Responsibilities of CBs
For Loans to IRDP Groups
(i) together with IRDP, establish guidelines on past credit
records of TCCAs, KSSs and individual members for eligi-
bility of Bank loans for STWs;
(ii)  verify on a random sampling basis the information provided
in the applications submitted by TCCAs. If satisfactory,



- 49 -
provide necessary instructions to BADC for installation of
the STWs;
(iii)  on receipt of certification for installation from IRDP staff,
deposit downpayments by the groups as well as own contribu-
tions to lending (30% of the cost) to the Project Revolving
Fund. Also indicate the semi-annual installment together
with the due dates to the buyers and TCCAs;
(iv)  maintain separate accounts for each well financed
through the TCCA; and
(v)  assist the IRDP/TCCA staff in supervising the well groups
and in recovery of installments. The installments
should be directly deposited to the CBs.
For Loans to Individual Buyers
(vi)  advertise for applications from individuals seeking
credit for STWs;
(vii)  check on the credit worthiness of the buyer and
appraise the financial viability of the proposed
scheme;
(viii)  if a check is satisfactory, instruct BADC to install the
the tubewell and certify to BADC handing over of the
well to the buyer;
(ix)  following installation of the tubewell, deposit down-
payment by the buyers together with own contribution
(20% of the well cost) to the Project Revolving Fund;
(x) provide field supervision and collect installments
when due; and
(xi)  keep separate accounts for each individual buyer.
For All Loans
(xii)  keep liaison with BADC on progress of installation
and also bring to their notice any problems with
maintenance facilities and supply of diesel and
spares; and
(xiii) prepare monthly and annual reports on credit
operations for the project.
5.13      Construction of Workshops.  For regional and zonal workshops,
BADC would be responsible for finalization of designs, preparation of tender
documents, award of contracts, and for supervision of the construction work.



- 50 -
Designs for thana workshops and godowns are already finalized. Responsibil-
ity for preparation of their tender documents would be with the Thana Overseer
(RWP) from the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
(Min LG & RD). Awards of contracts and supervision of construction of the
thana workshops have been the responsibility of the respective Thana Executive
Committees. Assurances have been obtained that the locations, floor plans and
designs for the regional and zonal workshops would be acceptable to IDA.
5.14      Procurement of Equipment and Vehicles.  Preparation of tender
documents for and procurement of workshop equipment would be the respons-
ibility of BADC. Vehicles and equipment common to more than one agency
would be procured jointly through the Project Executive Committee while the
other vehicles and equipment would be procured by the respective agencies.
Additional Staff
5.15      The following staff would be deployed for implementing the project.
Unless covered by other GOB projects, their salaries, allowances and travel
expenses would be included in the PP.
(a)  BADC -- A Project Manager in the rank of a Chief Engineer
would be posted in the NW region to head the integrated
field organization of the Irrigation Directorate in the NW
region. When fully staffed in 1981, the organization is
expected to include two superintendent engineers, 10 execu-
tive engineers, 45 assistant engineers, 170 unit officers,
600 mechanics, 1,900 assistant mechanics, 250 store keepers,
and 110 ancillary trade mechanics (welders, filters, machine
operators etc.). The organization would be adequate to pro-
vide repair and maintenance services for a total of about
30,000 LLPs, DTWs and STWs. The salaries, allowances and
travel expenses for the whole organization would cost about
Tk 20 M per annum. Taking into consideration BADC's existing
staff in the NW region, the additional staff requirements are
estimated at about 15 assistant engineers, 110 mechanics,
1,700 assistant mechanics, 250 store keepers and 110 ancillary
trade mechanics.
(b) IRDP -- One Joint Director (Cooperative and Credit), two
Deputy Directors, and two Assistant Directors (one Deputy
Director and one Assistant Director each for liasing with
the Sonali and the Janata Banks, respectively) and adequate
supporting staff would be provided at IRDP headquarters to
assist the Director (Cooperatives and Credit) in supervising
the project-related activities. In addition, if not already
posted, a District Project Director and a Deputy Project
Director in each of the five Districts and a Thana Project
Officer and a Deputy Thana Project Officer in each of the
IRDP thanas in the NW would be deployed at the field level.
Since much of the District and Thana level staff proposed
above has been already approved under IRDP's national program,



- 51 -
the incremental staff costs for IRDP are expected to be about
Tk 2 M per annum only. As new KSSs are organized, the number
of TCCA Inspectors, Assistant Inspectors and Village Accountants
would be increased according to the existing TCCA regulations
(para 5.06). The salaries and other expenses for the
employment of these officers would be met from the TCCA's
increased incomes from the rural credit.
(c) CBs -- Both the Sonali and the Janata banks would appoint a
Project Manager for the overall supervision of their respective
lending programs under the project. The Project Managers would
be posted at headquarters but would make frequent visits to the
field. At the field level, both banks would assign loan officers
to their field branches to undertake the appraisal and supervision
work on behalf of the banks. The loan officers would generally be
graduates in agriculture or economics and it is expected that each
loan officer would handle about 100 individual accounts plus 200
group accounts. The salaries and other expenses for this staff
would be met by the CBs from the income CBs would received for
administering the credit facilities for the project (para 4.22).
Assurances have been obtained that the Government would assign an adequate number
of additional staff to the various implementing agencies as proposed above.
Project Coordination
5.16      Successful project implementation would require close cooperation
and coordination between the staffs of BADC, IRDP and the commercial banks,
at all levels.  The organizational structure to achieve this has been
modeled after the one used in RD-I project which according to experience
so far, has been highly successful.
5.17      The project would have three levels of Executive Committees --
at thana, District and the project levels, respectively. Membership com-
position of the Executive Commitees would be as follows:



- 52 -
Executive Committee
Project            District              Thana
Chairman               Member Director       Deputy Commi-      Sub-Divisional
Irrigation, BADC      ssioner /a          Officer /b
Member                 Project Manager,      Executive          Thana Irrigation
Secretary              BADC                  Engineer, BADC    Officer, BADC
Member                 Joint Director        District Proj.    Thana Project
(Coop. and Credit)   Director           Officer
IRDP
Member                 Project Managers      District Manag.   Branch Manager
Sonali and Janata    Sonali/Janata       Sonali/Janata
Banks                 Bank               Bank
Member                 Deputy Registrar      Asst. Registrar   Thana Coop.
Dept. of Coopera-    Cooperatives        Officer
tives
Member                 Deputy Secretary /c  Asst. Director /c Thana Overseer /c
(Rural Dev.)         Rural Dev.          (RWP)
District
Engineer
/a   At his discretion, he may delegate this to the Additional Deputy
Commissioner (Development)
/b   At his discretion, he may delegate this to the Circle Officer
(Development).
/c   To attend only for issues related to the construction and maintenance
of thana workshops for BADC.
5.18      Functions of the committees would be as follows:
The Thana Executive Committees
(a)  The Committee Chairman would have the overall responsibility
of executing the project in the thana, and presiding over
the committee meetings. The committee would have regular
meetings once a month.
(b)  The members of the committee will receive orders and
instructions concerning project implementation from their
respective departments and agencies. Each member (and
his supporting staff) would execute his share of project works
and coordinate with other members as necessary. He would pre-
sent to the chairman a monthly progress report of data re-
quired for project monitoring and where appropriate a summary
monthly project account. He would submit detailed project



- 53 -
accounts with related papers (invoices, receipts, etc.) to
his department headquarters through the normal channels, and
a copy of the account to the Committee Chairman.
(c) The committee secretary would assist the chairman in coor-
dinating the day to day work between members, finalizing
requests and applications and compiling monthly thana pro-
ject progress reports and summary project accounts to be
submitted to the District committee.
The District Executive Committees
(a) The responsibilities of the Committee Chairman and secretary
are the same as those for the thana committees, except the
requests, applications, reports and accounts of the District
would be submitted to the Project Executive Committee. The
Committee would meet at least once a month.
(b) The members of the committee would receive orders and
instructions from the headquarters of their agencies
concerning project implementation and transmit them to
thana committees.
(c) Each member would supervise and backstop his thana officers
in implementing the project components under his jurisdic-
tion. The main points of supervision are on adherence to
announced procedures, keeping time schedules and on close
cooperation between the thana officers. Each member would
compile and present to the Chairman, a District monthly
progress report and summary project account based on reports
submitted by his thana officer. He would, however, transmit
the detailed accounts and related papers submitted by the
thanas to the department headquarters.
The Project Executive Committee
(a) The committee would have overall responsibility for executing
the project. Each member agency would prepare detailed working
procedures for project components under its jurisdiction. The
Committee Secretariat would compile approved procedures into
an "operational manual" of the project.
(b) Each member would submit to the Chairman of this committee,
a quarterly progress report on the 15th of January, April, and
October and the 31st of July. The July report would include
quarterly progress and an annual report. The Committee
would also compile consolidated quarterly and annual pro-
ject reports for submission to PCC and IDA.
(c) Each member agency would keep separate accounts for the project
at thana, District and Central levels, and send copies of
its project accounts monthly to the Central Project Executive



- 54 -
Committee. The Committee Secretariat would collate and pro-
cess the accounts for application for IDA reimbursement.
(d) Auditors satisfactory to IDA would audit the project accounts
annually. The committee would send the audited project accounts,
together with auditors' comments, to IDA within six months of
the close of each financial year.
(e) The committee would manage the revolving fund created for the
project.
(f) The committee would meet at least once a month.
(g) The committee would ensure the prompt release by the customs
of goods imported for the project.
5.19      In addition to the Executive Committees at the thana, District
and project levels, a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be
established at the ministerial level. The committee would have the follow-
ing membership:
Chairman                 -      Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture
Member Secretary         -      Chairman, BADC
Members                  -      Chief, Rural Institutions Division,
Planning Commission
-      Director General, IRDP
-      Director, Agricultural Credit Dept.
Bangladesh Bank
-      Managing Director, Sonali Bank
-      Managing Director, Janata Bank
The committee would determine policy issues and approve detailed work pro-
cedures submitted by the Central Project Executive Committee. Approved
procedures would be issued as official orders by the agencies concerned.
The committee would see to it that Government project funds will be allocated
to the implementing agencies according to the PEP, and that major coordination
problems are resolved. Also, it would correspond with IDA on policy matters
related to the project. The committee would meet as often as necessary.
5.20      GOB has already established the various Executive Committees and the
Project Coordination Committee with memberships and terms of references satis-
factory to IDA.
Operation and Maintenance
5.21      Responsibility for operation and routine maintenance of the tube-
wells would lie with the buyers who would be instructed in these matters by
the BADC staff at the time of tubewell installation as well as through short
courses to be conducted following each dry season. Other maintenance and
major repairs would be the responsibility of BADC. Under the proposed
strengthening of the BADC's repair and maintenance facilities, it is envisaged



- 55 -
that BADC would employ mechanics at the rate of about 15 pump sets per mechanic.
The mechanics would be located at thana workshops. During the irrigation
season, about one quarter of the mechanics (those with better training) would
stay at the thana workshops to attend to the emergency breakdowns. The others
would make field trips to visit the tubewells for periodic check-up and main-
tenance. Each of the visiting mechanics would be individually responsible f'or
about 20 pump sets and would visit them once every two weeks on a pre-specified
rotation. Any pump set with other than a routine maintenance problem would be
brought to the thana workshop or, if necessary, to the zonal workshop. If
repairs are required during the irrigation season, BADC would provide temporary
replacements from its stock of standby pump sets (para 4.16). Regular repairs
and overhauls would be done during the non-irrigation season at thana or zonal
workshops. The cost of spares as well as at least 50% of the cost of service
would be borne by the tubewell owners.
5.22      Responsibilities for operation of the regional, zonal and thana
workshops and maintenance of the regional and zonal workshops would lie with
BADC. Responsibility for maintenance of thana workshops is currently with Min
LG&RD which owns these building and rents them to BADC. In the past, the main-
tenance arrangements have been unsatisfactory as BADC and Min LG&RD were un-
able to agree on rental terms and maintenance requirements. This matter has
now been resolved. Assurances have been obtained that the Thana workshops
would be made available to BADC under satisfactory arrangements.
5.23      Bicycles and motorcycles supplied under the project for the
field staff of BADC and IRDP-TCCAs would be sold to the staff on a 'hire-
purchase' basis on terms and conditions which are satisfactory. Respon-
sibility for the operation and maintenance of these vehicles would lie
with the respective staff who would be given a monthly allowance for this
purpose. Responsibility for operation and maintenance of other vehicles
and equipment would lie with the respective agencies.
5.24      Assurances have been obtained that the Government would make ade-
quate budgetary allocations to BADC and to IRDP for proper operation and
maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment to be used in implementation
of the project. Assurances have also been obtained that the Government would
make adequate budgetary and foreign exchange allocations to BADC for the im-
portation of spare parts necessary for maintenance of the irrigation equipment
in the NW region.
VI. PRODUCTION AND MARKET PROSPECTS
Projected Cropping Patterns
6.01      Project implementation would lead to increased cropping intensi-
ties and a shift from low-yielding and risky rainfed crops to relatively
risk-free and high-yielding irrigated crops. Rice would continue to dominate
the cropping patterns; however, there would be considerable change in the



- 56 -
relative importance of the various rice crops. Following the project, irri-
gated HYV boro would become the main rice crop. It would be cultivated
either as a replacement to B. aman or aus crops, or as an additional crop
on lands which currently remain fallow during the dry season. In the north-
ern parts of the region, with a relatively cooler climate and more permeable
soils, the project would also lead to a substantial increase in irrigated
wheat cultivation. Pulses and oilseeds now grown as a catch-crop using resid-
ual moisture in the dry season, would be largely replaced with high value
vegetable crops such a chillies, potatoes, brinjals and tomatoes. The avail-
ability of supplementary irrigation during the wet season would also ease the
shift from local to high yielding varieties (HYVs) of T. aman. However, as
such a shift would be partially dependent upon a strengthened agricultural
extension service, only a small part has been credited to the project.
6.02      Even though the cropping patterns in the command areas of the
project STWs are expected to vary considerably in various parts of the
region, for the sake of simplicity only three cases, corresponding to the
three major land use patterns in the regions (para 3.14), have been analyzed
in detail. The estimated present and projected future (at full development
in 1981) cropping patterns for the three cases are as follows:



- 57 -
Cropping          Cropping           Cropping
Pattern           Pattern            Pattern
I                 II                III
/a
P   W   W       P    W~ W        P         WW
---------- (Percent of cultivated area)-------
Paddy
lb 2
Aus (local)          25/25   -        -    -    -       20    10    _
Aus (HYV)            - /b -    -      _    _    _       -     10    _
B. Aman              904- 90   20    -    -             -     -      -
T. Aman (local)      -    -    -       85   75   70    85    75    70
T. Aman (HYV)        -    -    -       15   25   30    15    25    30
Boro (HYV)           -    -    50    -    -    70    -        -      20
Sub-total paddy    115  115   70   100  100  170   120   120   120
Other Crops
Jute                 -    -      -    -    -    -       20    20    20
Wheat                -    -    20    -    -    20    10    10    50
Pulses and oil
seeds               20   20   20    10   10   -        10    10    -
Vegetables           -    -    10    -    -    10    -        -      10
Sub-total other
crops               20   20   50    10   10   30    40    40    80
Total cropping
Intensity               135  135  120   110  110  200   160   160   200
/a   P = Present, W = Future without project, W = Future with project.
lb   Assumed equivalent to a cropping pattern with 30% mixed aus/B. aman
and 70% B. aman.
Projected Command Areas for Tubewells
6.03      The areas commanded by the project tubewells depend upon a variety
of factors -- some primarily technical (e.g. crop water requirements, cropp-
ing patterns, and the water output rate and the operating hours of the tube-
wells) and some primarily social and institutional (e.g. type of ownership
of the tubewell and the size of the group to be served). The major assump-
tions used in estimating the command areas are as follows:
(a) Crop Irrigation Requirements: The estimated requirements for
the various crops, on a semi-monthly basis are shown in
Table 4. The total requirements vary from about two



- 58 -
inches of supplementary irrigation for T. Aman to about
42 inches for boro cultivation. 1/ The annual irrigation
requirements corresponding to the three projected cropping
patterns (para 6.02), based on crop-specific requirements,
are about 28 inches for cropping pattern I, 37 inches for
II and 23 inches for III. The semi-monthly peak require-
ments for the three cropping patterns are estimated to be
4.4, 5.9 and 2.9 inches respectively. Peak requirements
occur in the second half of January for cropping patterns
I and II and first half of March for cropping pattern III
(Table 5).
(b) Water Output Rate: The four inch diameter tubewells would be
nominally rated at 0.75 cusecs. However, depending upon the
ground water conditions, the actual outputs for the various
tubewells is likely to vary considerably from the nominal
ones. Also, it is likely that in the later stages of their
useful life, the performance would deteriorate. Accordingly,
it is assumed that the actual output over the life span would
average 0.6 cusecs.
(c) Operating Hours: As (i) farmers in Bangladesh do not practice
night irrigation; (ii) communication and transportation services
are slow and inadequate; and (iii) fuel distribution system and
repair and maintenance facilities are likely to remain below
standard for some time in the future, it is assumed that even
during the peak periods, the tubewells would not be operated
for more than ten hours a day and more than 12 days out of
15, i.e. during the 15 days of peak water requirement, the
tubewells would be operated a maximum of 120 hours.
(d) Number of Farmers: Due to the small farm size and the high
degree of fragmentation (paras 3.11 - 3.12), the average plot
in the command area of a tubewell would probably be less than
one acre. Accordingly, the full utilization of the tubewell
potential would require the cooperation of perhaps 10 to 20
farmers. Any increase in the feasible command area would mean,
generally, an increase in the size of the group required for full
utilization. Past experience with minor irrigation schemes in
Bangladesh indicates that cooperative effort becomes increasingly
difficult as the number of users increases beyond 4 or 5 2/ and
accordingly, the actual command areas are generally less than
those technically feasible. There are no empirical studies on
the effects of increased group size on the irrigated area in
Bangladesh. On the basis of preliminary studies elsewhere, the
following relationship has been assumed.
1/   In areas with cropping pattern III, due to permeable soils, boro irri-
gation requirements would be about 20% higher, i.e. about 50 inches.
2/   Up to this point, the group may in fact be a close family situation.



- 59 -
CA' = 5 + 0.8 (CA - 5)
where CA and CA' are respective command areas in acres
before and after adjustment for organizational problems.
(e) Type of Ownership: Experience in Bangladesh with previous
minor irrigation schemes indicates that in individually
owned (controlled) tubewells, the water rates charged from
the neighboring users include a substantial monopoly rent and
are often two to three times of those required to cover the
capital and operating costs. The high water rates in turn
adversely affect demand for irrigation within the irrigable
command area. No reliable estimates of price elasticity of
demand for irrigation are available. However, because of
high financial returns from irrigation, it is likely to be
low. Also, it is likely that as irrigation becomes more
prevalent, the monopoly rents would go down. Accordingly,
it has been assumed that for the project tubewells sold to
individuals, the rental charge would average 50% higher than
that required for capital and operating costs, and the
command areas would be 20% smaller than those for the co-
operatively owned tubewells.
6.04      On the basis of the above, the projected command areas for IRDP-group
owned tubewells would average 14, 11 and 21 ac under cropping patterns I, II,
and III, respectively. For individually owned tubewells, 1/ the respective areas
would be 11, 9 and 17 ac 2/. For the estimated command areas, the utilization
rates for the tubewells would vary from 500 to 800 hours per annum, the average
being about 700 hours per annum.
Cultivation Practices, Yields and Production
6.05      The estimated present and the projected future crop yields
in the command areas of the project tubewells are as follows:
I/   It is estimated that due to lack of discipline and organization, the
utilization rates for jointly owned tubewells in non-IRDP Thanas (para
4.08) would be similar to those for individually owned tubewells. Accord-
ingly, separate analyses have not been made for such tubewells.
2/   Theoretically, command areas for supplementary irrigation during the
aman season can be much larger.  However, except perhaps during excep-
tionally dry years, it is unlikely to happen in practice since the
relatively small gains from supplementary irrigation in normal years
would not justify the increased organizational problems or expansion
of the water distribution system.



- 60 -
Future Without Future With
Present          Project          Project
Md/ac Ton/ac    Md/ac Ton/ac    Md/ac Ton/ac
Paddy
Aus (local)               12   0.45       12    0.45       12    0.45
Aus (HYV)                 20   0.75       22    0.82       22    0.82
B. Aman                   12   0.45       12    0.45       14    0.52
T. Aman (local)           16   0.60       18    0.67       20    0.75
T. Aman (HYV)             24   0.90       26    0.97       30    1.12
Boro (HYV)                35   1.31       37    1.38       37    1.38
Other Crops
Jute                      13   0.49       14    0.52       16    0.60
Wheat                     12   0.45       15    0.56       28    1.04
Pulses and Oilseeds        6   0.22        6    0.22        6    0.22
Vegetables                70   2.61       70    2.61       70    2.61
The yield estimates and projections correspond to the crop input levels shown
in Table 6. Estimates of the present yields and input levels are based on
a number of field surveys in the NW region and are broadly consistent with
aggregative data on land use, production and farm input usage within the
region. For the future, some improvements in cultural practices and yields
are likely even with the existing agricultural supporting services. Only
those improvements which will be directly related to the availability of
irrigation have been credited to the project. Substantial further increases
in yields should be possible with the strengthening of the supporting services
as envisaged under the proposed EARP (para 1.08).
6.06      Taking into consideration current land use, existing data on suit-
ability for groundwater development and existing irrigation intensities, it
is estimated that about 35% of the project-financed tubewells would go to
areas with cropping pattern I, 25% to areas with cropping pattern II and 40%
to areas with cropping pattern III. Assuming that in various areas, group
and individual ownership would be in the same proportion as for the whole
region, the weighted command area per tubewell would average 15 ac and the
project would benefit a total of about 150,000 ac -- 45,000 ac in areas with
cropping pattern I, 25,000 ac with cropping pattern II, and 80,000 ac with
cropping pattern III. The estimated overall cropping pattern and production
would be as follows:



- 61 -
Cultivated Area               Production
('000 ac)                    ('000 tons)
P      W        W          P       W      W
Paddy
Aus (local)                  27.0   19.0      -          12.2    8.5   -
Aus (HYV)                     -      8.0      -           -      6.7   -
B. Aman                      40.5   40.5      9.0        18.2   18.2   4.7
T. Aman (local)              89.0   79.0    73.5         53.4   52.9  55.1
T. Aman (HYV)                16.0   26.0    31.5         14.4   25.2  35.3
Boro (HYV)                    -      -       56.0         -      -    77.3
Sub-total paddy             172.5  172.5   170.0         98.2  111.5 172.4
Other Crops
Jute                         16.0   16.0    16.0          7.8    8.3   9.6
Wheat                         8.0    8.0    54.0          3.6    4.5  56.2
Pulses and oil seeds         19.5   19.5      9.0         4.3    4.3   2.0
Vegetables                    -      -       15.0         -      -    39.2
Sub-total other crops        43.5   43.5    94.0
Total all crops             216.0  216.0   264.0
Overall Cropping Intensity  144%   144%    176%
Thus, following project implementation, total paddy production in the command
areas would be about 172,000 tons compared to about 98,000 tons at present and
a projected 112,000 tons without the project. Similarly, the wheat production
would increase to about 56,000 tons from 4,000 tons at present and a projected
5,000 tons without the project. There would also be a large increase in veget-
able production from practically negligible levels at present. Jute production
is expected to stay largely unchanged while pulses and oilseeds, currently grown
as catch-crops during the dry season, would experience some reduction after the
availability of irrigation.
Crop Input Requirements
6.07      For the 150,000 ac of net cultivated area expected to be benefitted
from the project tubewells, present and future requirements of the main inputs
are estimated to be as follows:



- 62 -
Current Total Use
Input                  Total Annual Requirements        in NW Region /
p                 w    W
Fertilizers (Tons)
Urea                  1,830        3,140      11,040         60,000
TSP                     600        1,740       5,850         30,000
MP                       60          190       2,890         10,000
Pesticides (Tons)
Diazinon                 23          .28          52            500
Sumithion                23           28          52            500
/b
HYV Seed   (Tons)
Paddy                    50          140         260          1,000
Wheat                     -           -        1,000          1,500
Farm Labor (M m-days)       12.7         13.3        20.8            600
Animal Labor (M a-days)      3.4          3.5          4.6           150
/c
Diesel   (M I. Gallons)       -            -          2.0            2.0
/a   Except for farm and animal labor, estimated from data supplied by
BADC. Farm and animal labor estimates based on current cropping
patterns in NW. Due to varying data quality, estimates should be
treated as indicative only.
/b   Assuming average annual replacement of 20% for paddy and 50% wheat.
/c   Assuming fuel consumption of 0.30 I. gallons per hour per STW.
6.08      Thus, in the command areas, project implementation would lead to a
several-fold increase in use of fertilizers, pesticides, seeds and diesel,
and a substantial increase in farm and animal labor requirements. However,
as the project areas would be scattered over the whole NW region (net cul-
tivated area, about 7 M ac, para 3.11), the increases on a regional basis would
be relatively modest and no major difficulty is foreseen in coping with the
increased demands. The only inputs requiring special attention would be the
supply of HYV seeds and diesel. Lack of good quality seed in adequate quan-
tities has been a countrywide problem in the past. However, following com-
pletion of the IDA-financed Cereal Seeds Project (Credit 410-BD) expected
in 1979, adequate supplies should be available. For diesel supply, BADC
is already constructing about 15 new storage tanks, to double the existing
storage to about 1 M gallons. This should be adequate for the irrigation
development currently envisaged.



- 63 -
Market Prospects
6.09      During the past five years, Bangladesh has imported an average of
1.5 M tons of foodgrains annually. The project-related increase of approxi-
mately 90,000 tons would be merely 6% of the annual imports. With pros-
pects of continuing food shortages for the foreseeable future, the marketing.
of the project production should pose no problems on a country-wide basis.
For the project areas however, the situation is somewhat different. First,
the foodgrain balance for the NW region is somewhat better than that for rest
of the country -- in fact the northern parts of the region are one of the few
food surplus areas in Bangladesh. Secondly, because of a number of on-going
or proposed agricultural projects in the region (e.g. IDA-financed NW Tube-
wells Project and RD-I Project, and proposed EARP) it is likely that food pro-
duction in the region would increase significantly and hence there may be prob-
lems of localized surplus, particularly in remote and inaccessible areas.
Substantial drops in paddy and wheat prices, as happened this year following
a good aman harvest, would be a distinct possibility. However, the problem
would basically be one of tightening up the Government's procurement machinery
for effective implementation of the guaranteed support prices. In the past,
because of inadequate storage facilities and insufficient control on arrival
of foodgrain imports, GOB has not been very successful in stabilizing the farm
gate prices. The GOB realizes the importance of the matter and is examining
proposals for improving the effectiveness in order to avoid repetition of
this years' situation. With improvements in the procurement machinery, there
should be no problem in disposing of the regional surplus, if any, in other
parts of the country.
6.10      Vegetable production would be mostly for consumption within the
region. However, non-perishable vegetables such as chillies, potatoes and
onions would also constitute a substantial part of the increased production;
these could be stored and sold in the major cities outside the region. Al-
though there is likely to be some decline in prices from present levels, no
problem is foreseen in marketing the project-related surplus. Even at
the lowered prices, vegetable cultivation would remain highly profitable.
VII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
7.01      For economic analysis, the estimated future farm gate prices of
internationally traded agricultural inputs and outputs are derived from
projected 1980 world market prices (expressed in 1977 currency values),
with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and processing and
quality differentials (Table 7). Production of crops such as pulses and
oilseeds is small and most of the output is consumed locally -- often by
the cultivators themselves. Projected farm gate prices for such crops are
based on the typical ratio between prices and the price of rice in the
domestic market. In view of the large unemployment and underemployment



- 64 -
situation prevailing in the project areas, and the seasonal nature of much
of the employment, market wage rates have been adjusted to reflect the season-
specific opportunity costs (para 7.05). Finally, to reflect the foreign ex-
change scarcity in Bangladesh, a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.75 1/
has been used to adjust the domestic cost component in various inputs and
outputs.
7.02      Projecting prices for use in the financial analysis is much more
speculative. Since independence in 1971, the domestic prices of agricultural
commodities in Bangladesh have experienced wide swings. The wholesale price
for medium quality rice, for example, rose from Tk 56 per md in 1971/72 to Tk
272 per md in March 1975 and then declined to Tk 113 per md in December 1975.
Similarly, the jute price rose from Tk 50 per md in 1972/73 to Tk 129 per md
in November 1974 and then declined to Tk 90 per md in December 1975. In part,
these swings have been related to the fluctuations in the world market prices.
To a large extent, however, the main determinants have been the domestic supply-
demand conditions which, in turn, have depended upon quantity and timing of
food aid shipments, local weather conditions and the attractiveness of smug-
gling to neighboring countries. Although all through this period, the Govern-
ment has intervened in the market through compulsory procurement at fixed
prices or through "guaranteed support prices", its impact on the domestic
prices has been rather limited. The high degree of uncertainty in many of
the parameters which determine domestic prices, makes the task of projecting
prices for financial analysis particularly difficult.
7.03      Two different price assumptions are used for the financial analysis
in this report. For the base case, it is assumed that due to construction of
additional foodgrain storage, build-up of buffer stocks following the good
harvests in the past two years, and a general tightening up of the official
procurement machinery, the Government would be able to intervene more effec-
tively in the domestic market. As a result, the future farmgate prices (in
constant 1977 values) for paddy, wheat and jute would average the current
official procurement prices adjusted for transportation costs between the
farmgate and the procurement centers. Prices for vegetables, and pulses and
oilseeds are assumed to maintain typical historical ratios to the paddy prices.
Also it is assumed that, in constant terms, GOB would maintain the prices for
fertilizers, seeds and pesticides at the present levels. As regards human
and animal labor, the prevailing wage rates are considered to be depressed
due to low foodgrain prices at present and hence future rates are assumed to
be about 20% higher.
7.04      The alternative price assumption is basically a continuation of
the price situation experienced during the past year or so. It is assumed
that due to good harvests domestically and large food aid shipments from
abroad, the farm gate prices for foodgrains would remain below the official
procurement prices. Prices for vegetables and pulses and oilseeds would main-
tain their historical ratios to paddy prices while the jute prices would be
influenced only partially. Also it is assumed that the Government would let
1/ i.e. A shadow exchange rate of US$1 = Tk 20. (SCF = official exchange
rate/shadow exchange rate).



- 65 -
the prices (in constant terms) for fertilizers, seeds and pesticides to
decline below the present levels. Lastly wage rates for the human and
animal labor are assumed to be as at present.
7.05      The estimated financial and economic prices for the various
inputs and outputs are as follows:
Financial Price            Economic Price
Basic Case Alt. Case
Crops                   -----(Tk/md)----           ----(Tk/md)---
Paddy
Aman                            70         55                100
Aus                             65         50                 95
Boro                            65         50                 95
Wheat                                70         55                 110
Jute                                 90         80                 130
Pulses & Oilseeds                   100         80                 150
Vegetables                           50         40                  50
Inputs
Urea                                 60         50                 110
TSP                                  48         40                 135
MP                                   40         30                  80
Diazinon                            280        250                 700
Sumithion                           950        800              2,300
Seed HYV Paddy /a                    90         80                 150
Seed IiYV Wheat /a                  110        100                 150
Animal labor /b                       10         8                 7.5
Farm labor /c                         8          6                 3-6 /d
/a   For local varieties same as crop prices.
/b   Tk/day for a pair of bullocks.
/c   Tk/man-day.
/d   Tk 3/man-day during months of Jan., Feb., Sept. and Oct.
Tk 4.5/man-day during months of March-June, Nov. and Dec.
Tk 6/man-day during July and August.
7.06      Cost of Irrigation to the Farmers.  Table 8 details the estimated
annual capital and O&M costs for a STW operated 700 hours a year. The per
hour capital costs are estimated at Tk 4.6, 1/ direct O&M costs (diesel, oil,
1/   Assuming tubewells are sold at full cost including taxes and duties.
Excluding taxes and duties from the sale price of the tubewells would
reduce the per hour capital cost to about Tk 3.6.



- 66 -
spares and remuneration for operator), Tk 4.6, and indirect O&M costs
(BADC's maintenance facilities and staff) at Tk 1.8 i.e., a total of Tk 11
per hour 1/. All capital costs and direct O&M costs would be borne by the
users. Although at present users are not assessed for indirect O&M costs,
following the project, they would be required to pay about 50% of these
costs as well (para 4.33). Thus, the total cost to the farmers would be
about Tk 10 per hour and to BADC about Tk 1. On this basis, the per ac
cost of irrigation to the farmers for the three projected cropping patterns
(paras 6.02 and 6.03) would be Tk 460,620 and 390 per annum.
Farm Incomes
7.07      On the basis of the yield assumptions and crop input requirements
in para 6.05 and the financial price assumptions (basic case) in para 7.05,
the per acre gross and net values of production for the three major cropping
patterns in the region would be as follows:
1/   To some extent, the per hour cost depends upon the utilization rate
of the tubewell. As the annual utilization goes up, the cost would
go down.



- 67 -
Increase %
/a                          Over    Over Future
P         W         W        Present  without Proj.
-     (Tk/ac)-------
Cropping Pattern I
GVP                 /b   1,070    1,070       2,260         110          110
Cost of Farm Inputs-        740      740      1,570         110          110
Of which Farm Labor        (430)    (430)      (680)         60           60
Animal Labor               (185)    (185)      (190)          5            5
NVP         /c              330       330       690         110          110
Farm Income-                765      765      1,330          75           75
Cropping Pattern II
GVP                 /b   1,265    1,460       4,035         220          175
Cost of Farm Inputs -       855      920      2,675         215          190
Of which Farm Labor        (590)    (625)   (1,320)         125          110
Animal Labor               (185)    (185)      (335)         80           80
NVP         /c              410       540     1,360         230          150
Farm Income -               975    1,135      2,585         165          130
Cropping Pattern III
Id
GVP-                /b   1,670    1,950       3,555         115           80
Cost of Farm Inputs-    1,225    1,325        2,380          95           80
Of which Farm Labor        (825)    (895)   (1,280)          55           45
Animal Labor               (260)    (265)      (335)         30           25
NVP         /c              445       625     1,175         165           90
Farm Income-              1,235    1,475      2,365          90           60
/a   P = Present, W   Future without Project and W = Future with Project.
lb   Including cost of irrigation (para 7.06).
/c   Farm Income = NVP Plus 80% of the cost of farm labor and 50% of the
cost of animal labor
/d   Foodgrain prices discounted by 5% to reflect the food surplus situation
in areas with these cropping patterns.
7.08      As indicated above, typically, the gross value of production would
increase by 100 to 200%, farm labor requirement by 50-100% and the net value
of production by 100-200%. As most of the human and animal labors used for
cultivation are farmer owned, the net value of production is a relatively poor



- 68 -
indicator of the incentive to the cultivators. A more meaningful measure is
the total "farm income" from land and farmer owned human and animal labor.
Assuming that 80% of the human labor requirements and 50% of the animal labor
requirements are supplied by the farmer himself, 1/ the estimated per acre
"farm incomes" are also shown above. Increases in farm income would range
from 50-150%. The largest increases would take place in areas under cropping
pattern II where because of climatic and topographic constraints mostly single
cropping is practiced at present but potential exists for much more intensive
cultivation with irrigation. In other areas, the increases would be smaller
due to either the limited scope for development without drainage and flood
control works (areas under cropping pattern I) or a relatively high level of
existing development (areas under cropping pattern III). In all three cases
however, the incentives to the users are considered to be fully adequate for
their active participation in the project.
7.09      From the above table it is also clear that even if the cost of
irrigation was to be somewhat higher, as is likely in individually owned
tubewells (para 6.03), the use of tubewells would still remain attractive.
For example, if the cost of irrigation is increased by 50% (to Tk 15 per
operating hour), the increase in "farm income" over the without project case
would still range from 45-100%.
7.10      On the basis of per acre figures in para 7.07 and the projected
command area for tubewells as per para 6.04, the estimated gross and net
values of production for the command areas in various cases would be as
follows:
1/   These percentages are indicative only and likely to vary substantially
with the holding size. Generally, proportion of hired human labor
would increase and hired animal labor decrease with increase in the
holding size.



- 69 -
Group Owned          Individually Owned
/a
w          W           w       W-W
(Thousand Tk/STW)       (Thousand Tk/STW)
Cropping Pattern I
GVP                   b        15.0      31.6   16.6   11.8    24.8    13.0
Cost of Farm Inputs /          10.4      19.1    8.7    8.2    15.0       6.8
NVP /           d               4.6      12.5    7.9    3.6      9.8      6.2
Farm Income lc                 10.7      21.5   10.8    8.4    16.9       8.5
Cropping Pattern II
GVP                 lb         16.1      44.4   28.3    13.2   36.3    23.1
CosF of Farm Inputs-           10.1      26.3   16.2      8.3   21.5    13.2
NVP-        Ic Id               6.0      18.1   12.1      4.9   14.8      9.9
Farm Income- -                 12.5      31.5   19.0    10.2   25.8    15.6
Cropping Pattern III
GVP                 lb         41.0      74.7   33.7    33.2   60.5    27.3
Cos of Farm Inputs--           27.8     46.3   18.5    22.5   37.5    15.0
NVP-        /c /d              13.2      28.4   15.2    10.7   23.0    12.3
Farm Income- -                 31.0     53.3   22.3    25.1   43.2    18.1
/a   W = Future without Project, W = Future with Project.
lb   Excluding amortization cost of tubewells.
/c   Before amortization of the tubewell cost.
Td   NVP plus 80% of the cost of human labor and 50% of the cost of animal
labor.
Because of the potential for irrigating a larger area, the highest returns
per tubewell are obtained in areas with cropping pattern III. The incre-
mental annual NVP varies from a low of Tk 6,200 for individually owned tube-
wells in areas with cropping pattern I to a high of Tk 15,200 for group
owned tubewells in areas with cropping pattern III. Even the lowest incre-
mental NVP is more than one-third of the estimated capital cost of an STW.
More relevantly, the annual "farm incomes" per STW would increase by Tk 8,500-
22,300, the increments being 2-4 times the annual payments required for servi-
cing of the loans taken for purchase of STWs. Net of debt service payments,
the increases in annual "farm incomes" would be in the range of Tk 4,000-
18,000 per STW, representing generally a more than 50% increase in the pro-
jected "farm incomes" without the project. In addition, while the STW loans
would be serviced over a five year period, the STWs, depending upon the crop-
ping patterns, are expected to last 7-10 years. Thus, the increases in in-
comes during the latter years would be even more.



- 70 -
7.11      As  an alternative measures of the financial viability of the
project, financial rates of return have been calculated for various kinds of
buyers. For simplicity in analysis, the following assumptions have been made.
(a) a uniform useful life of 5,000 operating hours for all
tubewell components;
(b) no scrap value;
(c) pricing of all human and animal labor at the market
wage rates;
(d) a six month gestation period for investment in an STW;
(e) a six month lag between expenditures on crop inputs
and receipt from farm production;
(f) lending terms as proposed under the project; and
(g) in individually owned tubewells, out of the total
command area,5 ac belong to the tubewell owner
and the rest to farmers who buy water from him at a
50% premium over his cost (para 6.04).
Some typical cost and benefit streams are shown in Tables 9-11. For group
buyers, the estimated annual rates of return vary between 65-115%, for in-
dividuals buying on credit between 35-60%, and for those buying on cash be-
tween 25-35%. 1/ Expectedly, the highest returns are obtained in case of
cropping pattern III and the lowest for cropping pattern I.
7.12      The most serious risk to the financial viability would arise from:
(a) lower than projected command areas for the tubewells; and, (b) lower food-
grain prices. Sensitivity tests indicate that if the actual command areas
are 20% smaller than projected, the financial rates of return would vary from
20%-100%. Similarly, if the farm gate prices are as projected under the alter-
native case (para 7.04), the rates of return would range from 20% to 60%. In
the unlikely event that both (a) and (b) were to happen simultaneously, the
rates of return would be still in the range of 15 to 40%. Thus, the invest-
ments in project tubewells would be financially viable under most circumstances.
Recovery of Costs
7.13      Except for a part of the indirect O&M costs and possibly the import
duties and taxes (para 4.17), all capital and O&M costs for the tubewells would
be borne by the users. Depending upon the pricing policy for STWs, the cost
recovery on the project, in financial terms, would range from 80-90%. The
1/   It should be noted that the above analysis assumes constant price levels
for the future. Any inflation in domestic prices would reduce the real
cost of servicing the loans for STWs and would make the investments even
more attractive to the farmers.



- 71 -
estimated "benefit recovery index" would vary from 35-55% and the "rent re-
covery index" from 45-65% (Table 12). The high cost recovery on the project
is particularly striking since most other irrigation facilities in Bangladesh
are heavily subsidized. For example, there is about a 50% subsidy on LLPs,
70-80% on DTWs and over 90% on major gravity irrigation. While it is clear
from the financial analysis in the previous paragraphs that the high recovery
rates under the project are fully compatible with leaving enough incentive
to the farmers, for reasons of equity and better resources allocation, it is
imperative that GOB should rationalize its policies on "pricing" of irrigation
water from different modes of irrigation. An IDA Mission visited Bangladesh
in August 1976 to discuss the issue with the Government. The Government has
indicated its intention to reduce subsidies on other irrigation facilities and
is' studying the implications of various alternative policies. Assurances have
been obtained that before December 31, 1978, BADC would furnish to IDA for
comments, a plan to recover from the beneficiaries the O&M cost and as much
as possible of the capital costs of all irrigation facilities provided through
BADC. Such a plan would take into account inter alia (a) the impact on GOB's
budgetary allocations to BADC and the GOB's growth strategy for the agricul-
tural sector; (b) the relative efficiency of the various modes of irrigation;
and (c) incentives to various categories of projected beneficiaries. Assur-
ances have also been obtained that GOB would consult with IDA on time tables
as well as measures to be followed for implementation of such a plan.
Impact on the Government Budget
7.14      It is estimated that during project implementation GOB would receive
a total of Tk 69.0 M as taxes and duties on goods imported for the project
(para 4.40). Net of its expected contribution of Tk 15.0 M for financing part
of the project cost (para 4.42), incremental receipts by GOB during the 4-year
implementation period would amount to about Tk 54.0 M. Estimating the budget
impact following project implementation is more difficult. In part, it would
depend upon future GOB policies regarding:
(i) pricing of agriculture inputs such as fertilizers,
pesticides and seeds;
(ii) charges for repair and maintenance services for
irrigation facilities; and
(iii) procurement and rationing of food grains.
The impact would also depend upon the fungibility of external aid available
to Bangladesh. Assuming continuation of the present situation, the net in-
cremental budgetary requirements would be about Tk 25 M per annum. However,
given increased fungibility of external aid and/or reduced subsidies on
agricultural inputs in accordance with the stated policy of GOB, the net
requirement could be substantially smaller or even changed to net budgetary
receipts.



- 72 -
Benefits and Economic Justification
7.15      Bangladesh presently imports about 15% of its foodgrain demand
and this severely restricts its capacity to import other essential goods.
A direct project benefit would consequently be the foreign exchange saving
due to the increased foodgrain production. At full implementation, in four
years, the project tubewells would provide irrigation to about 150,000 ac
of cultivated land which presently is mostly single cropped under rainfed
conditions. As a result, the total paddy production in the command areas
would increase by about 61,000 tons (40,000 tons of rice) and the wheat
production by about 51,000 tons. The increased foodgrain production of
91,000 tons would mean an annual gross foreign exchange saving of about
US$21 M. Allowing for increased foreign exchange expenditures on fuel,
fertilizers, pesticides, and spares and replacements for tubewells, the net
annual foreign exchange saving due to the project would be about US$17 M.
7.16      The more intensive land use under the project would create addi-
tional annual farm labor requirements of about 7.5 M man-day, an increase
of about 60% over the present level. In addition, the increased agricultu-
ral production, through backward and forward linkages would create sub-
stantially increased employment in activities such as supply of farm in-
puts, marketing of produce, transportation, processing and other services.
While it is difficult to make a reliable estimate of this secondary employ-
ment, the limited data available from other developing countries indicates
that an increased agriculture production of US$1,500-2,000 results in the
creation of about one man-year (250 man-days) of secondary employment. On
this basis, the secondary employment should be about 3-4 M man-days. Thus
as a result of the project, the total employment would increase by about
10 to 11 M man-days. While much of this increased requirement would come
from the farmers themselves (who are generally underemployed at present),
the landless laborer would also benefit significantly.
7.17      An important feature of the project is that about one-third of
the total initial investment would come from private savings (as downpay-
ment by users or from commercial banks). This would mean that the project
would require practically no local cost financing by the Government. Also,
the project tubewells would involve practically no subsidies, as the bene-
ficiaries would pay for the capital and most of the O&M costs of the project.
These features are particularly desirable, in view of the difficult budgetary
situation of the Government and the need for mobilization of private savings
for productive investment.
7.18      In a project such as this where the major result is to increase
the productivity of land, to a large extent the distribution of direct bene-
fits must follow the existing land ownership pattern. In setting-up the
institutional arrangements for the project, however, particular attention was
paid to ensuring that small farmers get at least a fair chance to benefit from
the project. Thus, for example, for a group to be eligible for credit, at
least 50% of the proposed land for irrigation would have to belong to farmers
who own a total of 3 ac or less. It is estimated that overall about 40% of
the lands likely to be benefitted under the project would belong to farmers
who are presently below the poverty line (para 3.14).



- 73 -
7.19      Economic Rate of Return.  The prices of agricultural inputs and
outputs used in the economic analysis are discussed in para 7.01. Other
assumptions for the analysis are as follows:
(a)  Investment Costs:  All project costs except price
contingencies (Tk 56.3 M) and taxes and duties
(Tk 59.0 M) 1/ are included in the economic analysis.
Even though the repair and maintenance facilities
included in the project would also service other
irrigation equipment in the NW, for simplicity and
to be conservative, all costs have been allocated to
this project. On this basis, the investment costs
are estimated at Tk 265.7 M of which Tk 79.4 M are in
local costs. Shadow pricing the local cost component
with an SCF of 0.75 (para 7.01) results in an estimated
"economic" cost of Tk 245.5 M (say Tk 245 M).  It is
assumed that the tubewells would have a useful life of
seven years and no scrap values.
(b)  O&M Cost:  All direct and indirect O&M costs for the
tubewells are included in recurrent crop production
costs. Administration and supervision of the credit
program by CBs, IRDP, TCCAs and KSSs would require about
Tk 5 M annually of which about Tk 1 M would be in foreign
exchange and the rest in local costs. Shadow pricing the
local costs leads to an estimated economic cost of Tk 4 M
per year.
(c)  Benefits:  In addition to the increased crop production
in the areas to be irrigated by the project tubewells, the
improved repair and maintenance facilities would increase
the utilization rates for other irrigation equipment in
the region. In this analysis, however, only the increased
production in the directly benefited areas is counted as a
project benefit. Expected crop yields, acreages and pro-
duction are shown in paras 6.05 and 6.06. At full develop-
ment the gross incremental production benefit in economic
terms are estimated at Tk 355 M per annum (Table 13).
(d)  Crop Production Costs:  The economic costs for incremental
requirements of fertilizer, pesticides, seeds, animal labor
and other miscellaneous expenditures (para 6.07) are esti-
mated at Tk 61.6 M per annum. The O&M cost of irrigation by
the farmers and BADC would be about Tk 38.5 M per annum.
Annual cost of incremental farm labor requirements (about
7.5 M man-days) evaluated at seasonally adjusted wage
rates (para 7.05), is estimated at Tk 29.4 M or about Tk 4
per man-day which is equivalent to about 50% of the peak
1/   Taxes and duties in the amount of (Tk 10.0 M) are included in price
contingencies.



- 74 -
market wage rate. The total crop production costs are
accordingly estimated at about Tk 130 M per annum (Table 14).
(e) Phasing of Benefits: Even though at the farm level, benefits
from the tubewells would start within six months of the
installation to allow for time taken during procurement and
shipment of the equipment and materials, a one year lag is
assumed between investment expenditures on tubewells and the
start of benefits from tubewells. Conservatively, a one year
lag is also assumed between expenditures on crop inputs and
receipts from farm production.
On the basis of the assumptions described above, the economic rate of return
is estimated to be about 50% (Table 15).
7.20      Separate analyses of the tubewells with different cropping patterns
and ownership arrangements, indicates that although economic returns under
cropping pattern I and II and under individual ownership are somewhat lower
than those in other cases, all cases are economically viable. The lowest
return, obtained for individually owned tubewells in areas with cropping
pattern I, is about 35%.
7.21      Sensitivity and Risks.  Sensitivity tests indicate that even if
the projected command areas were to be 25% lower or investment costs 25%
higher or crop production costs 25% higher, the economic rate of return
would still exceed 40%. Similarly, even if all farm labor is valued at the
peak market wage rate, or a standard conversion factor is assumed as 1.0
(i.e. official exchange rate = shadow exchange rate), the rate of return
would remain over 40%. A reduction by 25% in the estimated gross incremental
benefits (say due to lower than projected crop prices) would reduce the rate
of return to about 30%. In the unlikely event that projected crop prices are
25% lower and command areas 25% smaller, the rate of return would be about
25%. Thus, the project would be economically viable under practically all
circumstances.
7.22      The high economic returns are essentially a result of two factors --
a very low unit investment (cost per irrigated acre would be about US$110 in
economic terms) and the short gestation period (benefit derived within one
year of the investment in shallow tubewells). The high economic returns
coupled with the large unexploited groundwater resource of Bangladesh, makes
shallow tubewells among the top priority investments for development of agri-
culture in Bangaldesh.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01       Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) a precondition for installing project-financed shallow
tubewells in a thana would be the availability of a
Thana Irrigation Map, prepared in accordance with
standards satisfactory to IDA (para 4.04);



- 75 -
(b) the institutional set-up and the terms and conditions
for the sale of project-financed tubewells would be
satisfactory to IDA and that by December 31, 1977,
BADC would phase out its "hire-purchase" system for
sale of shallow tubewells, on a country-wide basis
(para. 4.08);
(c) in project thanas where the existing hydrological
data is found to be inadequate, BADC would commission
the drilling of test holes and other appropriate
tests to determine, before June 30, 1978, the
suitability of those thanas for shallow tubewell
development (para 4.14);
(d) the project STWs would be sold at prices sufficient to
cover at least the equivalent of 100% of the capital
costs (net of taxes and duties). In the project areas,
after December 31, 1977, any non-project STWs would be
sold at prices and on terms and conditions comparable
to those for project-financed STWs (para 4.17);
(e) GOB would appoint an expert committee to review the
issue of groundwater development in Bangladesh and
the committee would submit to IDA by December 31, 1979,
a draft legislation for regulation of groundwater
development (para 4.19);
(f) GOB would issue orders instructing BJSB, BKB and IRDP
to provide the necessary credit information on pros-
pective tubewell buyers within two calendar months of
the request by the concerned CBs (para 4.26);
(g) BADC would: (i) consolidate the field organization of its
Irrigation Directorate in the NW region by June 30, 1978;
(ii) assign a work program to regional, zonal and thana
workshops in the NW region which is satisfactoy to IDA;
and (iii) employ a workshop management expert for at
least two years to help in initial implementation of
the repair and maintenance improvement program in the
NW region (para 4.33);
(h)  BADC would (i) sell to qualified private sector mechanics
in the NW region spare parts for irrigation equipment on a
"cost plus handling" basis; and (ii) charge the users of its
repair and maintenance services full cost of the spare parts
as well as at least 50% of the cost of service facilities
(para 4.33);
(i) GOB would promptly send to IDA quarterly and annual reports
on the project progress (para 4.34);



- 76 -
(j) BADC would, by March 31, 1978 hire a well qualified local
consulting firm or research institution for undertaking the
evaluation work for the project (para 4.36);
(k) preparation of KSS land registers and inventories of
overdue institutional debt owed by KSS members would be
completed before March 31, 1978 (para 4.37);
(1) the Government would establish a project revolving fund with
an initial contribution of Tk 4.5 M and provide temporary
advances, as necessary, to the fund to maintain balances
adequate to cover expected expenditures for the following
three months (para 4.43);
(m)  to assist the Project Executive Committee in administering
the project revolving fund and to help the various imple-
menting agencies in developing suitable accounts for the
project, GOB would contract the services of a qualified
local firm of chartered accountants on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.50);
(n) the Government would cause all participating agencies
to maintain separate accounts for the project at thana,
District and project levels. Auditors acceptable to
IDA would audit the project level accounts annually and
the audited accounts, together with the auditors's comments,
would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each
fiscal year. Auditing of the credit accounts for
STWs would continue until all loans provided to farmers
during the project implementation period are repaid
(para 4.50);
(o) the locations, floor plans and designs for the regional
and zonal workshops would be satisfactory to IDA (para 5.13);
(p) the Government would assign an adequate number of additional
staff to the various implementing agencies (para 5.15);
(q) Thana workshops would be made available to BADC under
satisfactory arrangements (para 5.22);
(r) the Government would make adequate budgetary allocations
to BADC and IRDP for proper operation and maintenance of
buildings, vehicles and equipment to be used in imple-
mentation of the project (para 5.24); and
(s) the Government would make adequate budgetary and foreign
exchange allocations to BADC for import of spare parts
necessary for maintenance of the irrigation equipment
in the NW region (para 5.24); and



- 77 -
(t) before December 31, 1978, BADC would furnish to IDA
for comments, a plan to recover from the beneficiaries
the O&M cost and as much as possible of the capital
costs of all irrigation facilities provided through
BADC. Such plan would take into account inter alia
(a) the impact on GOB's budgetary allocations to BADC
and the GOB's growth strategy for the agricultural
sector; (b) the relative efficiency of the various
modes of irrigation; and (c) incentives to various
categories of projected beneficiaries. Also, GOB
would consult with IDA on time tables as well as
measures to be followed for implementation of such a
plan (para 7.13).
8.02       Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a)  IDA has received duly ratified Project Agreement from
the Sonali and Janata Banks (para 4.23);
(b) the Government has approved a consolidated Project
Performa for the project (para 4.43); and
(c) the Government has established a revolving fund for the
project and made an initial contribution of Tk 4.5 mil-
lion to the fund (para 4.43).
8.03      A condition for disbursement from IDA credit for workshop related
expenditures (Item I (c) and II in the proposed credit allocation, para 4.48)
would be that BADC has employed a workshop management expert with experience
and qualification satisfactory to IDA (para 4.33).
8.04       With the above assurances obtained, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$16 million on standard IDA terms. The
Borrower would be the Peoples' Republic of Bangladesh.
June 2, 1977






LIST OF TABLES
TABLE 1        -      Present Adaptation of Cropping Pattern to
Land and Soil
TABLE 2        -      A.  Size Distribution of Farms
B. Size Distribution of Cultivated Area
TABLE 3        -      Acreage and Production of Foodgrains
TABLE 4        -      Crop Water Requirements (inches)
TABLE 5        -      Semi-Monthly Irrigation Requirements Per Acre
TABLE 6        -      Crop Input Requirements
TABLE 7        -      Prices for Economic Analysis
TABLE 8        -      Estimated Capital and O&M Cost of a 4-inch
Dia. Shallow Tubewell
TABLE 9(a)     -      Financial Rate of Return (IRDP-Group Owned Tubewell,
Cropping Pattern I)
TABLE 9(b)     -      Financial Rate of Return (IRDP-Group Owned Tubewell,
Cropping Pattern II)
TABLE 9(c)     -      Financial Rate of Return (IRDP-Group Owned Tubewell,
Cropping Pattern III)
TABLE 10(a)    -      Financial Rate of Return (Individual Owned
Tubewell Purchased on Credit, Cropping
Pattern I)
TABLE 10(b)    -      Financial Rate of Return (Individual Owned
Tubewell Purchased on Credit, Cropping
Pattern II)
TABLE 10(c)    -      Financial Rate of Return (Individual Owned
Tubewell Purchased on Credit, Cropping
Pattern III)
TABLE 11(a)    -      Financial Rate of Return (Individual Owned
Tubewell Purchased on Cash, Cropping
Pattern I)
TABLE 11(b)    -      Financial Rate of Return (Individual Owned
Tubewell Purchased on Cash, Cropping
Pattern II)
TABLE 11(c)    -      Financial Rate of Return (Individual Owned
Tubewell Purchased on Cash, Cropping
Pattern III)
TABLE 12       -      Project Rent and Cost Recovery
TABLE 13       -      Annual Gross Benefits (Economic)
TABLE 14       -      Annual Crop Production Costs (Economic)
TABLE 15       -      Economic Rate of Return






Table 1
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Present Adaptation of Cropping Pattern to Land and Soil
Soil           State of Flood                      Present Cropping Pattern
Land Type      Land Elevation       Permeability   During Monsoon Season              Spring      Summer & Fall       Winter
1          High                      High               Free                Aus or Millet   Fallow or Karif  Rabi or Fallow
Fallow           vegetables    Rabi or Fallow
2          High (flood plain)        Low                Free                Aus or Jute            Fallow            Rabi
3          High (Barind Tract)    Low            Water poundable            Fallow or Aus          T. aman           Fallow
by bunding
4          Medium                    High        Water poundable            Aus or Jute            T. aman       Rabi or Fallow
by bunding
5          Medium                   Low          Very shallowly             Aus or Jute            T. aman       Rabi or Fallow
flooded
6          Medium                   Low          Flooded up to              Aus or Jute            T. aman       Rabi or Fallow
3 ft.
7          Medium                   Low         With flood                  Aus               Tall T. aman           Fallow
hazard
8          Low                 High or Low       Deep, but not              Mixed Aus              B. aman
hazardous                  & B. aman            (continue)
Jute                   Fallow
9          Low                 High or Low       Deep and                   B. aman                 B. aman
hazardous                                        (continue)         Fallow
Fallow                 Fallow            Boro
10          Low, Char land    High or Low         Flood hazard               Fallow                  Fallow           Fallow
Aus, or millet       Fallow or
or B. aman           B. aman        Rabi or Fallow
(continue)
11          Low, Char land    High or Low         Flood hazard               Fallow                 Fallow            Fallow
B. aman              B. aman (Cont.)   Fallow
12          Low, Flood plain  High or Low         Flood hazard               Aus or Jute
ridges outside                                                or Millet              Fallow        Rabi or Fallow
of embankment
13           Low, Flood plain  High or Low        Flood hazard               Mixed Aus &             B. aman      Fallow
depressions out-                                              B. aman               (continue)
side of embankment                                            Jute                   Fallow        Fallow
Compiled from data in (1) East Pakistan Soil Survey Reports, Bogra District and (2) Report on the
Potential for Rainfed HYV Rice Cultivation in 2angladesh, by H. Brammer, 1974.



Table 2
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
A. Size Distribution of Farms
----------------------(% of Farms)-------------
Farm Size (ac)    Dinajpur   Rangpur   Bogra   Rajshahi   Pabna   NW Region   Bangladesh
Under 1.0               5          13        12        14          23         13            24
1.0 - 2.5              17          29        31        20          24         25           27
2.5 - 5.0              35          33        33        29          27         31            26
5.0 - 12.5             35          22        21        30          22         26            19
12.5 and over           8           3         3         7           4          5             4
Total No. of
Farms ('000)         221         497       195       366        224      1,503         6,139
B. Size Distribution of Cultivated Area
Farm Size (ac)    Dinajpur   Rangpur   Bogra   Rajshahi   Pabna   NW Region   Bangladesh
Under 1.0               -           1         1         1           3          1             3
1.0 - 2.5               5          13        14          7         10         10            13
2.5 - 5.0              23          29        31        21          24         26            26
5.0 - 12.5             46          39        39        45          41         42            38
12.5 and over          26          17        14        26          22         21           19
Total cultivated
Area (M ac)           1.22        1.99      0.75      1.85        0.88       6.69          21.73
Average Farm
Size (ac)             5.5         5.0       3.8       5.0         3.9        4.5            3.5
Source: Census of Agriculture (1960)



BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
AcreaEe and Production of Foodgrains
2/                                 Per Capita
1/  1/e1/                 Wheat & Other-        Total           1974        Foodgraias
Aus               Arml/               Boro           All Rice-       Foodgrains          Foodgrains    population   Production
Area 3/ Prod.3/      Area    Prod.    Area    Prod.    Area    Prod.    Area    Prod.    Area    Prod.    (Million)   (Lbs/annum)
Dinajpur           388     140            788    369        9       8       1,184    518       13       4       1,197    522       2.57           455
Rangpur            892     304          1,272    684       34      30       2,198  1,018       15       6       2,213  1,024       5.45           421
Bogra              246      79            628    299       34      28         907    406       16       6         923    412       2.23           414
Rajshahi           454     155          1,074    471       92      73       1,620    723       67      20       1,687    743       4.27           390
Pabna              340     106            502    170       30      28         872    304       88      31         960    335       2.81           267
NW Region     2,320      784         4,264  1,993       200     167       6,782  2,944      199      67       6,981  3,011      17.33           389
1/   4 year (1969/70 - 1972/73) averages.  Source: Bangladesh Agriculture in Statistics,
Ministry of Agriculture.
2/   3 year (1971/72 - 1973/74) averages.  Source: Basic Statistics of Bangladesh Agriculture,
Ministry of Agriculture.
3/   Area in thousand acres and production in thousand tons of clean grains
March 3, 1977



-             OOOCOOI'0 0    0               '00    0000             '00    0000                  00400K∞         0Swo                     SM∞n.o
o     0..  0000             .0s         00000  t               or4 040 -.             0                            ~        40    0 0
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
0-                                                                 a-  8                 -''           -         e∞~oo,                       g g
o                                                                   -       r22  , 
0 _                                                                  .             .              .  Z0
1   0g ::                %      '                00                                            cogo    O04
a~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                             00 -0                            00   CO   C
I~~ . .H .                                                                           c....                                                                                                         .4 I0 s_oc   
I ~ ~ ~    ~~~~~~~~                                         00 r0    00                                           00. Cn                  00      COo 0;  o                             - r0   or       NOl ,    
v~~~~0 0                                 0                                                                             00       Oo e         cmQ∞o Co    00o0o_ 0-
m  <              _ O N  ~N  -S 0         0                                                                             -00    000             00 rl0 O0       1 OO N V.  
0 g        4 s   -0                                                                                       0 00 s        ,0 , o ON  000 O       1 4            
-    00                                                                                                       00   000               00   000<<>   84 '0  s-c
o,-.ooo-...255,4,>4                     2∞             au4a
o               0.00       o  o                                                                           00       00-          00        000z  m-r _  :
_ 0                    Ns4  0                                                                        -                        oc    tC~    000  0|-    C CtKe-N
00400~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 0                               0000.0    oo62                                I 
-00000-,                                                                                   CoO    CO              0-000. 00000   C  0  4                                   a
O C a X = X O C~~~~~ aso.                                                                        c          ;   a       40000  =100    ==tX
..I U-  C.i                                                                                                                           *   ...........                     f             S
∞l   _| P <:    ∞            ~~4  140                   001.4                  0.1. =|~  0}~f 1 "                                     
ul             v                                                   vnl                    cl                                              -I-I-I            -I-I-I40I-1-1--.



Table 5
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Semi-Monthly Irrigation Requirements Per Acre
(ac-in)
% of Culti-      Nov        Dec           Jan         Feb          Mar        Apr
vated Area     I    II      I   II      I    II     I    II      I    II     I    II    Total
Cropping Pattern I
Paddy
boro                 50          -    -       -   0.1    3.6  3.8    2.0  2.1    2.4  2.5    2.5  1.8    20.8
b. aman              20          -    -       -    -      -    -       -    -      -    -      0.7  0.2     0.9
Wheat                  20           -   0.3    0.3  0.4    0.3  0.4    0.5  0.6    0.6  0.5       -    -       3.9
Vegetables             10           -   0.4    0.1  0.2    0.1  0.2    0.2  0.2    0.3  0.3    0.2   -         2.2
Total           100          -   0.7    0.4  0.7    4.0  4.4    2.7  2.9    3.3  3.3    3.4  2.0    27.8
Cropping Pattern II
Paddy
boro                 70           -    -      -   0.2    5.1  5.3    2.8  2.9    3.4  3.5    3.5  2.6    29.3
t. aman             100          1.9   -      -    -      -    -       -    -      -    -       -    -       1.9
Wheat                  20           -   0.3    0.3  0.4    0.3  0.4    0.5  0.6    0.6  0.5       -    -       3.9
Vegetables             10           -   0.4    0.1  0.2    0.1  0.2    0.2  0.2    0.3  0.3    0.2   -         2.2
Total          200          1.9  0.7    0.4  0.8    5.5  5.9    3.5  3.7    4.3  4.3    3.7  2.6    37.3
Cropping Pattern III
Paddy
boro                 20           -    -      -   0.1    1.4  1.5    0.8  0.8    1.0  1.0    1.0  0.7        8.3
t. aman             100          1.9   -      -    -       -    -      -    -       -    -      -    -       1.9
Wheat                  50           -   0.8    0.8  0.9    0.9  1.0    1.3  1.3    1.6  1.3       -    -       9.9
Vegetables             10           -   0.4    0.1  0.2    0.1  0.2    0.2  0.2    0.3  0.3    0.2   -         2.2
Jute                   20           -    -      -    -       -    -      -    -       -    -      0.7  0.2     0.9
Total        200          1.9  1.2    0.9  1.2    2.4  2.7    2.3  2.3    2.9  2.6    1.9  0.9    23.2



BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
I/
Crop Input Requirements
Pulses &               2/
Aus(local)   Aus(HYV)         B. Aman          T. Aman (local)          T.Aman (YV)   Boro(YV                 Jute                Wheat            Oileeds2/  Vegetable
P    F    P        F      P    FW   FW    P    FW         FW        P    FW    FW       P     F      P            FW      P     F       FW      P     F      P      F
FERTILIZERS AND PESTICIDES
Urea (46% N)      (mds/ac)    -    -    0.5    1.0    -    -    -0 .2           0.3       0.4       1.0  1.2   1.5    1.6   1.8   0.7   0.8   0.8    0.5   0.8    1.4    -            -     2.0    2.0
TSP (467. P205)   (mds/ac)    -    -    0.3    0.5    -    -    -   -           0.2       0.2       0.5  0.6   0.8    0.8   1.0   0.5   0.5   0.5    -          0.3    0.7    -       -      1.0    1.0
M P (607. K)      (uds/ac)    -    -    0.1    0.1    -    -    -                 -       0.1       0.1  0.1   0.3    0.4   0.5   -        0.1   0.1    -       -       0.3    -      -      1.0    1.0
Diazinon          (mds/ac)      .   -    0.01   0.01   -    -    -  0.005   0.005    0.005    0.01 0.01  0.01   0.01  0.01 -               -      -      -      -       -      -      -      0.01   0.01
Sumithion         (mds/ac)    -    -    0.005  0.01   -    -    -  0.005   0.005    0.005    0.01 0.01  0.01   0.01  0.01  -               -      -      -      -       -      -      -      0.01   0.01
LABOR
Preparation       (m-d/ac)    17   17   18        19     15   15   15    20   21          22        22   22    22       22    22    15    16    16        19    20      21      15    15    30       30
Planting and
Nursing          (m-d/ac)      2    2    2        2      2    2    2    18   18          18        18   18    18       18    18      1     1      1       2     2       2       1      1    20      20
Crop anagement  (m-d/ac)        6    6   10       11       3    3    3    10   11         12        11   12    13       12    15    18    20    20        12    14      16       2      2    25      25
lIarvesting and
Tbreshing       (r-d/ac)    20   20   22        23     20   20   20    22   23          24        25   27    28       30    31    50    50    50        22    26      31      17    17    60       60
br s           (hedLac)    45   45   52       55      40   40   40    70   73          76        76   79    81      82    86    84    87    87        55    62       70      35    35   130    130
f  icb  duria
slaek Pariodq_4/             (24) (24) (28)   (30)   (27) (17) (27)   (6)  (6)           (7)      (7)  (9)   (9)    (40)  (40)   -        -      -     (10)  (12)   (16)   (20)  (20)  (60)   (60)
n    *date ouri.d  5/            -    -   -        -    (12) (12) (12)  (30) (32)         (33)    (33) (35)  (36)    (42)  (46)  (70) (72)  (72)    (45)  (50)   (54)   (15)  (15)  (70)   (70)
took Periods 6/               (21) (21) (24)   (25)    (1)  (1)  (1)  (34) (35)           (36)    (36) (36)  (36)       -      -    (14) (1I)  (15)   _-         -        _      _      _    _        _
Aimal Pewr         (a-d/Ic)    15   15   17       17      15   15   15    17   17          17        17   17    17       17    17    16    16    16        10    14      16      15    15    15       15
good              (dela/c)    1.0  1.0  1.0    1.0    1.0  1.0  1.0   0.4  0.4             0.4       0.4  0.4   0.4    0.4   0.4   0.1   0.1   0.1    1.0   1.0    1.0    0.3   0.3   1.0    1.0
Irrigatien        (ac-in/ac)  -    -    -         -       -    -      4    -    -          2         -    -       2     421/ 423/  -        -       4      -     -       20      -     -      22      22
Kiscellaous    (Tk/-c)          10   10   10      20      10   10   10    10   15          15        30  30    40        30    40    10    10    10        10    30      40      10    10    40       40
t/ P - ftaat, I --Future (with or without project), WV- Future without project, 1W - Future with project.
I/ 0tomita crops. Irput requiremn ts a notional.
"/ 50 ines ti  area  ith cro"ping pattern III (mostly Dinajpur and Rangpur Districts).
4/ MonthS of jen., Feb., Sept. and Oct.
5/ totho of 11kreh to June, Nov. and Dec.
6/ Months of July  and   ut.                                                                                                                                                                                      a
2/10/77



Table 7
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PRDJECT
Prices for Economic Analysis
Item                                            Commodity
Rice     Wheat    Jute       Urea       TSP        MP
1.  Projected 1980 World                375       174       371       172       152       65
Market Price
(US$/ton) 1/ 2/
--                  ~~~      ~~~3/  4/
2.  Adjustments for Quality            65-70       90       100       100       100      100
Differentials (Z)
3.  Projected Price Adjusted          244-262    157        371       172       152       65
for Quality (US$/ton)
5/
4.  Shipping Costs to/from                25       40         -        10        30        30
Chittagong (US$/ton)
5.  FOB/CIF Chittagong                269-287    197        371       182       182        95
Price (US$/ton)
6.  Handling and Transport               40        35        50        20        20        20
Costs Between the
Port and the Whole-
sale Market/Main
Godown6 (US$/ton) 6/
7.  Price Ex-Godowns                  309-327    232        321       162       202      115
(US$/ton)
8.  Processing, Handling                  50       35        50        30        35        25
and Transport Costs
Between the Whole-
sale Market/Godown
and the Farm Gate 6/
9.  Farm Gate Price                   259-277    197        271       192       237      140
(US$/ton)
10.  Processing Ratio (Z)                  65      100        85       100       100       100
11.  Farm Gate Price Adjusted          168-180    197        230       192       237      140
for Processing Losses
(US$/ton)
(Tk/md)                            95-100    110        130      110       135        80
1/  Source:  IBRD Price Forecasts dated November 23, 1976.  The forecasts, expressed in
1974 constant dollars have been escalated by 27X to convert them into early 1977
currency values.
2/ Pricing Basis
Rice   :  Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangkok
Wheat      Canadian No. 1 Western Red spring, ex-store Thunder Bay
Jute   :  Bangladesh white D. FOB Chittagong
Urea   :  Bagged, FOB Europe
TSP        Bulk, FOB US Gulf
MP     :  Bulk, FOB Vancouver
3/  For 25-35% broken.  Larger discount for boro and aus crops which are of poorer
quality than the aman crop.
4/  Partially reflects strong consumer preference for rice in Bangladesh.
5/  Assuming Bangladesh would be an exporter and because of proximity to markets in
South Asia would command a price advantage over European suppliers.
6/ Using a SCF of 0.75 for the elements having non-traded goods and services.



Table 8
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Estimated Capital and O&M Cost of a 4-inch Dia. Shallow Tubewell
Item                                                        Cost in Tk
A.    Annualized Capital Costsl  2/
(a)  Engine (Tk 7,500)                                         1,560
(b)  Centrifugal Pump (Tk 3,000)                                 510
(c)  Tubewell Materials (Tk 6,500)                               850
(d)  Installation and Development (Tk 2,500)                     330
Sub-total (A)                                        3,250
B.    Direct O&M Costs
(a)  Pay of Operator, annual lump sum                            500
(b)  Spare Parts at Tk 500 per annum                             500
(c)  Diesel 210 gallons at Tk 9.50 per gallon3!                2,000
(d)  Lub. oil 5 gallons at Tk 50 per gallon                      250
Sub-total (B)                                       3,250
C.    Indirect O&M Costs
(a)  Salaries and Allowances of BADC Staff4/                     700
(b)  Depreciation of Buildings and Structures_5/                 200
(c)  Maintenance of Buildings at 3% of Initial Cost               50
(d)  Depreciation of Workshop Equipment6/                        300
Sub-total (C)                                       1,250
Total O&M Cost (B+C)                                 4,500
D.    Total Annual Cost (A+B+C) for 700 hours of Operation            7,750
E.    Total Cost per hour                                              11.0
of which:  Capital Cost                                          (4.6)
Direct O&M Cost                                      (4.6)
Indirect O&M Cost                                    (1.8)
1/ Figures in parenthesis refer to the estimated initial cost inclusive
of taxes and duties.
2/ Assuming a 12% annual interest rate, a useful life of 7 years for engine,
10 years for pump and 20 years for the tubewell, and assuming 10% scrap
value for the engine, pump and tubewell materials.
3/ Assuming 700 hours of operation per year.
4/ About Tk 20 M per year for a total of about 30,000 LLPs, DTWs and STWs.
5/  Valued at Tk 50 M for 30,000 pumps and tubewells.   Assuming useful life
of 40 years and an annual interest rate of 12%,
6/  Valued at Tk 50 M for 30,000 pumps and tubewells.  Assuming useful life
of 10 years and an annual interest rate of 12%.



BANGLADESH                                            Table 9(a)
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return
(IRDP-Group Owned Tubewell, Cropping Pattern I)
Year and       Investment         Loan and         O&M Cost   Incremental Cost Incremental           Net
Semesterl/       in STW        Debt Service.        of STW_!   of Farm Inputs-i       GVP!/         Flow
Ö __ ________ _               ____ _ _ __-_ ---- (Tk '000)2/ - --- ---------------------------
1 I              (19.5)           17.5               (1.8)           (2.6)           -              (6.4)
II             -               (2.3)             (1.8)           (2.6)           8.3             1.6
2   I             -               (2.3)              (1.8)           (2.6)          8.3             1.6
II             -               (2.3)             (1.8)           (2.6)           8.3             1.6
3   I             _               (2.3)              (1.8)           (2.6)          8.3             1.6
II             -               (2.3)              (1.8)          (2.6)           8.3             1.6
4   I             _               (2.3)              (1.8)           (2.6)          8.3             1.6
II             -               (2.3)              (1.8)          (2.6)           8.3             1.6
5   I             _               (2.3)              (1.8)          (2.6)           8.3             1.6
II             -               (2.3)              (1.8)          (2.6)           8.3             1.6
6   I             -               (2.3)              (1.8)          (2.6)           8.3             1.6
II             -                 -                (1.8)          (2.6)           8.3             3.9
7   I             -                 _                (1.8)           (2.6)          8.3             3.9
II             -                 -               (1.8)           (2.6)           8.3             3.9
8   I             -                 -                (1.8)          (2.6)           8.3             3.9
II             -                                  (1.8)          (2,6)           8.3             3.9
9   I                                                                 -             8.3             8.3
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Semi-annual = 28%
Annual = 65%
1/ Estimated useful life 8 years at 640 hrs/year.
2/ Annual Flows are assumed to be equally divided between the two semesters.
3/ Figures in parenthesis are outflows.



Table 9(b)
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return
(IRDP Group Owned Tubewell, Cropping Pattern II)
Year and,1   Investment          Loan and 2       O&M Cosi1      Incremental Cosi1   Incremental         Net
Semester-       in STW       Debt Service-         of STW-        of Farm Inputs-         GVPI'          Flow
---------------------------------------  (Tk '000) 3/  ----------------------------------
1    I        (19.5 )            17.5              (1.9)             (6.2)                -            (10.1)
II          -                (2.3)             (1.9)             (6.2)             14.1              3.7
2    I           -               (2.3)             (1.9)             (6.2)              14.1             3.7
II          -                (2.3)             (1.9)             (6.2)             14.1              3.7
3    I          -                (2.3)             (1.9)             (6.2)              14.1             3.7
II          -                (2.3)             (1.9)             (6.2)             14.1              3.7
4    I           -               (2.3)             (1.9)              (6.2)             14.1             3.7
II          -                (2.3)             (1.9)             (6.2)             14.1              3.7
5    I           -               (2.3)             (1.9)              (6.2)             14.1             3.7
II          -                (2.3)             (1.9)             (6.2)             14.1              3.7
6    I          -                (2.3)             (1.9)              (6.2)             14.1             3.7
II          -                                  (1.9)             (6.2)             14.1              6.0
7    I          -                                  (1.9)              (6.2)             14.1             6.0
II          -                                  (1.9)             (6.2)             14.1              6.0
8    I           -                                                                      14.1            14.1
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Semi-annual = 37%
annual = 90%
l/ Estimated useful life 7 years at 680 hrs/year.
2/ Annual Flows are assumed to be equally divided between the two semesters.
3/ Figures in parenthesis are outflows.



Table 9 (c)
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return
(IRDP Group Owned Tubewell, Cropping Pattern III)
Year and        Investment        Loan and         O&M Cost    Incremental Cost  Incremental             Net
Semester /        in STW        Debt Service-       of STW-      of Farm Inputsi/       GVP2Z/          Flow
------------------------------------- (Tk '000)_  -------------------------------------
1  II            (19.5)           117.5             (2.3)             (7.0)            1               (11.3)
2            (   -              (2.3)            (2.3)            (7.0)             16.8             5.2
2   I                -             (2.3)            (2.3)             (7.0)            16.8             5.2
II                _             (2.3)            (2.3)            (7.0)             16.8             5.2
3   I                              (2.3)            (2.3)             (7.0)            16.8             5.2
II                -             (2.3)            (2.3)            (7.0)             16.8             5.2
4   r                              (2.3)            (2.3)             (7.0)            16.8             5.2
5I                _             (2.3)            (2.3)            (7.0)             16.8             5.2
5   I                -             (2.3)            (2.3)             (7.0)            16.8             5.2
II                -             (2.3)            (2.3)            (7.0)             16.8             5.2
6   I                              (2.3)            (2.3)             (7.0)            16.8             5.2
II                -                              (2.3)            (7.0)             16.8             7.5
7   I                                                                                  16.8            16.8
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Semi-annual = 46%
Annual = 115%
1/ Estimated useful life 6 years at 820 hrs/year.
2/ Annual Flows are assumed to be equally divided between the two semesters.
3/ Figures in parenthesis are outflows.



Table 10(a)
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1/         Financial Rate of Return
(IndividuaFrOwned Tubewell Purchased on Credit, Cropping Pattern I)
Incremental                    Receipts
Year and      Investment        Loan and        O&H Cost      Cost of P v   Incremental   from Sale           Net
Semeater2/      in STW       Debt Service2/    Of s'TWTk    In uts3/   3/4             1 3  of Water.-'5/   Flow
1 I             (19.5)          15.6            (1.4)            (0.9)           -             -              6.2
II            -               2.1            (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2,1            0.7
2   I             -              2.1            (1.4)            (0.9)          3.0           2.1             0.7
II                            2.1            (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2.1            0.7
3   I            -               2.1            (1.4)            (0.9)          3.0           2.1             0.7
II            -               2.1            (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2.1            0.7
4   I            -               2.1             (1.4)           (0.9)          3.0            2.1            0.7
I1            -               2.1            (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2.1            0.7
5   I            -               2.1            (1.4)            (0.9)          3.0           2.1             0.7
It            -               2.1            (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2.1            0.7
6   1            -               2.1             (1.4)           (0.9)          3.0           2.1             0.7
II            _                              (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2.1            2.8
7   r            _                              (1.4)            (0.9)          3.0           2.1             2.8
II            _                              (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2.1            2.8
8   I            _                              (1.4)            (0.9)          3.0           2.1             2.8
II                                           (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2.1            2.8
9   1            _                               (1.4)           (0.9)          3.0           2.1             2.8
II            _                              (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2.1            2.8
10   I            -                               (1.4)           (0.9)          3.0           2.1             2.8
tI            _                              (1.4)           (0.9)           3.0           2.1            2.8
11   I             -               -               -                -            3.0           2.1             5.1
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Semi-annual - 17Z
Annual - 35Z
1/ Or non-IRDB Group.
2/  Estimated useful life 10 years at 500 hrs/year.
31 Annual flows are assumed to be equally divided between the two semesters.
4/ On 5 ac owned by the tubewell owner.
5/ On 6 ac not owned by the tubewell owner.
6/ Figures in parenthesis are outflovs.



Table 10(b)
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1/        Financial Rate of Return
(Individual Ot'ned Tubewell Purchased on Credit, Cropping Pattern II)
Receipts
Year and      Investment         Loan and         O&M Cost    Incremental Cost  Incremnt al  from Sale              Net
Semester3'      in STW        Debt Service3/~'    of STW32/    of Farm Inpu3/_   GVP3             of Water 3/5/   Flow
---------------------------------------  (Tk  000) 61 ------------------------------------------
I    I           (19.5)           15.6               (1.5)           (2.8)               -            -            (8.2)
II            -               (2.1)              (1.5)          (2.8)              6.4           1.9            1.9
2    I            -                (2.1)             (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4           1.9           1.9
II            -               (2.1)              (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4          1.9            1.9
3    I            -               (2.1)              (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4           1.9           1.9
II            -               (2.1)              (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4          1.9            1.9
4    I            -                (2.1)             (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4           1.9            1.9
II            -               (2.1)              (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4          1.9            1.9
5    I            -                (2.1)             (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4           1.9            1.9
II            -               (2.1)              (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4          1.9            1.9
6    I            -                (2.1)             (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4           1.9            1.9
II            -                 -                (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4          1.9            4.0
7    I            -                 _                (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4           1.9           4.0
II            -                                  (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4          1.9            4.0
8    I             -                 -                (1.5)          (2.8)              6.4           1.9            4.0
II            -                                  (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4          1.9            4.0
9    I            -                 _                (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4           1.9            4.0
II            -                 -                (1.5)           (2.8)              6.4          1.9            4.0
10    I             -                 -                                                   6.4          1.9            8.3
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Semi-annual = 25%
annual = 55%
1/ Or non-IRDP group
Z/ Estimated useful life 9 years at 560 hrs/year.
3/ Annual flows are assumed to be equally divided between the two semesters.
4/ On 5 ac owned by the tubewell owner.
5/ On 4 ac not owned by the tubewell owner.
6/ Figures in parenthesis are outflows.



Table 10 (c)
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
l/         Financial Rate of Return
(Individual Owned Tubewell Purchased on Credit, Cropping Pattern III)
Incremental                    Receipts
Year and      Investment        Loan and           O&M Cost    Cost of Farm  Incremental   from Sale           Net
Semester-       in STW         Debt Service 3/    of STW3/    Inputs 3/ 4/    GVP 3/ 4/    of Water 3/5/   Flow
1  I            (19.5)           15.6               (1.8)           (1.7)            -              -           (7.4)
II              -              (2.1)              (1.8)           (1.7)           4.0            3.5           1.9
2  I              _               (2.1)             (1.8)           (1.7)            4.0           3.5           1.9
II              -              (2.1)              (1.8)           (1.7)           4.0            3.5           1.9
3  I              _               (2.1)             (1.8)           (1.7)            4.0           3.5           1.9
II              -              (2.1)              (1.8)           (1.7)           4.0            3.5           1.9
4  I               _              (2.1)             (1.8)           (1.7)            4.0           3.5           1.9
II              -              (2.1)              (1.8)           (1.7)           4.0            3.5           1.9
5  I              _               (2.1)             (1.8)           (1.7)            4.0           3.5           1.9
II              -               (2.1).            (1.8)           (1.7)            4.0           3.5           1.9
6  I              _                                 (1.8)           (1.7)            4.0           3.5            1.9
II              -                                 (1.8)           (1.7)            4.0           3.5           4.0
7  I              _                                 (1.8)           (1.7)            4.0            3.5          4.0
II              -                                 (1.8)           (1.7)            4.0           3.5           4.0
8  I                                                                                 4.0            3.5           7.5
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Semi-annual = 27%
Annual    60%
11  Or non-IRDP group
TI Estimated useful life 7 years at 670 hr8/year.
3/ Annual flows are assumd to be equally divided between the two semesters.
4/ On 5 ac om'md by the tubewell owner.
S/ On 12 ac not owed by tee tubell owner.
/ FiSures in parenthesie are outflows.



Table 11(a)
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
_         Financial Rate of Return
(Individual Owned Tubewell Purchased on Cash, Cropping Pattern I)
Incremental                      Receipts
Year and        Investment         0&M Cost       Cost of Farm   Incremental    from Sale            Net
Semester2/        in STW            of STW3 /   IjputsgZ       .    G.p.3YZ4      of Waterg 51      Flow
___  ____----   (Tk  6000)                         ___ -
1 I              (19.5)            (1.4)            (0.9)             -              -             21.8
II             -                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
2   r              -               (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2,1             2.8
II             -                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
3   I              -               (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
II             -                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
4   I              -               (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
II             -                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
5   I              -               (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
II             -                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
6   1              _               (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
II             -                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
7   I                              (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
IT             _                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
8   I              -               (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
II             -                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
9   I              -               (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
II             -                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
10   I              -               (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
II             -                (1.4)            (0.9)            3.0            2.1             2.8
11   I              -                 -                -              3.0            2.1             5.1
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Semi-annual - 12%
Annual - 25%
1/ Or non-IRDP Group
2/ Estimated useful life 10 years at 500 hrs/year
3/ Annual flows are assumed to be equally divided between the two semesters.
4/ On 5 ac owned by the tubevell owner.
5/ On 6 ac not owned by the tubewell owner.
6/ Figures in parenthesis are outflows.



Table 11(b)
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1/        Financial Rate of Return
(Individual Owned Tubewell Purchased on Cash, Cropping Pattern II)
Year and      Investment       O&M Cost   Incremental Cost          Incremental    Receipts from                Net
Semesterz!      in STW          of STWI/   of Farm Inputs3/4/         GVP 3/        Sales of Water 3/5/         Flow
----------------------------------------  ((Tk '000)6/  -----------------------------
I     I         (19.5)           (1.5)            (2.8)                  _                  _                  (23.8)
II           -             (1.5)             (2.8)                6.4                1.9                   4.0
2     I           -              (1.5)            (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
II           -             (1.5)             (2.8)                6.4                1.9                    4.0
3     I           -              (1.5)            (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
II           -             (1.5)             (2.8)                 6.4               1.9                    4.0
4     I           -              (1.5)            (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
II           -             (1.5)             (2.8)                 6.4               1.9                    4.0
5     1           -              (1.5)            (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
II           -             (1.5)             (2.8)                 6.4               1.9                    4.0
6     I           -              (1.5)            (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
II           -             (1.5)             (2.8)                 6.4               1.9                    4.0
7     I           -              (1.5)            (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
II           -             (1.5)             (2.8)                 6.4               1.9                    4.0
8     I           -              (1.5)            (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
II           -             (1.5)             (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
9     I           -              (1.5)            (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
II           -             (1.5)             (2.8)                 6.4                1.9                   4.0
10     I           -                                                     6.4                1.9                   8.3
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Semi-annual = 16%
annual = 35%
1/ Or non-IRDP Group.
2/ Estimated useful life 9 years at 560 hrs/year.
3/ Annual flows are assumed to be equally divided between the two semesters.
4/ On 5 ac owned by the tubeweli¢ owner.
5/ On 4 ac not owned by the tubewell owner.
@/ Figures in parenthesis are outflows.



Table 11(c)
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return
(Individual Owned Tubewell Purchased on Cash, Cropping Pattern III)
Year and /      Investment        O&M Cost     Increased Cost    Incremental Receipts from           Net
Semeste; A/      in STW           of STW3/    of Farm Inputs-1'4k   GVP 3/4/ Sale of Water-3/5/   Flow
------------------------------------ (Tk '000)_ ------------------------------------
1   I            (19.5)            (1.8)            (1.7)                             -            (23.0)
II                -            (1.8)             (1.7)           4.0            3.5               4.0
2   I                -             (1.8)            (1.7)            4.0            3.5              4.0
II               -              (1.8)            (1.7)           4.0             3.5              4.0
3   I                _             (1.8)            (1.7)            4.0            3.5              4.0
II               -              (1.8)            (1.7)           4.0            3.5               4.0
4   I                _             (1.8)            (1.7)            4.0            3.5              4.0
II                -            (1.8)             (1.7)           4.0            3.5               4.0
5   I                _             (1.8)            (1.7)            4.0            3.5              4.0
II               -              (1.8)            (1.7)           4.0            3.5               4.0
6   I                -             (1.8)            (1.7)            4.0            3.5              4.0
II               -             (1.8)            (1.7)            4.0            3.5               4.0
7   I                _             (1.8)            (1.7)            4.0            3.5              4.0
II               -             (1.8)             (1.7)           4.0             3.5              4.0
8   I                -                                               4.0            3.5              7.5
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Semi-annual = 16%
Annual = 35%
1/ Or Non-IRDP Group.
2/ Estimated useful life 7 years at 670 hrs/year.
3/ Annual flows are assumed to be equally divided between the two semesters.
4/ On 5 ac owned by the tubewell owner.
5/ On 12 ac not owned by the tubewell owner.
6/ Figures in parenthesis are outflows.



Table 12
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Project Rent and Cost Recovery
Item                               Cropping Pattern I        Cropping Pattern II        Cropping Pattern III
W        W            W       W            W                   W
---------------------------   (Tk/ac)   -----------________________.
Gross Value of Production                 1,070        2,260        1,460        4,035          1,950        3,555
2/
Certainty Equivalent of GVP                 855        2,035        1,240        3,630          1,660        3,200
3/
Cost of Farm Inputs                         740       1,110           920        2,055          1,325        1,990
4/
Management Fee                               75          155           90          270             135         240
Implicit Land Rent                           40          770          230        1,305             200         970
Project Rent                                730                      1,075                         770
Estimated Cost of Irrigation-/                   460                         620                        390
(415)                      (560)                      (350)
Rent Recovery Index (%)                           63                          58                         50
(57)                       (55)                       (45)
1/  W  = Without Project, W  =  With Project.
2/  To reflect the risky nature of rainfed cultivation under without project conditions, certainty equivalent
taken as 80%, 85% and 85% of GVP for cropping patterns I, II and III respectively. The lower figure for
cropping pattern I is due to higher than average risk associated with B. aman crop. With the Project CE
is taken as 90% of GVP for all three cropping patterns.
3/  Excluding irrigation costs.
4/  10% of crop production costs (including irrigation costs).
5/ Figures in parenthesis correspond to the situation where taxes and duties are excluded from the sale
price of the tubewells.



Table 13
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Annual Gross Benefits (Economic)l/
Item                    Price    Production ('000 tons)          Gross Value (Tk M)
(Tk/ton)    _               Incre-                         Incre-
W       W        ment        W         W       ment
Aus Paddy                2,550    15.2      -       (15.2)     38.8       -       (38.8)
Aman Paddy              2,680    96.3    95.1        (1.2)    258.1    254.9       (3.2)
Boro Paddy              2,550      -       77.3      77.3       -       197.1    197.1
Wheat                    2,950     4.5    56.2       51.7      13.3    165.8    152.5
Jute                    3,480      8.3      9.6       1.3      28.9      33.4       4.5
Pulses and Oilseeds    4,020       4.3      2.0      (2.3)     17.3       8.0      (9.3)
Vegetables               1,340     -       39.2      39.2        -       52.5      52.5
Total                                                  356.4    711.7    355.3
Say Tk 355 M
1/  W  =  Without Project, W  =  With Project,  Increment-W-W.



Table 14
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1/
Annual Crop Production Costs (Economic)
Item                   Price            Quantity Used         Production Cost (Tk M)
(Tk/Ton)    v         W    Increment               W    Incraent
Fertilizers (Tons)
Urea                   2,950    3,140   11,040    7,900        9.26    32.57    23.31
TSP                    3,620    1,740    5,850    4,110        6.30    21.18    14.88
MP                     2,140      190    2,890    2,700        0.41      6.18      5.77
Sub-total                          5,070   19,780   14,710       15.97    59.93    43.96
Pesticides (Tons)
Diazinon              18,800        28       52        24      0.53      0.98      0.45
Sumithion             61,600        28       52        24      1.72      3.20      1.48
Sub-total             2/               56      104        48      2.25      4.18      1.93
Farm Labor (M m_days)
Slack Period             3.0     2.97      5.17      2.20      8.91    15.51       6.60
Moderate Period          4.5     5.76    11.55       5.79     25.92    51.98    26.06
Peak Periods             6.0     4.58      4.03    (0.55      27.48    24.18       3.30
Sub-total                          13.31    20.75       7.44     62.31    91.67    29.36
Animal Labor                7.5      3.5      4.6       1.1      26.25    34.50       8.25
(M a-days) 3/
Seed (Tons)                    4/
'YV Paddy              3,000       700    1,300       600       2.10     3.90      1.80
HYV Wheat              3,5005/       -    2,000    2,000           -     7.00      7.00
Local Paddy            2,600/  3,400    1,430   (1,970)        8.84      3.72    (5.12)
Local Wheat            3,000-     300         -      (300)     0.90         -    (0.90)
Jute                   5,000-.      60       60         -      0.30      0.30         -
Pulses & Oilseeds      4,00  /    220       100      (120)     0.88      0.40    (0.48)
Vegetables             1,4:                 560       560         -      0.78      Q,78
Sub-total                                                        13.02    16.10       3.08
Irrigation ( N  hrs)        5.5         -     7.00     7.00           -    38.50    38.50
(O & M Cost) 8/
Miscellaneous                                                      3.32     7.70      4.38
Total                                                     123.12   252.58   129.46
Say Tk 130 M
1/  W     Without Project, W  = With Project, Increment W-W
2/  Price in Tk/m-day.
3/  Price in Tk/a-day.
4/  Assuming 20% replacement.
5/  Assuming 50% replacement.
6/ Approximately same as crop prices.
7/  50% premium over crop price.
8/  Direct and Indirect 0 & M Cost.   Price in Tk/hr.  Financial price of Tk 6.4/hr
adjusted for taxes and duties in diesel, lub oil, spares and workshop equipment
as well as for local expenditures as salaries.



Table 15
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Investment    Adm. & Super-       Incremental Crop       Incremental
Year            Costs       vision Cost  1    Production Costst   Gross Benefits
--------------------------(in Million Tk)Ö----------------------
1               45              4                     13
2               75              4                     52                  35
3               70              4                    91                  142
4               55              4                   130                  248
5                -              4                   130                  355
6                -              4                   130                  355
7                _              4                   117                  355
8                -              4                    78                  319
10                -              4                     39                 213
11                -              -                     -                  106
Economic ROR = 48%
a/ For IRDP and Commercial Banks
b/ Including O&M costs for irrigation facilities.



ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Documents Relating to the Sector/Sub-sector
1.   WB, "Bangladesh:  Land and Water Resources Sector Study, Vol. I-IX",
Report No. PS-13, (December 1972).
2.   WB, "Bangladesh:  Crop Sector Review, Vol. I-IV", Report No. 1063-BD,
(March 1976).
3.   Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, GOB, "Master Survey of Agricul-
ture in Bangladesh (Seventh Round, Second Phase)", (June 1972).
4.   Ministry of Agriculture, GOB, "Bangladesh Agriculture in Statistics",
(November 1973).
5.   Ministry of Agriculture, GOB, "Basic Statistics of Bangladesh
Agriculture", (December 1975).
B.   Documents Relating to the Project
1.  M. Rahman, BADC, "Feasibility Report on a Shallow Tubewells Project
in the North-West", (January 1975).
2.   WB, "Shallow Tubewells Project, Preparation Report", (June 1975).
3.  M. Khyne, WB Consultant:  "A Proposal for Repair and Maintenance
Facilities for Irrigation Equipment in the Northwest Region"
(September 1976).
4.   WB, "Bangladesh:  Appraisal of a Rural Development Project",
Report No. 837a-BD, (April 1976).



IBRD 12391
w >  : 0: E9 5 '51ifS                                                     NWEUtE 9
-HALOW -E -:                    S PROJECT
I"-- 'TA" '   ' k " ""   1' -
N;    'N'K v              t      w,              N "  t L*50
..- - .;>                                                             1+ E  -~  S AtE
20   KILOMETERS(     A  60   B  ,    -?ang ;X sat    D !;
-   1   2   /    "    '    t)  '  "'  t n             0              t|f  r h A f R   T   <  +35  40  \
BAYOF'SONGL                                                     2, MEI L;,  ,S  
9A GYPtJ R 6AL '             ILO0






S~ ~   ~~K  /                                 a    1H      
3:3  C       .)
'3:f                                  f ::   e : 
'3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  :3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



