CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 724 BD
Project Agreement
(Shallow Tubewells Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
JANATA BANK
Dated July 1, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 724 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association)
and JANATA BANK.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between ,-he People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Janata Bank agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAS the Janata Bank, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B.1 the Project
Section 2.01. The Janata Bank:
(a) shall carry out in the Rajshahi and Rangpur Districts
Part B.1 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative, economic and financial
practices; and
(b) shall, for the purpose, provide, out of its own
resources, funds equivalent to 20% of the costs of shallow
tubewells sold to individuals and groups of individuals in
non-IRDP thanas and 30% of the costs of shallow tubewells sold to
IRDP Groups.
Section 2.02. For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of
the Project, the Janata Bank shall:
(a) make loans to Beneficiaries selected in accordance with
the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(as such Schedule may be amended, from time to time, by agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Janata Bank), such
loans to cover (i) up to 80% of the costs of shallow tubewells
sold to individuals and groups of individuals in non-IRDP thanas
and (ii) up to 90% of the costs of shallow tubewells sold to IRDP
Groups, such loans to be amortized over a period not exceeding


﻿five years (including a grace period of not less than six months),
to bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum, and to be secured
by a lien on the shallow tubewells in addition to (A) a mortgage
on at least 2 acres of land with respect to any loan made to any
individual or to any group of individuals in non-IRDP thanas and
(B) promissory notes from TCCAs with respect to loans made to IRDP
Groups;
(b) make available to IRDP Groups not less than 50% of the
number of loans provided under paragraph (b) of this Section;
(c) deposit, from time to time, in the Revolving Fund
referred to in Section 3.13 of the Development Credit Agreement
(i) the funds referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement
and (ii) the repayment monies received from the Beneficiaries,
excluding the amounts required by the Janata Bank to repay to
itself the funds made available to the Beneficiaries under Section
2.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(d) repay to the Borrower interest payments received from
time to time from the Beneficiaries less (i) interest payments
made by the Beneficiaries in respect of the funds made available
to them by the Janata Bank under Section 2.01 (b) of this
Agreement and (ii) the amounts required by the Janata Bank to pay
to itself a service charge at a level to be agreed with the
Association.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.03. (a) The Janata Bank shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Part B.1 of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Janata Bank shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with, the progress of Part B.1 of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Janata
Bank of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. The Janata Bank shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. The Janata Bank shall: (i) have its accounts
established for the purposes uf the Project and its financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not iater
than 3ix months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its accounts and financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Janata Bank and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Janata Bank thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Janata Bank of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so sepcified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex!
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Janata Bank:
Janata Bank
P.O. Box No. 468
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:                     Telex:
JANATABANK                         JB-DAC-840
Dacca


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents fequired or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Janata Bank may be taken or
executed by the Managing Director of the Janata Bank or such
other person or persons as the Board of Directors of the Janata
Bank shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. The Janata Bank shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the
Janata Bank, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by the Janata Bank pursuant to
any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties ..hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
JANATA BANK
By Is/ M. R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Selection of the Beneficiaries
Eligible applicants shall meet, inter alia, the following
eligibility criteria:
(a) they shall have a farm plan indicating use of the
shallow tubewell for irrigating not less than 10 acres;
(b) they shall be located in areas which have been found
suitable for the development of shallow tubewells under Sections
3.06 and 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(c) IRDP Groups shall be members of TCCAs-KSSs selected by
TCCAs-KSSs for which an inventory of all overdue and outstanding
Institutional Debt and land registers have been completed,
provided that members with less than 3 acres each shall own not
less than 50% of the proposed irrigated area; and
(d) individuals and group members shall have paid or
rescheduled all their overdue institutional debts in accordance
with the guidelines established pursuant to Section 4.05 (a) (ii)
of the Development Credit Agreement (Rural Development Project)
dated June 3, 1976 between the Borrower and the Association.


