                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR2876



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-72900)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 16 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                      REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                    FOR A

     SECOND WOMEN’S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT


                               December 20, 2013




Human Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective 00000000)

                    Currency Unit = Peso (PhP)
                       1.00 Peso = US$ 0.02
                      US$ 1.00 = Peso [50]

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 to December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEmOC        Basic Emergency Obstetric Care
BEmONC       Basic Emergency Obstetric Care and Newborn Care
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CEmOC        Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric Care
CEmONC       Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care
CPR          Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
CSR          Contraceptive self-reliance
DOH          Department of Health
HSRA         Health Sector Reform Agenda
ICR          Implementation Completion and Results
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
IMR          Infant Mortality Rate
IL           Investment Loan
IP           Indigenous People
IPDP         Indigenous People’s Development Plan
IUD          Intra Uterine Devices
LGU          Local Government Units
LOGOFIND     Local Government Finance and Development
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MCP          Maternal Care Package
MDG          Millenium Development Goal
MERD         Monitoring, Evaluation, Research and Development
MOA          Memorandum of Agreement
MMR          Maternal Mortality Rate
NHIP         National Health Insurance Program
PBG          Performance Based Grant
PDO          Project Development Objective
PhilHealth   Philippine Health Insurance Corporation
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
QER          Quality Enhancement Review
RHU       Rural Health Unit
RRA       Rapid Results Approach
SP        Sponsored Program
SWHSM     Second Women’s Health and Safe Motherhood
WB        World Bank
WHSM      Women’s Health and Safe Motherhood
WHSM-SP   Women’s Health and Safe Motherhood – Service Package
WHT       Women’s Health Team
TBA       Trained Birth Assistant
USAID     U.S. Agency for International Development


                Vice President: Axel von Trotsenberg
              Country Director: Motoo Konishi
               Sector Manager: Toomas Palu
          Project Team Leader: Roberto Antonio F. Rosadia
             ICR Team Leader: Kumari Vinodhani Navaratne
                              THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

     SECOND WOMEN’S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT




                                                       Contents

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 38
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 40
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 42
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 44
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                        Second Women's
Country:                Philippines              Project Name:          Health & Safe
                                                                        Motherhood
Project ID:             P079628                  L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-72900
ICR Date:               12/20/2013               ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                        REPUBLIC OF THE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                        PHILIPPINES
Original Total
                        USD 16.00M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 10.45M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 16.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/29/2003      Effectiveness:          12/28/2005       12/28/2005
Appraisal:            06/21/2004      Restructuring(s):                        08/16/2010
Approval:             04/21/2005      Mid-term Review:        10/01/2008       10/31/2008
                                      Closing:                06/30/2012       06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory
                        Moderately              Implementing           Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory          Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:           Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     15                  15
Compulsory health finance                                              3                   3
Health                                                                75                  75
Other social services                                                  2                   2
Sub-national government administration                                 5                   5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               14                  14
HIV/AIDS                                                              14                  14
Health system performance                                             29                  29
Population and reproductive health                                    29                  29
Social safety nets                                                    14                  14

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Motoo Konishi                        Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Manager:            Toomas Palu                          Fadia M. Saadah
Project Team Leader:       Roberto Antonio F. Rosadia           Teresa Ho
ICR Team Leader:           Kumari Vinodhani Navaratne
ICR Primary Author:        Kumari Vinodhani Navaratne


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project will contribute to the national goal of improving women's health by:
  1) Demonstrating in selected sites a sustainable, cost-effective model of delivering
health services that increases access of disadvantaged women to acceptable and high
quality reproductive health services and enables them to safely attain their desired
spacing and number of children.
  2) Establishing the core knowledge base and support systems that can facilitate
countrywide replication of the project experience as part of mainstream approaches to
reproductive health care within the framework of the Health Sector Reform Agenda

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values          Target Years
                  % of births delivered by skilled attendant (health professional), either in a facility
Indicator 1 :
                  or at home
Value
                  59.80% (2003 NDHS
quantitative or                               80%                                 88%
                  data), 54% (DOH Data)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                  06/30/2005                          11/30/2013
Comments
                  Average from the 5 intervention provinces using DOH data. DOH Baseline data
(incl. %
                  are as of 2006.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     % of births delivered in a health facility
Value
                  37.50% (2003 NDHS
quantitative or                               75%                                 89.0 %
                  data), 30% (DOH data)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                  06/30/2005                          11/30/2013
Comments
                  Average from the 5 intervention provinces, using DOH data. DOH Baseline data
(incl. %
                  are as of 2006.
achievement)
                  % of deliveries by the poor in BEMOCs and CEMOCs financed through
Indicator 3 :
                  PHILHEALTH Sponsored Program
Value
quantitative or 8% (DOH data)             75%                          33%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  06/30/2005                   11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of deliveries by the poor in BEMOCs and CEMOCs financed through DOH-
Indicator 4 :
                LGU Performance Based Grant
Value
                NA at approval            25%                          81%
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                06/30/2005                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Increase in the contraceptive prevalence rate
Value             46.5% (from the HH
quantitative or   DOH data), 38%             56.5%, 48%                       39%
Qualitative)      (provided by DOH)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                 06/30/2005                       11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  % of RHUs that have not experienced stock outs of pills, injectables and IUDs
Indicator 6 :
                  for past 6 months
Value
quantitative or 16% (DOH data)             100%                               100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   06/30/2005                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        the average was calculated using the 5 provinces data
achievement)
                80% births delivered in a health facility in each project LGU (defined as a
Indicator 7 :
                province)
Value
quantitative or 42% (DOH data)                                  80%           87% (DOH data)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                        09/30/2010    11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The average from all 5 Provinces.
achievement)
                40% of deliveries in BEmONCs in each project LGU (defined as Province)
Indicator 8 :
                financed by PhilHealth Sponsored Program
Value
quantitative or 10%                                             40%           38%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                        09/30/2010    11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Increase in CPR in each project LGU (defined as province) by 10 percentage
Indicator 9 :
                points
Value
quantitative or 35%                                             45%           39.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                        09/30/2010    11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 100% of BEmONCs in each project LGU (defined as province) are PhilHealth
Indicator 10 :
                 accredited for its maternal health care package
Value
quantitative or 9%                                           100%            86%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                     09/30/2010      11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of project LGUs (defined as a province) have passed an ordinance on
Indicator 11 :
                contraceptive self- reliance
Value
quantitative or 36%                                          100%            80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                     09/30/2010      11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of project LGUs (defined as a province) sustaining their enrolment for the
Indicator 12 :
                Philhealth sponsored Program to at least 75% of the city and municipal targets
Value
quantitative or 81%                                          75%             90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                     09/30/2010      11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13 : 100% of BEmONC teams in project LGUs (defined as a province) trained
Value
quantitative or 36%                                          100%            106%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                     09/30/2010      11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                 Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                          Values (from                   Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                       Revised
                                            approval                    Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                           documents)                    Target Years
                 100% of the BEMOCs that have PHILHEALTH accreditation for maternity
Indicator 1 :
                 package
Value
(quantitative   13%                                          100%            70%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                                   09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     50% reduction in the number of normal spontaneous deliveries in CEmOC
Value
(quantitative     23%                                          50%            29%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                                   09/30/2013     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     80% of women who delivered in the past 6 months had birth plans
Value
(quantitative     65%                                          80%            81%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                                   09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  100% of FP users and ante-natal clients screened for STI according to prescribed
Indicator 4 :
                  protocol Grant
Value
(quantitative   59%                                           100%          87%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010    11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Value is the average of FP and ANC clients screened.
achievement)
                70% of women who know the 3 ways (abstain, be faithful, consistent and correct
Indicator 5 :
                condom use) of preventing the sexual transmission of HIV
Value
(quantitative   39%                                           70%           55%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010    11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        FP clients using hormonal, barrier methods are screened during history taking
achievement)
                Increase to 16% from baseline the total proportion of women or their partners
Indicator 6 :
                using permanent FP methods
Value
(quantitative   2.4%                                          16%           4%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 : 70% of non-poor FP clients paying for contraceptives (may be paying through
               private sector providers or suppliers or through user chargers in the public
               facilities)
Value
(quantitative   40%                                           70%            70%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Increase LGU enrollment for the PhilHealth Sponsored Program coverage and
Indicator 8 : sustain to at least 75% of the target poor households at the municipal and city
                level
Value
(quantitative   82%                                           75%            88%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of BEmOCs share maternal care revenues with WHT according to
Indicator 9 :
                guidelines
Value
(quantitative   39%                                           100%           47%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Inclusion of WHSM standards in the Sentrong Sigla accreditation criteria
Value
(quantitative   Not included                                                 Included
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                                     11/30/2013
Comments
                The Sentrong Sigla has been replaced by Philhealth accreditation and the WHSM
(incl. %
                standards are included in PhilHealth accreditation criteria.
achievement)
                First edition of WHSM services guidelines for LGUs and local WHSM teams
Indicator 11 :
                disseminated and used by LGU managers and WHSM teams
Value
(quantitative   Not prepared                                                 Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                                                     12/31/2007
Comments
                Service guidelines launched and disseminated in 2006 and SWHSM
(incl. %
                Implementation Guidelines launched and disseminated in 2007.
achievement)
                80% of WHT, BEmOC and CEmOC teams have completed training on the
Indicator 12 :
                integrated WHSM-SP
Value           Not carried out                                              Completed
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                                                     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of LGUs in project sites use routinely collected WHSM-SP monitoring
Indicator 13 :
                and evaluation data (including maternal death reviews) in their annual plans
Value
(quantitative   None                                                         100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                                                     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Selected innovative elements of project documented and impact measured with
Indicator 14 :
                results used for scaling up
Value
                                                                             Some operations
(quantitative   Not carried out
                                                                             research carried out
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                                                     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/09/2005           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     02/14/2006           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       0.38
  3     05/21/2006           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                0.38
  4     03/21/2007           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                0.43
  5     11/04/2007           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                0.63
                                                       Moderately
  6     02/13/2008     Moderately Satisfactory                                            0.63
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
  7     07/03/2008     Moderately Satisfactory                                            0.74
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
  8     12/14/2008     Moderately Satisfactory                                            0.88
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
  9     02/13/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                            1.01
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
 10     08/11/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                            1.45
                                                     Unsatisfactory
 11     01/04/2010     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 2.07
 12     11/17/2010     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 3.59
 13    08/13/2011       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             4.80
 14    09/23/2012   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             7.96
                         Moderately              Moderately
 15    03/17/2013                                                               8.57
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
 16    06/25/2013                                                               8.94
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The restructured design will
                                                     eliminate sub-project financing
                                                     for LGU-level civil works and
                                                     equipment with the project
                                                     financing focusing on the
                                                     organization and the training of
                                                     health personnel, and
                                                     the operationalization of support
                                                     systems for the delivery of
                                                     WHSM services through
                                                     performance-based
                                                     grants. The 1.5 million USD
                                                     originally allocated for sub-
                                                     project financing and 200,000
                                                     USD from the
                                                     unallocated portion of the loan
                                                     was re-allocated to the
 08/16/2010       N       MS    MS            2.55
                                                     performance-based grants.
                                                     Although there will be
                                                     other re-allocations across the
                                                     other project categories, this re-
                                                     allocation is the most
                                                     substantial of all the
                                                     reallocations.
                                                     The re-alignment of the project
                                                     to support the national policy
                                                     will have the re-structured
                                                     project
                                                     funding the national scale up of
                                                     behavioral change
                                                     communication interventions,
                                                     upgrading of
                                                     government training capacity,
                                                     and investments in blood supply
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     systems.




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context

At appraisal of the Second Women’s Health and Safe Motherhood (SWHSM) project in
2005, the Philippines reported a maternal mortality rate of 180 per 100,000 live births
(1995), a total fertility rate of 3.5 children per woman, contraceptive prevalence of 49%
(2003) and a population growth rate of 2.36% per year (1995 -2000).

Women’s health services are provided through a network of health facilities managed
both by the private and public sectors. In the early 1990s, the Government devolved the
health sector to Local Government Units (LGUs) to improve the targeting of services to
the most needy populations. At this time, the public sector services were increasingly
‘less free’ to the population and around the same time a national health insurance
program (NHIP) was started with the establishment of the Philippine Health Insurance
Corporation (PhilHealth) to ensure universal access to services. The Sponsored Program
(SP) of NHIP offered fully subsidized membership premiums for the poor from the early
1990s, but this program took off only in 2001, and even at appraisal the uptake of the
services by the poor had been low due to the various reasons including the difficulties
faced by the poor to pay the co-payments required by the providers. Furthermore, many
health facilities were unable to gain accreditation from the PhilHealth.

Women’s health services to ensure safe motherhood was addressed through a series of
policies and strategies in the Philippines which evolved from providing services through
Trained Birth Assistants (TBAs) at the home of mothers to hospital based deliveries. The
SWHSM project envisaged that in selected sites, all pregnant women would deliver in
hospitals, a strategic change from what was carried out under the First Women’s Health
and Safe Motherhood (FWHSM) project. Challenges of managing the service delivery
package and in providing the supporting systems were expected and measures were to be
taken to address them under the project.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

The first bank supported Women’s Health and Safe Motherhood Project supported a risk
based strategy where pregnant women delivered mainly at home under the guidance of
TBAs. As this approach did not observe the expected results it was agreed that the
SWHSM project should support a package of facility-based services to improve maternal
mortality outcomes in selected areas of the Philippines. The Bank was requested to bring
in technical assistance to develop a cost effective package of services and to ensure
financing of this pilot intervention.

Link to Country Assistance strategy

The project objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and
its two critical paths: achieve poverty-reducing growth and ensure that the poor



                                           1
participate and benefit from development. Furthermore, the project was supporting the
CAS objective of empowering the poor by improving investments in human development
and in ensuring access by the poor with a particular focus on increasing the utilization of
and satisfaction with the quality of health care services provided especially among the
low income households.



1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the project was to contribute to the national goal of
improving women's health by:

   a. Demonstrating in selected sites a sustainable, cost-effective model of delivering
      health services that increases access of disadvantaged women to acceptable and
      high quality reproductive health services and enables them to safely attain their
      desired spacing and number of children.

   b. Establishing the core knowledge base and support systems that can facilitate
      countrywide replication of the project experience as part of mainstream
      approaches to reproductive health care within the framework of the Health Sector
      Reform Agenda

The following were the original performance indicators at the time of Board approval:

   •   % of births delivered by skilled attendant (health professional) either in facility or
       at home
   •   % of births delivered in a health facility
   •   % of deliveries by the poor in Basic Emergency Obstetric Care (BEmOC) and
       Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric care (CEmOC) facilities financed through
       PhilHealth Sponsored Program
   •   % of deliveries by the poor in BEmOCs and CEmOCs financed through DOH –
       LGU Performance Based Grant
   •   Increase in the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR)
   •   % of Rural Health Units (RHUs) that have not experienced stock outs of pills,
       injectables and Intra Uterine Devices (IUDs) for past 6 months

These performance indicator targets were in the first phase to be achieved by the LGU
beneficiaries of Sorsogon, Surigao del Sur Provinces and Iloilo City. These targets were
based on baseline statistics drawn from national level estimates. These targets were to be
adjusted with the agreement of the World Bank upon the completion of the baseline
survey. Furthermore, newer targets were to be set for the Phase two provinces, at lower
levels for other LGU beneficiaries which were expected to start implementation later into
project’s implementation in 2007.




                                             2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Project was restructured (Level II) in September 2010. The original PDO was
retained with a few changes to the PDO indicators as follows.

   •    80% births delivered in a health facility in each project LGU (Project LGU is
        defined as each province)
   •    40% of deliveries in Basic Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (BEmONCs)
        in each project LGU is financed by PhilHealth Sponsored Program
   •    Increase in CPR in each project LGU by 10 percentage points
   •    100% of BEmONCs in each project LGU are PhilHealth accredited for its
        maternal health care package
   •    100% of project LGUs have passed an ordinance on contraceptive self- reliance
   •    % of project LGUs sustaining their enrolment for the PhilHealth sponsored
        Program to at least 75% of the city and municipal targets
    •   100% of BEmONC teams in project LGUs trained

The original PDO indicators were revised to better align with the Government’s strategy
to reduce maternal and newborn mortality.

But at restructuring, the targets for the 3 new provinces were not defined and the original
measurements for the indicators were also not updated based on the baseline survey
findings (which was available by February 2008) as mentioned in the original Loan
Agreement.

The project continued to monitor both sets of indicators – 6 of the original indicators and
the 7 revised indicators (the data sheet lists the original 6 indicators first while the revised
indicators are numbered from 7-13).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Primary target group under the project includes the disadvantaged women living in
project demonstration provinces. The disadvantaged group of women includes the
women in families belonging to the PhilHealth Sponsored Program and the LGU
identified indigents. The project also intended to work with the service providers through
the Department of Health (DOH) by building their capacity to provide the required
maternal care services to the target populations in the demonstration sites and to the
wider population of women in the reproductive age group living across the Philippines.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component A: Local delivery of the Integrated Women’s Health and Safe Motherhood
Service Package (WHSM-SP) (appraisal estimate USD13.4 million; actual USD 5.19
million). This component was planned as two sub components 1 and 2.




                                               3
Sub component 1 planned to:
(a) develop and enhance the capacity of the LGU beneficiaries to establish and operate a
network of providers of the WHSM SP, including teams for women’s health, basic
obstetric care, comprehensive obstetric care, adolescent and youth health, and itinerant
teams through the provision of (i) sub project financing for goods and works for LGU
owned facilities; and (ii) goods and works for DOH-owned facilities; and (iii) consultant
services, training and workshops.
(b) to assist LGUs in the development and implementation of cost effective and
sustainable approaches to reach three high risk groups: female sex workers, returning
overseas workers and young adults.

Sub component 2 planned to establish and operate reliable and sustainable systems for
the delivery of WHSM-Service Package included;

(a) drug and procurement security , through the provision of goods and services for (i) the
establishment of efficient province and city wide logistics planning, management and
procurement systems, (ii) the segmentation of local markets for appropriate targeting of
subsidized financing and free distribution of contraceptives and (iii) complementary
establishment or expansion of social marketing initiatives for contraceptives;
(b) safe blood supply through the provision and services for the setting up of a network of
blood service facilities at different levels of the health care system.
(c) behavior change interventions through: (i) pilot testing of performance based grants to
selected LGUs, health service providers and users; (ii) the provision of goods and
services for advocacy, communications and information dissemination
(d) sustainable financing of local WHSM services and related commodities through (i)
increased LGU financing and increased revenues from PhilHealth benefit payments and
(ii) application of a market segmentation mechanism that would allow LGU beneficiaries
to raise user charges from non-poor clients and encourage use of WHSM services by
eligible poor clients through grants and awards.

Component B: National capacity to sustain WHSM services (appraisal estimate USD
2.5 million; actual USD 5.10 million). This component had 4 sub components;

(1) develop, adopt and implement operational and regulatory guidelines for the provision
and use of WHSM services.
(2) develop a network of training providers that are accredited to provide courses on: (a)
appropriate delivery of the integrated WHSM–SP; and (b) team work and collaboration
for the various types of WHSM teams.
(3) (a) develop a system to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the WHSM – SP
and publicly disseminate the monitoring and evaluation of results; (b) carry out project
baseline and impact evaluation studies; and (c) support policy and operations research on
WHSM
(4) establish and maintain project management capacity at the national and at the local
level.


1.6 Revised Components


                                            4
The project which was restructured on September 30, 2010, included a few changes
within the original components;

   •   The Subproject Financing for goods and works for LGU owned facilities which
       had an allocation of USD 1.5 million was removed.
   •   The section on providing sustainable financing of local WHSM services and
       commodities through (ii) the application of a market segmentation mechanism
       was removed.
   •   The originally allocated expenditures to the sub project financing (USD 1.5
       million) and a USD 0.2 million from the unallocated funds at the beginning of the
       project were reallocated to the PBGs.
   •   Training facilities were expanded to include out of project sites but the allocation
       was reduced to USD 1,500,000 from USD 1,700,000.
   •   Allocation for PBGs provided to the LGUs, beneficiaries and service providers
       was increased from USD 3.3 million to USD 5 million. Also, the financing
       mechanism was changed from providing advances to reimbursements of the PBGs.

An extension of the closing date from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2013 was approved.

1.7 Other significant changes
None

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation
The project was formulated based on the request of the Government of the Philippines to
support WHSM initiatives to achieve rapid improvements in maternal health related
outcomes. Even though the first WHSM project, which was partly supported by the
World Bank, had an unsatisfactory implementation progress there still was a need to find
an appropriate solution to address maternal health outcomes. The second WHSM project
was designed to demonstrate a new approach of facility based deliveries for all mothers
in the selected demonstration sites. But this demonstration meant that nearly all the
hospitals including the Rural Health Units (RHUs) in the demonstration provinces had to
be accredited by PhilHealth to perform BEmOC services when at the time of project
preparation (2005) nearly none of the RHUs managed by the Local Governments across
the Philippines had been accredited by PhilHealth for a Maternal Care Package (MCP).

Project preparation was carried out in consultation with other partners involved in
supporting health services in the Philippines. But the World Bank was one of the first
donors to support the Health Sector Reform Agenda (HSRA) and the first to back the
DOH strategy to link reforms in a key national program like the WHSM to the HSRA
framework.



                                            5
Project Design
The project relied on the use of government systems, incorporating the devolution of
health services to the LGUs in the Philippines. The project intended to introduce a new
MCP at selected provinces (initially 3 and later to scale up to 6 provinces from a total of
80 provinces in the Philippines). The project had two components where the first
component was the implementation of the MCP and the other component was to provide
the LGUs with the necessary capacity building to implement the MCP and to scale up the
intervention across the country. The project was to be implemented by the respective
LGUs in each of the demonstration provinces and the DOH. In addition, the LGUs in the
first set of provinces were also required to work with another ongoing World Bank
financed project called Local Government Finance and Development (LOGOFIND).

Risk analysis and lessons applied during project preparation
A quality enhancement review (QER) was not carried out at preparation. But following
the FWHSM project, the World Bank’s Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)
recommendations had highlighted; (i) the need to involve the LGUs as active partners in
project preparation, implementation and monitoring; (ii) to establish a professional
project management office; (iii) to resolve fundamental cross cutting management issues
related to financial management, procurement and human resource management.

In addition, the team identified many critical risks and possible controversial aspects
which included; (i) complex governance structure of the health sector involving the DOH,
LGUs and PhilHealth with weak coordination, (ii) strategies selected for the WHSM-SP
delivery and financing included both untested and new initiatives which may become
technically inappropriate or ineffective, (iii) insufficient project management and
technical capacity at DOH and LGU levels to lead project activities, (iv) complicated
project management arrangements for batch one sites as the DOH and the LGUs as they
also were to coordinate with the LOGOFIND team, (v) likely delays in fund flow by
national government and LGUs for project implementation, (vi) possible collapse in
contraceptive supplies if LGU financing did not materialize in an environment where the
National Government did not purchase contraceptives for LGUs, (vii) difficulties in
placing and retaining skilled staff for WHSM teams. The project at preparation had an
overall risk rating of substantial.

The design team attempted to address these issues by including the following mitigation
measures in the risk analysis of the project; (i) a MCP was only to be introduced in a few
provinces with clear cut tasks to achieve project deliverables; (ii) highlighting the soft
interventions through capacity building; (iii) by having a detailed plan for monitoring,
supervision and financing arrangements;, (iv) by phasing the interventions to batch one
and two provinces to allow adequate time for learning from the batch one sites; (v) to
secure the project budget in the DOH and LGU budget plans; (vi) to create a drugs for
commodities swap to address contraceptive availability; (vii) technical assistance to
improve human resource planning and management capacity.

The design team also mitigated the risks by introducing conditions of effectiveness. The
effectiveness conditions included; (i) issuance of a PhilHealth Board policy statement



                                            6
supporting the national WHSM package and authorizing piloting of various measures in
the project sites supporting WHSM; (ii) all LGUs in the batch one provinces were
required to make an initial deposit of 3 months of counterpart funds into their newly
opened project accounts (iii) the Project Implementation Plan, (PIP), Procurement
Implementation and Financial management Manual were to be adopted, (iv) signed
subproject loan agreements under the LOGOFIND project for the batch one project sites,
(v) ratified environment and waste management operating guidelines, environmental
assessment report, indigenous peoples (IP) strategy, indigenous people’s development
plan (IPDP) and resettlement policy framework in the batch one demonstration provinces.

The project design required the DOH to sign a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with
all LGUs (there are approximately 18 LGUs on average in each province) in the
demonstration provinces. The LGUs also had to open bank accounts to receive funds
from the DOH for the Performance Based Grants (PBGs) and to transfer funds from the
LGUs as counterpart funds for expenses that were to be managed by the provinces.
Furthermore, in addition to the MCP intervention which was new to the LGUs in the
demonstration provinces, the project tried to also introduce a new mechanism of
financing with the introduction of PBGs for some of the interventions proposed in the
MCP. In addition, encouraging contraceptive self-reliance (CSR) by LGUs was the
feasible but risky intervention especially because there was a ban on the use of National
Government funds to procure family planning commodities. Therefore, designing the
project to include CSR by the LGUs encouraged by the DOH with an incentive of
providing a matching grant for the cost incurred to secure CSR for life saving drugs was
expected to address this issue. These measures created a complex project design from the
beginning of the project.

The proposed project intervention had high ownership at the DOH and LGU levels. The
project was planned to be implemented under the leadership and management of the
DOH in close collaboration with the LGUs, which had the decision-making powers.

Lending Instrument
The project was financed using a Specific Investment Loan (SIL). A SIL was used as the
project attempted to introduce a new intervention that had to break through cultural,
political and behavioral challenges, which was implemented in a highly devolved
environment. The team argued that this required continuous focused attention and
coordinated action at different levels of government and this was best possible using a
SIL.


2.2 Implementation

Initiatives taken to encourage facility based deliveries
Many initiatives were taken to pilot the behavior change from a home delivery to a
facility-based delivery. Initially the DOH increased the advocacy for this change through
the Regional and the Provincial Health Offices in the pilot provinces on the advantage of
providing facility-based services for mothers delivering babies in their health facilities.
Thereafter, the LGUs were encouraged to get their RHUs accredited by PhilHealth for


                                            7
providing the MCP services. This resulted in high rates of the MCP accreditation of LGU
health facilities (from a total of 84 LGUs in all 5 pilot provinces) to nearly more than 60
LGUs at the time of project closure. The LGUs were also encouraged to establish
Women’s Health teams (WHTs) whose membership included the TBAs and other health
volunteers in the community. Nearly all the LGUs, at time of project closure, had created
WHTs whose main role was to provide the important linkage with the facility and the
home so that women would want to come to the facility for their delivery. With the
introduction of PBGs for establishing the WHTs in each village, encouragement of
PhilHealth accreditation for MCP and the allowances provided to the mother herself by
the LGUs for using a facility for delivery, both demand side and supply side interventions
were introduced under the project. At the end of the project, it was noted that on average
a 45% increase in health facility delivery during the project period.

Factors that contributed to successful implementation:

DOH and LGU ownership:
The DOH was much committed to demonstrating the benefit of encouraging facility-
based deliveries in the Philippines especially as there were diverse views to the likelihood
of success of this approach of encouraging facility-based deliveries. The DOH took this
up as a challenge and used the SWHSM project to pilot this initiative. The DOH
successfully created the demand for encouraging facility-based deliveries with the LGUs.

PhilHealth accreditation:
Even though PhilHealth was established in 1995, PhilHealth usage was low for MCP
services in the Philippines at the time of project initiation in 2006 as most facilities were
not accredited for these services. With the planned pilot in the demonstration provinces,
PhilHealth was required to create an accreditation process for the MCP the same time.
This was most important as the project also attempted to make services accessible to the
indigent populations of the demonstration provinces. The LGUs also benefited to register
more poor populations as the PBGs and the PhilHealth payments were made available to
them.

BEmONC / BEmOC services in health facilities:
At time of project initiation, most of the RHUs and other district level health facilities
were not equipped to provide BEmOC (later on expanded to Basic Emergency Obstetric
and Newborn Care services (BEmONC). PhilHealth accreditation required certification
of staff trained in BEmONC services. As a response to this, the DOH was able to initiate
the development of teams of experts to carry out the required training. At the end of the
project nearly 100% of the health facility teams were trained on BEmONC services.
Furthermore, the project was able to establish a total of 29 training centers (project
requirement was just 5) all over the country that provided BEmONC training to include
all other non-project provinces across the Philippines.

Infrastructure development of facilities:
The project had included a partnership with another ongoing project supported by the
World Bank - the LOGOFIND project - to support the civil works required in the
facilities in the batch one demonstration provinces. Even though at the initial stages these


                                             8
funds were utilized, it was noted that towards the second half of the project
implementation, the SWHSM Project seem to have been a catalyst for attracting many
other grant funding sources. Therefore, even though the original allocations under the
SWHSM project for civil works were not utilized, the LGUs had adequate resources
throughout the project period to improve their health facilities.

PBGs:
PBGs were introduced as a pilot for the first time under the SWHSM project. PBGs were
linked to the achievement of (i) the establishment of Women’s Health Teams (WHT) in
each village (Barangay), (ii) facilitation of LGU enrollment in the PhilHealth sponsored
program for MCP services (iii) encouragement of LGU financing of family planning and
essential drug (commodity) inputs. It is noted that this new approach of incentivizing for
these results were able to help stimulate the behavior change required thus increasing
facility-based deliveries in the pilot provinces.

IEC approaches taken to change behavior towards facility deliveries:
The DOH and the LGUs had to change the behavior of the communities who traditionally
preferred home-based deliveries. The interventions introduced through the WHTs, the
advocacy programs with the LGUs, communities, and the communication messaging
were noted to have helped the reported increase in facility-based deliveries in the
demonstration provinces.

WHTs:
The establishment of WHT’s in approximately every village in the demonstration
province, whose membership included the TBAs and other women volunteers from the
community, were instrumental in moving from home-based delivery to a facility-based
delivery in the demonstration provinces. Furthermore, they are still functioning as the
link between the community and the facility and also help improve the quality of care
given to the pregnant mothers by improving pregnancy tracking, encouraging 4 Antenatal
visits during pregnancy and by helping data reporting by sending mobile updates of all
pregnant women in the community to the area midwife in the LGUs.


Factors that gave rise to delays in project implementation

Conditions of effectiveness and delays with project implementation:
With initial implementation of the project, major delays occurred in getting most of the
conditions of effectiveness (described in section 2.1). Even though the condition of
effectiveness related to LGUs in the phase one provinces were required to make an initial
deposit of 3 months of counterpart funds into their newly opened project accounts were
not met, on 28 December 2005 the project was made effective with an exemption issued
by the World Bank. This particular condition of effectiveness, which was essential for
successful project implementation, got completed late into project life which continued to
delay implementation. The project activities effectively started only in late 2007, which
delayed the start up activities of the project by more than one year.




                                            9
Policy changes related to pilot and scale up of WHSM services:
The project intended to introduce the Women’s Health and Safe Motherhood–Service
Package (WHSM-SP) in two phases. The phase one was expected to include 3 provinces
that were selected on maternal mortality rate (MMR), infant mortality rate (IMR),
contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) levels, population size, and interest of LGUs to
introduce a WHSM package. But, very early on during project implementation, when one
of the identified provinces opted out, the DOH and the World Bank (WB) have agreed to
use only 2 provinces (Sorsogon and Surigao del Sur) as the phase one provinces in the
demonstration pilot.

Just at the same time as the new WHSM-SP was getting introduced in the phase one
demonstration sites, the Government in 2006, incorporated the Batch one provinces to the
Fourmula One for Health (F1) strategy which had many similarities to the WHSM-SP
but not the full package identified in the project. In addition, in 2009, with some
successful interventions seen in the demonstration sites under phase one provinces, but
without any evaluations, the Government issued an Administrative Order to scale up and
expand the facility-based interventions for MCP (which also newly included New Born
care) across the country. This scale up excluded interventions for family planning,
overseas Filipino workers, and STI prevention.

The phase two provinces (Albay, Catanduanes, and Masbate) which started the pilot in
2010, may not have got the attention required both from the DOH and the LGUs to run
the full pilot intervention package as by then the scale up to all provinces had also taken
place. This reason led to the reduced services introduced at all demonstration provinces
from what was planned as the WHSM-SP at the beginning of the project.

WHSM-SP:
The project was most ambitious to try out a comprehensive package of services as a pilot
intervention in 6 provinces of the Philippines. None of the demonstration provinces
introduced the complete WHSM-SP during the project period. Among them interventions
for the freelance sex workers, returning overseas workers and young adults were never
initiated. In addition, drug and contraceptive security initiatives were initiated in much
lower scale. Behaviour change communication programs for encouraging contraceptive
usage were not initiated. Similarly, impact evaluations, operations research and the end
line survey were not carried out. In addition, the BEmOC package that was later
expanded to be a BEmONC package only included 3 (provision of oxytocin, steroids and
neo-natal resuscitation) of the globally accepted 6 signal functions (manual removal of
products of conception, parental administration of anti-convulsants and performing
assisted vaginal delivery, administration of uterotonic drugs, anti-convulsants and
antibiotics, and neo-natal resuscitation).

Implementation capacity of the DOH:
Even though the DOH has had experience in carrying out WB-financed operations,
implementation capacity was somewhat weak as the project required many transactions
with many LGUs in parallel. The required human resources, i.e. Procurement and
Financial Management specialists, and Monitoring and Evaluation Specialists; were not



                                            10
hired as planned due to procurement delays and also due to changes made by the DOH.
The tasks of managing the training requirement for the country along with the behaviour
change communications that were required to be done through consultancies were later
decided to be managed by the DOH that created a higher demand on the DOH existing
capacity. This resulted in the DOH’s inability to systematically implement lessons
learned during the implementation phase and to institute the necessary changes for
improvement. Furthermore, the monitoring and evaluation capacity, procurement and
financial management capacity continued to be issues throughout the project
implementation period.

Implementation capacity of the LGUs:
Even though the LGUs were involved from project design stage difficulties arose with
the implementation of the LGU activities and reporting back of expenditures related to
activities, especially the PBGs, carried out by them. The project team faced many
obstacles with regard to procurement and financing processes at the LGU level. The
proposed mitigation measures were also not adhered to during the project’s
implementation period.

PBGs:
While the PBGs were instrumental in creating the much required WHTs and in
facilitating the behaviour change towards using facilities for delivery and in encouraging
LGU enrollment in the PhilHealth Sponsored Program it was not successful in
encouraging LGU financing of commodity inputs. The use of PBGs in the health sector
at the level of the LGU was a new initiative that faced constraints when creating budget
lines and reporting expenses to the DOH and therefore faced many liquidation issues
throughout project implementation. Furthermore, there was no validation mechanism
established to verify the results against which the payments were made under this
component. Therefore, even though this approach of using PBGs achieved good results
the process faced many obstacles and was too complicated which delayed transactions
with the LGUs.

Hiring of consultants:
The DOH faced many obstacles in hiring and managing consultants – both individuals
and firms - throughout the project period. The hiring of the required additional
consultants for Monitoring and Evaluation, Procurement and Financial Management were
not carried out and eventually the DOH staff ended up managing these tasks. In addition,
some of the firms that were to be contracted for behaviour change communication and
human resource development were not awarded as the DOH felt that they had the
required competencies to manage these tasks. The end line survey and the other
efficiency studies were never awarded due to delayed procurement processing.

Mid-term review:
The mid-term review was conducted in October 2008 at 2.5 years into implementation
when disbursement was only just over 5% of the project funds and the project was rated
moderately unsatisfactory. But the mid-term review recommendations were mainly to




                                           11
introduce a rapid results approach which reviewed milestones every 100 days and a few
reallocations but did not cancel funds even though originally considered by the team.


Restructuring and project extension:
Even though from as early as 2007, restructuring and even cancellation of funds were
discussed, the project underwent only one Level II Restructuring in September 2010,
which was by then 5 years into project implementation. It seems that the restructuring
was more a ‘corrective restructuring’ while this late restructuring should have been an
‘adaptive restructuring’ as the interventions piloted in the first phase were scaled up to all
provinces from 2009 onwards, just prior to the formal restructuring of the project.

The team requested a project extension to support the scale up of interventions proposed
by the Government. As the WHSM–SP interventions identified in the original pilot were
never fully piloted, the restructuring should have also attempted to improve the
modalities of improving the service package.

Reallocations:
The restructuring process included requesting reallocations from non-performing
components to better performing components. Therefore excess funds available from
civil works (as the LGUs by then had received many other sources of funds for
refurbishing and improving the health facilities) were moved to the PBGs category. The
modalities of reporting and other issues related to processes for managing PBGs were
addressed by moving from providing advances to LGUs to reimbursement to LGUs at
restructuring. But the utilization of this allocation was lower than expected at time of
project closure and the reporting back of expenses continued to be delayed.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation Design:
The M&E of the project was to be managed under the monitoring, evaluation, research
and dissemination component headed by an M &E specialist contracted under the project.
The following sources of data were to be used; (i) regular assessments of inputs and
processes related to the Project Development Objective and sub components, (ii) semi-
annual reporting of service delivery performance, (iii) survey data from a baseline and
end line surveys with comparison groups, (iv) operations research studies that were
supposed to evaluate the effectiveness of innovations introduced under the project, (v)
mechanisms for dissemination of results to support evidence based management.

All six PDO indicators identified for the project were relevant and appropriate. These
included indicators to assess the effect of the WHSM-SP in the demonstration sites. But
the measurements of these results, as the project was designed to demonstrate
effectiveness of a package of services, were relying on baseline and end line surveys and
other applied surveys. The revised PDO indicators had fine-tuned the original PDO
indicators, also added one new indicator on BEmONC training and removed the section
of the indicators related to CEmOCs. The revised PDO indicators also attempted to get


                                             12
data by each LGU level. Only 3 of the original 6 PDO indicators had a baseline value
from a survey even though targets had been provided for all PDO indicators.

The intermediate indicators included in the project were many (14 indicators) that were
also all related to the WHSM-SP. But nearly none of them had any baseline values at
project approval. Most of them were not removed or edited during restructuring of the
project. Furthermore, the monitoring and supervision plan was not updated/followed by
the bank and project teams.

Monitoring and Evaluation- Implementation

Monitoring, Evaluation, Research and Development (MERD) Specialist:
The project was expected to hire the services of a MERD specialist but this post was not
filled throughout most of the project implementation period. Furthermore, the Baseline
survey result that was supposed to provide baseline data was made available in February
2008, 2.5 years into project effectiveness. The team also did not come up with an
alternative arrangement for result monitoring at restructuring and only edited the original
PDO indicators. The end line survey for the project was never carried out. Furthermore,
the original and restructured indicators were not regularly updated even with alternative
sources of data.

Evaluation reports:

With the project’s successful implementation of the batch one provinces, USAID and
other development partners including the WB team, have carried out a few evaluation
studies 1 on the WHSM-SP interventions and its effect on improving the health system
and on the successes reported with the introduction of the PBGs for the establishment of
WHTs at the village levels. This study highlighted that a systems approach to addressing
maternal health shows synergistic positive effects.


Rapid Results Approach:
The project team introduced the Rapid Results Approach (RRA) in about 2009/10 when
project implementation was struggling to take off. The technique of planning for
achieving a result with clear milestones that need to be monitored throughout a 100 day
period seem to have helped improve project implementation from 2010 onwards.
Disbursement which was around 5% in 2008 and 18% in 2010 at restructuring improved
with this monitoring approach. The provinces continue to use this process even as the
project has closed.

Monitoring and Evaluation – Utilization



1
    The paper on ‘ A systems approach to improving maternal health in the Philippines’ was published in the Bulletin of the World
Health Organization in 2012 was carried out by Dale Huntington, Eduardo Banzon, and Zeneida Dy Recidoro.




                                                                   13
Minimal mechanisms were in place for utilization of data for planning and monitoring
even though this project was planned as a demonstration pilot. The main data source that
was used to review progress during project implementation was service level data. To
support and validate this data, the baseline and end line surveys were recommended to be
carried out in time. The DOH was also supposed to carry out applied surveys to provide
further insight to the effects of the project intervention. While the baseline survey was
carried out (though much later than planned) the end line survey was never carried out.
Thus, at the end of the project, the pilot intervention was not evaluated well enough. The
teams also did not utilize the baseline data to adjust the planned results targets of the
project as agreed in the loan agreement. But the observed increase in facility based
deliveries in batch one provinces influenced the government when they decided to scale
up the intervention to all provinces in the Philippines long before the pilot intervention
was to be completed under the WHSM-SP. The Bank team could have considered this
change in policy and accommodated a change in the PDO when the project was
restructured in 2010.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance:

The project was rated as an Environment Category B project and was expected to address
issues related to potential adverse effects of health care waste and associated construction
works. The project team was required to develop (i) environment and health care waste
management operating guidelines; (ii) the indigenous peoples strategy; (iii) the
resettlement policy framework. At time of project design stage, an environment
assessment was carried out and an environment management plan was developed by the
environmental health unit of the DOH. The DOH already had existing regulations on the
management of health care waste. These guidelines were further refined and updated by
the DOH through the assistance of the World Health Organization (WHO). Only minor
civil works were carried out in batch one provinces under the LOGOFIND project and
most of the other planned civil works were not carried from finances from the Second
WHSM project. In the few contracts carried out under the project, the environment
management plan had been included as a contractual obligation in the civil works
contracts supported by LGUs. There was general compliance with the provisions of the
EMP and with the Health Care Waste Guidelines of the DOH.

The project also complied with the safeguards on Indigenous Peoples. The DOH
developed an Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF). The safeguard on
Resettlement Policy Framework was not triggered during the life of the project.

Fiduciary compliance: The project has complied with the financial covenants which
include the submission of the quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFR) and the annual
audited project financial statements despite significant delays in some submissions. Out
of the seven audit reports received on the audit of the project financial statements, three
have qualified audit opinions (CY2006, 2007 and 2009), one adverse opinion (CY2011)
and three were unqualified or clean opinions (CY2008, 2010 and 2012). Among the



                                            14
issues raised by the Commission on Audit (COA), the supreme audit institution mandated
to conduct the external audit of the project, included (i) misclassification of accounts in
2006; (ii) understatement in cash balance and negative balance in Other Payables account
in 2007; (iii) forex loss and receivables from LGUs in 2009; and (iv) unreconciled
balance per books and the Bank’s Client Connection and fund transfers made to LGUs
and Operating Units although there were still unliquidated balances in the subsidiary
ledger accounts. The issues were followed up and subsequently addressed. The DOH
developed the required (i) financial management manual; (ii) procurement
implementation manual. During implementation, due to various reasons the DOH did not
continue to have procurement and financial management specialists dedicated for
activities under the second WHSM project. Throughout the project implementation,
delays were reported in opening local accounts, transferring counterpart funds, reporting
expenditures and requesting advances, and reporting back processes. This seriously
affected the performance of managing PBGs – which after restructuring amounted to
nearly one third of the value of the loan. Even at the time of project closure, large
amounts of funds still needed to be reported on as some payments had been advanced by
the LGUs, but due to delays of submitting the expenditure statements to the DOH, their
payments have not been completed.

The project’s financial management performance varied throughout the life of the project
with a mix of moderately satisfactory and moderately unsatisfactory in some periods. In
points where financial management implementation had been rated moderately
unsatisfactory the issues raised included (i) significant delays in the submission of the
interim financial reports and audit reports; (ii) significant delays in preparation and
submission of Withdrawal Applications and Statement of Expenditures; and (iii) several
issues raised in the audit reports.

Though it took the DOH a long time to process procurement contracts, there were no
problems encountered as to the outcomes of the procurement process. As in our previous
health projects, we did not receive any complaints as to how DOH conducts it
procurement.



2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project team at the DOH has encouraged development of sustainability plans in each
of the 5 pilot provinces. This includes identifying mechanisms to continue the incentive
payment to the women’s health teams, which was introduced as a new initiative under the
project. In addition, the hospitals and the LGUs have identified mechanisms to provide
financing to maintain the accreditation of the hospitals for MCP with PhilHealth and the
required capacity development process has been institutionalized. Most of the
performance indicators can still be monitored as the main objective of introducing
facility-based deliveries in the Philippines seem to be institutionalized. The expansion of
the strategy piloted under the project to across the country during the project’s lifetime




                                            15
also indicates the high ownership of the new strategy piloted under the project. A follow-
on project is not planned.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The overall relevance of objectives and design was rated as Substantial.

Relevance of objectives:
The PDO and the key areas identified for reforms by the project was the main objective
of the DOH, Government of the Philippines. The PDO remains relevant, as Philippines
still strives to improve its maternal mortality rate under the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs), and was consistent with the CAS. The project intended to demonstrate
the usefulness of a pilot intervention and at midway into project implementation the
majority of the pilot interventions package was scaled up nationally. Therefore the PDO
of the project’s relevance reduced. In addition, the demonstration pilot was never fully
evaluated as the end line survey was not carried out at the time of project close and the
interventions packages usefulness was not demonstrated scientifically.

Relevance of design:
The project components matched the project objective. The project supported a pilot to
introduce a completely new strategy of moving mothers to deliver in a health facility
from their existing practice of delivering at homes. A pilot design was appropriate as the
proposed intervention was attempting to make relevant changes in the health system both
from the supply and demand aspects. But the relevance of the project being a pilot
design was low with the national scaling up of the interventions at midway into project
implementation.

Relevance of implementation:
Even though the project had an appropriate design that planned to introduce a new
strategy, the initiation of the pilot project was far too delayed. The project team only did a
Level II restructuring 5 years into project implementation and did not make efforts to
cancel unwanted resources as the Government by then had mobilized other resources for
some identified tasks originally planned under the pilot. Furthermore, very early in the
project’s actual implementation, the Government of the Philippines in 2009, introduced
the same strategies that were being piloted as a national strategy and the project team at
the time of restructuring only introduced a few changes to incorporate this issue but
continued to call the batch 2 provinces a pilot intervention and the PDO remained
unchanged.

Relevance of the newly introduced intervention implemented under the SWHSM project
as a pilot remained high even at time of project closure in the Philippines. During the
project implementation period, facility-based deliveries reported an increase, a factor that
is known to help reduce maternal deaths and illness. But at time of project closure, even
though facility-based delivery proportions had increased, the Philippines is not yet on


                                             16
track to achieving its MDG targets related to maternal and child mortality and therefore
the interventions introduced under the project are still sufficiently relevant to achieve
further improvements in maternal health outcomes but a pilot intervention as proposed in
the project is no longer required.



3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Achievement of PDO:
The PDO of the Second WHSM project aimed to; (a) Demonstrate in selected sites a
sustainable, cost-effective model of delivering health services that increases access of
disadvantaged women to acceptable and high quality reproductive health services and
enables them to safely attain their desired spacing and number of children, (b) Establish
the core knowledge base and support systems that can facilitate countrywide replication
of the project experience as part of mainstream approaches to reproductive health care
within the framework of the Health Sector Reform Agenda.

Both these objectives were only partially achieved during the project period.

Achievement of PDO outcomes:
Out of the 6 original PDO outcomes that were identified to measure the achievement of
the PDO, 4 were achieved. Two outcomes were not achieved, as CEmOC and Family
planning services were not improved during the project period. (Table 1).

Out of the 7 PDO indicators that were monitored since restructuring, 3 were achieved, 3
others were partially achieved while the indicator on contraceptive usage remained
unchanged (Table 1).

Table 1: Status of achievement of PDO indicators at end of project (as of June 2013).

Description                                                 Status at project closure
Original PDO indicators
% of births delivered by skilled attendant (health          Achieved
professional) either in facility or at home
% of births delivered in a health facility                  Achieved
% of deliveries by the poor in BemOCs and CemOCs            Not achieved
financed through PhilHealth Sponsored Program
% of deliveries by the poor in BemOCs and CemOCs            Achieved
financed through DOH –LGU Performance Based Grant
Increase in the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate               Not achieved
% of RHUs that have not experienced stock outs of pills,    Achieved
injectables and IUDs for past 6 months

Revised PDO indicators
80% births delivered in a health facility in each project Achieved


                                            17
LGU
40% of deliveries in BEmONCs in each project LGU is         Not achieved target,
financed by PhilHealth Sponsored Program                    upward trend noted.
Increase in CPR in each project LGU by 10 percentage        Not achieved.
points
100% of BEmONCs in each project LGU are PhilHealth          Not achieved target,
accredited for its maternal health care package             upward trend noted.
100% of project LGUs have passed an ordinance on            Not achieved target,
contraceptive self- reliance                                upward trend noted.
% of project LGUs sustaining their enrolment for the        Achieved
Philhealth sponsored Program to at least 75% of the city
and municipal targets
100% of BEmONC teams in project LGUs trained                Achieved


The achievement of PDO is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project was not
able to meet 2 of the original PDO targets out of which the increase of services for the
poor was not achieved and had only disbursed 18% of the total project disbursement at
time of restructuring. The rating against the original PDO indicators is moderately
unsatisfactory. Out of the restructured PDO indicators, only 3 (out of the 7 indicators)
were fully achieved with nearly 82% of the total disbursement occurring from 2010
onwards. Furthermore, at end of the project nearly 37.5% of the total project value was
undisbursed. The rating against the restructured PDO indicators is moderately
unsatisfactory.


3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Modest

Comprehensive efficiency analyses were not carried out during the project period. But a
costing analysis had been carried out during midway of project implementation period to
identify the cost of expanding the pilot interventions across the country. This assessment
had indicated that the pilot was cost effective and recommendations were made for
scaling up the SWHSM project intervention to across the country in 2010 at the same
time as the batch 2 pilot interventions were introduced to 3 other provinces and therefore
much earlier than the pilot introduced through the project was evaluated. No other
efficiency assessments were carried out during the project period.

The Philippines public expenditure review report published by the World Bank (2011)
notes that the Philippines under performs in three key health indicators – life expectancy,
child mortality and maternal mortality, compared to similar regional group of countries.
Public and private spending for health services is significantly below the regional average
but it is noted that use of public health services is pro poor and therefore improving the
public health services are most essential to improve the health outcomes of the poor.




                                            18
Furthermore, the public expenditure report also highlights that 80% of public health
spending is at the LGU level but inter regional disparities across LGUs in spending is
large leading to large disparities in health outcomes in different regions.

The SWHSM project selected mainly the Bicol region for demonstrating the pilot
package of interventions which had a high poverty headcount of 51.1% and a 9.6% of the
share of the poor in 2006. While the SWHSM project aimed to increase the investments
in the pilot demonstration provinces, the efficiency of project execution as measured by
the speed of disbursement was poor. Actual disbursement significantly lagged behind
planned and at 5 years into project implementation only 18% of the funds were disbursed.
Majority of the project disbursed in the last two years of project implementation. At
restructuring, none of the funds were cancelled. Overall, slow disbursement created an
opportunity cost by tying up resources that could have been used by other projects or new
activities.

The project was efficient in targeting poorer women who would have otherwise never
come to a hospital to deliver their baby through the provision of project resources to
WHTs through the PBGs. Furthermore the PBGs helped increase the enrollment of the
poor for MCP under PhilHealth which helped increase the use of health services for MCP.
Analysis is not yet available to quantify the improvements of health outcomes among the
poor.

The project also turned out to be efficient in being a catalyst for mobilizing other
financial and technical resources to further develop Rural Health Units and District
hospitals but data in 2013 is not yet available to demonstrate these efforts but the public
expenditure review highlights that the poorer people use the LGU managed health
facilities more than DOH managed health facilities in regions.

Even though minimal effort had been taken to assess the efficiency of the interventions
piloted under the project the project interventions package is practiced by many other
countries with similar economic status and based on the need and the experience from the
project, the interventions package has now been scaled up to across the country.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: The overall outcome rating is moderately unsatisfactory. The relevance of the
project is substantial at the beginning but low by project closure, and the project has
achieved less than 50% of its planned outcomes.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Services for the indigent population



                                              19
At the time of project design, PhilHealth was not covering majority of the indigent
population due to poor identification of the indigent by the respective LGUs. But with the
completion of a national level survey of the poor in 2009 for the Conditional Cash
Transfer Program, the Government of the Philippines identified the indigents and they
were sponsored by the government to receive PhilHealth. Issues are still persistent with
low usage of services by the indigent population due to the need of submitting documents
when using the PhilHealth card and the rules and regulations for PhilHealth coverage
which includes restrictions on coverage for MCP services for mothers in their fifth
pregnancy and beyond or if an unmarried mother avails of these services. But now, a
majority of the indigent population seem to have access to PhilHealth for MCP services
and efforts are now needed to address the larger issues of increasing contraceptives usage
and reducing teenage pregnancies in the Philippines.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

PhilHealth Registration
The project seems to have been a catalyst to encourage PhilHealth registration by clients.
PhilHealth was in existence since 1995 but even at the time of project preparation and early
implementation, only a very few of the facilities were accredited by PhilHealth for MCP and only
a very small fraction of the population were registered with PhilHealth for seeking MCP services.
At the time of project closure, the supporting systems seem to have improved which have led to a
change in acceptance for PhilHealth for MCP services (client perception and also facility
registration) in the pilot provinces and also in the other provinces across the country.


Use of incentives for better performance
While the project introduced PBGs for the first time to establish WHTs, the concept is
incorporated quite comprehensively across the country along with the observed PhilHealth
registration increase. The LGUs have also conceptually agreed to sustain the incentive for WHTs
(now called Community Health Teams) through PhilHealth copayments.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Investments for Infrastructure improvement for MCP in health facilities
The project seems to have been a catalyst to secure the required funds for improving health
facilities to provide MCP services. Since the use of some of the allocated funds under
LOGOFIND for infrastructure at the beginning of the project, fund allocation for subsequent
infrastructure was not required as other sources were made available by other funders, LGUs and
the national government helping the sustainability of the interventions introduced under the
project.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not carried out.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low



                                               20
The Philippines health outcomes related to maternal care was poor with a MMR of 186
per 100,000 live births and 37.5% of deliveries occurring in health facilities at time of
appraisal in 2005. At the time of project design, many other different strategies were tried
to reduce the maternal deaths which included training of TBA for providing skilled
delivery and efforts taken to improve the risk approach with some linkages to nearest
hospitals. This interventions package was piloted under the first WHSM project also
partly supported by the World Bank. The SWHSM Project introduced a health system
improvement strategy which required interventions from all sides – both demand and
supply side – to change a home based delivery model to a facility based delivery model
while encouraging increased health insurance for the poor and improvements in health
facilities to manage a higher burden. This systems approach of improving maternity
services seems to have become institutionalized at time of project end. Given this
situation, it is most unlikely that the services will revert back to homes and therefore it is
expected that the expected MMR reduction can be achieved by using this approach.

In addition, there were quite a few interventions and policies that were introduced
through the life of the project that will be sustained. These include: (i) the scaling up of
the interventions package to across the country even while the pilot was operational, (ii)
the establishment of 29 training centers for BEmONC and CEmONC services which will
help expand the number of facilities accredited by PhilHealth for MCP, (iii) the
acceptance of the concept of using Women’s Health teams to link mothers and health
facilities, to improve early registration of pregnant mothers and for improving data
reporting.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The original PDO and the related indicators were well aligned to the CAS and to the
health sector needs of the Philippines at time of project design. Furthermore, the team
was supporting through the project a pilot interventions package that had not been tried in
the Philippines before but was a package that had been used to reduce maternal mortality
and related outcomes in other countries in the region and in countries with similar
economic status. In addition, as health is fully devolved to the local government level,
risks were well identified at time of project design and necessary covenants and
conditions were in place to mitigate against this risk. Given the impracticalities of
managing a project at each LGU level, the design required the DOH to be in charge of the
project even though delivery of health services is fully devolved. Lessons from previous
projects were only somewhat incorporated at project design.


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory


                                             21
The implementation support missions were carried out regularly at the beginning of the
project with full teams. The project had 4 Task Team Leaders over the life of the project
and the TTL and the team with a high local knowledge that designed the project had
moved on very early in the life of the project. The new teams seem to have waited far too
long to restructure the project and/or cancel as only less than 5% of the project funds had
been disbursed even at 2 years into project implementation. In 2010, the team
restructured the project, when disbursement was at 18%, but the restructuring was not
extensive and even though previous teams had mentioned cancellation of some of the
funds due to the policy changes on the ground and poor disbursement the restructuring
only included some changes to the PDO indicators and reallocation of funds to PBGs
from the funds available for civil works. The PBGs had 18% of the project allocation
which was increased to nearly 30% of the total project funds at restructuring but at time
of project closure nearly 50% of the allocation was not utilized. The team was aware of
the issues faced by processing delays and attempted to address this by moving out from
providing advances to the LGUs to providing the funds on a reimbursement basis. Even
at the time of project closure, there were a large proportion of PBG allocations unsettled
with the LGUs. The team had made many efforts to improve this situation; the final one
was to endorse the request of DOH to provide a one-time advance to the Designated
Account after the closing date and an extension to the disbursement grace period, to settle
these issues. Overall on these implementation issues, the team performance should have
been more proactive and should have sorted out these processing delays that go back to
2010/2011 much earlier than project closure period. However, several issues which
included (a) very low disbursement performance prevented an increase in the Designated
Account ceiling; and (b) significant delays of the DOH in completing the refund of
unused funds for a lapsed grant also delayed approval of a request for the one-time
advance.

Furthermore, throughout the project implementation period, the team has faced many
obstacles to the timely receipt of updates on the results identified in the results framework.
As the team has solely relied on the baseline and end line survey findings at time of
project closure a majority of the results were not reported. As the team was aware of the
long procurement delays the project underwent for procuring a firm to carry out the
baseline and end line surveys, the team should have addressed the data reporting aspect
much more comprehensively at restructuring. As the baseline data, which was supposed
to be available in 2006, was available only in 2008 and therefore the procurement process
for the end-line survey should have been initiated much earlier than 2012. Furthermore,
the team could have considered using another data source for reporting updates on the
results framework much earlier on in the life of the project and validated the reliability of
the available institutional data sources.

Finally, the procurement and financial reporting processes were excessively delayed
throughout project implementation period and while the team made a few changes at
restructuring to accommodate this issue more efforts should have been built-in to develop
the fiduciary capacity at all levels of implementation teams. Quality of supervision is
rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance


                                             22
Rating: Based on the moderately satisfactory rating at quality at entry and a moderately
unsatisfactory rating at quality of supervision the overall bank team performance is rated
as Moderately Unsatisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
With the implementation of the SWHSM project, the DOH was instrumental in
introducing a new strategy to improve maternal and newborn care outcomes in the
Philippines. This is a remarkable achievement given the constraints the Government team
faced throughout project implementation. Furthermore, the Government identified and
made efforts to improve all aspects of the health system to improve the MCP.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The main implementing agencies included the 84 LGUs in the 5 provinces and the DOH.
The regional DOH office provided implementation support and oversight. The
professional groups, PhilHealth and hospitals were secondary implementing units under
the project. The commitment and ownership for the interventions package was notably
high. The understanding of the project at most levels of these implementation teams was
also high.

At the beginning of project implementation, the LGUs were required sign a MOA and
open special bank accounts and deposit counterpart funds for the first three months of
implementation. While this was a condition of effectiveness of the project, this activity
was delayed by more than a year that in turn delayed project launch and the introduction
of the project interventions.

Moreover, implementation capacity at all levels was quite low when implementing World
Bank financed projects using World Bank procedures and processes. This led to many
procurement and financial reporting delays at all levels and units that in turn led to
delayed implementation throughout the life of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: On the basis of a moderately satisfactory rating given for Government
implementation and moderately unsatisfactory for delayed implementation by the
implementing agencies, the overall rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

Ownership of a project by the government and the implementation teams across all levels
of regional and sub-regional government is crucial to the success of a project. This was
very well demonstrated in this project, as the pilot that was introduced in the project was



                                            23
a package of services the Government wanted to implement and demonstrate to all other
stakeholders.

The most common reasons for project implementation delays were the procurement
system and financial management reporting processes. As this was expected even at time
of project design, building in capacity development programs on fiduciary aspects on a
continuing basis is essential to address this issue from the beginning of project
implementation.

The experience from using Performance Based Grants had both positive and negative
effects. PBGs helped establish WHTs and other teams as required and they helped create
the link between the demand side (community) with the supply side. But managing a
PBG within governments system is not easy as most countries have input-based
budgeting and also annual cycles. These systems are yet not adapted to manage financial
incentives for achieving results. The project faced many issues with regard to making
available advance funds for PBGs. Following the restructuring this was changed to a
reimbursement scheme that created a newer set of reporting issues. Therefore, much
further analysis and understanding along with discussions with auditors and other groups
within government is essential before providing funds for incentives. Furthermore, an
independent verification system and performance targets were not in place for the PBGs
designed under the project. If such mechanisms were utilized the DOH and the LGUs
would have been able to link results that would have helped improve the maternal health
outcomes.


As the Philippines has a highly decentralized health system, implementing a project with
one lead agency, in this case the DOH, was not easy as the authority and reporting back
mechanisms for the project were different from the usual practice of working. This also
led to many delays and if similar projects are designed again this autonomous structure
needs to be better incorporated to procurement and financial reporting systems practiced
in the country.

Early restructuring including cancelling of unwanted resources would have further
benefited the implementation of this project and therefore the team should have carried
out a more comprehensive restructuring much earlier on in the life of the project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not Available

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Available

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not available



                                          24
      Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                           Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                                  Percentage of
                 Components                               Estimate (USD
                                        (USD millions)                                      Appraisal
                                                             millions)
      A: Local delivery of the
      Integrated Women’s Health and
                                               13.40              5.19                              39%
      Safe Motherhood Service Package
      (WHSM-SP)
      B: National capacity to sustain
                                                2.50              5.10                          204%
      WHSM services
                                                                 00
                   Total Project Costs         15.90             10.29                              65%

      Front-end fee IBRD                                0.08                 0.08                    .00
           Total Financing Required                    15.98                10.37                   65%



      (b) Project Expenditure by categories
       Category         Amount of      Amount of        % from        Actual Disbursement (in        % of           % of
                        the loan       the loan         Appraisal     US Dollars)                    utilization    expenditures
                        allocated at   allocated        allocation                                   (from          to be
                        approval       after                                                         restructured   financed
                        (expressed     restructuring                                                 amount)
                        in US          (expressed in
                        Dollars)       US Dollars)
(1)    Goods and           4,000,000       4,800,000           120%                 2,205,808.09            46%     100%
       services other
       than
       consulting
       services
(2)    Works              1,300,000       1,250,000            96%                    933,147.72            75%     100%
(3)    Consultants        2,700,000       2,670,000            99%                  1,508,057.11            56%     100%
       services
(4)    Training and       1,700,000       1,500,000            88%                  2,132,733.11           142%     100%
       workshops
(5)    Performance        3,300,000       5,000,000            151%                 2,527,136.17            50%     100% of
       based grants                                                                                                 amounts
                                                                                                                    disbursed
(6)    Sub project        1,500,000               0             0%                              0              0    100% of
       financing                                                                                                    amounts
       under part                                                                                                   disbursed
       A.1(a)(i) of
       the project
(7)    Front end fee         80,000          80,000            100%                             -               -   Amount due
                                                                                                                    under
                                                                                                                    section 2.04
                                                                                                                    of Loan
                                                                                                                    agreement


                                                         25
(8)     Premia for                  0            0         0%                      0         0   Amount due
        interest Rate                                                                            under
        caps and                                                                                 Section
        Interest rate                                                                            2.09© of this
        collars                                                                                  agreement
(9)     Unallocated       1,420,000        700,000         49%                     0         0
DA-B    Designated                                                                 0
        Account
DA-C    Designated                                                       1,060,874.66
        Account
        Total            16,000,000     16,000,000           -          10,367,756.86     65%




       (b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                               Type of      Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
                  Source of Funds
                                             Cofinancing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                            millions)   millions)
                                            Counterpart
       Borrower                                            22.00      16.00        73%
                                            funds
        International Bank for Reconstruction
                                              Loan         16.00      16.00        100%
       and Development




                                                     26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

These are the LGU specific indicator results for the PDO indicators summarized in the
data sheet. Outputs by component follow, thereafter.

                                              Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval            Target      Completion or
                                                documents)            Values       Target Years
                  80% births delivered in a health facility in each project LGU (defined as a
Indicator 7:
                  province)
Value
quantitative or   42% (DOH data)                                 80%          87% (DOH data)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                                     09/30/2010   11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          The average from all 5 Provinces.
achievement)
Indicator 7A:     80% births delivered in a health facility in Masbate
Value
quantitative or   35%                                            80%          73%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                                     09/30/2010   11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7B:     80% births delivered in a health facility in Catanduanes
Value
quantitative or   72%                                            80%          100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                                     09/30/2010   11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7C:     80% births delivered in a health facility in Albay
Value
quantitative or   37%                                            80%          95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                                     09/30/2010   11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7D:     80% births delivered in a health facility in Sorsogon
Value
quantitative or   53%                                            80%          94%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                                     09/30/2010   11/30/2013
Comments


                                                 27
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7E : 80% births delivered in a health facility in Surigao del Sur
Value
quantitative or 48%                                            80%          87%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                       09/30/2010   11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                40% of deliveries in BEmONCs in each project LGU (defined as Province)
Indicator 8:
                financed by PhilHealth Sponsored Program
Value
quantitative or 10%                                            40%          38%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                       09/30/2010   11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                40% of deliveries in BEmONCs in Masbate is financed by PhilHealth Sponsored
Indicator 8A:
                Program
Value
quantitative or 3%                                             40%          14%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                       09/30/2010   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                40% of deliveries in BEmONCs in Catanduanes is financed by PhilHealth
Indicator 8B :
                Sponsored Program
Value
quantitative or 1%                                             40%          19%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                       09/30/2010   11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                40% of deliveries in BEmONCs in Albay is financed by PhilHealth Sponsored
Indicator 8C :
                Program
Value
quantitative or 8%                                             40%          35%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                       09/30/2010   11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                40% of deliveries in BEmONCs in Sorsogon is financed by PhilHealth
Indicator 8D:
                Sponsored Program


                                            28
Value
quantitative or 1%                                          40%            26%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                    09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                40% of deliveries in BEmONCs in Surigao del Sur is financed by PhilHealth
Indicator 8E :
                Sponsored Program
Value
quantitative or 14%                                         40%            43%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                    09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Increase in CPR in each project LGU (defined as province) by 10 percentage
Indicator 9:
                points
Value
quantitative or 35%                                         45%            39.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                    09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9A: Increase in CPR in Masbate by 10 percentage points
Value
quantitative or 33%                                         43%            33%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                    09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9B: Increase in CPR in Catanduanes by 10 percentage points
Value
quantitative or 33%                                         43%            50%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                    09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9C: Increase in CPR in Albay by 10 percentage points
Value
quantitative or 33%                                         43%            32%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                    09/30/2010     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %


                                             29
achievement)
Indicator 9D:     Increase in CPR in Sorsogon by 10 percentage points
Value
quantitative or   32%                                         42%              31%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                                  09/30/2010       11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9E:     Increase in CPR in Surigao del Sur by 10 percentage points
Value
quantitative or   44%                                         54%              47%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                                  09/30/2010       11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  100% of BEmONCs in each project LGU (defined as province) are PhilHealth
Indicator 10:
                  accredited for its maternal health care package
Value
quantitative or 9%                                             100%       86%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                       09/30/2010 11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of BEmONCs in each project LGUs (Masbate) are PhilHealth accredited
Indicator 10A:
                for its maternal health care package
Value
quantitative or 5%                                             100%       86%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                       09/30/2010 11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of BEmONCs in each project LGUs (Catanduanes) are PhilHealth
Indicator 10B:
                accredited for its maternal health care package
Value
quantitative or 0%                                             100%       90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                       09/30/2010 11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of BEmONCs in each project LGUs (Albay) are PhilHealth accredited for
Indicator 10C:
                its maternal health care package
Value
                5%                                             100%       74%
quantitative or


                                                30
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                       09/30/2010 11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of BEmONCs in each project LGUs (Sorsogon) are PhilHealth accredited
Indicator 10D:
                for its maternal health care package
Value
quantitative or 29%                                            100%       94%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                       09/30/2010 11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of BEmONCs in each project LGUs (Surigao del Sur) are PhilHealth
Indicator 10E:
                accredited for its maternal health care package
Value
quantitative or 6%                                             100%       44%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2008                                       09/30/2010 11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of project LGUs (defined as a province) have passed an ordinance on
Indicator 11:
                contraceptive self- reliance
Value
quantitative or 36%                                            100%       80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                       09/30/2010 11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of project LGUs (Masbate) have passed an ordinance on contraceptive
Indicator 11A:
                self- reliance
Value
quantitative or 29%                                            100%       90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                       09/30/2010 11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of project LGUs (Catanduanes) have passed an ordinance on contraceptive
Indicator 11B:
                self- reliance
Value
quantitative or 100%                                           100%       100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2012                                       09/30/2010 11/30/2013
Comments


                                            31
(incl. %
achievement)
                 100% of project LGUs (Albay) have passed an ordinance on contraceptive self-
Indicator 11C:
                 reliance
Value
quantitative or 22%                                           100%           100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of project LGUs (Sorsogon) have passed an ordinance on contraceptive
Indicator 11D:
                self- reliance
Value
quantitative or 27%                                           100%           33%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                100% of project LGUs (Surigao del Sur) have passed an ordinance on
Indicator 11E:
                contraceptive self- reliance
Value
quantitative or 0%                                            100%           100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of project LGUs (defined as a province) sustaining their enrolment for the
Indicator 12:
                Philhealth sponsored Program to at least 75% of the city and municipal targets
Value
quantitative or 81%                                           75%            90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of project LGUs (Masbate) sustaining their enrolment for the Philhealth
Indicator 12A:
                sponsored Program to at least 75% of the city and municipal targets
Value
quantitative or 95%                                           75%            24%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 12B: % of project LGUs (Catanduanes) sustaining their enrolment for the Philhealth


                                               32
                sponsored Program to at least 75% of the city and municipal targets
Value
quantitative or 82%                                           75%            82%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of project LGUs (Albay) sustaining their enrolment for the Philhealth
Indicator 12C:
                sponsored Program to at least 75% of the city and municipal targets
Value
quantitative or 72%                                           75%            67%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of project LGUs (Sorsogon) sustaining their enrolment for the Philhealth
Indicator 12D:
                sponsored Program to at least 75% of the city and municipal targets
Value
quantitative or 93%                                           75%            100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of project LGUs (Surigao del Sur) sustaining their enrolment for the Philhealth
Indicator 12E:
                sponsored Program to at least 75% of the city and municipal targets
Value
quantitative or 84%                                           75%            100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13: 100% of BEmONC teams in project LGUs (defined as a province) trained
Value
quantitative or 36%                                           100%           106%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13A: 100% of BEmONC teams in project LGUs (Masbate) trained
Value
quantitative or 69%                                           100%           92%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                                      09/30/2010     11/30/2013


                                               33
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13B: 100% of BEmONC teams in project LGUs (Catanduanes) trained
Value
quantitative or 0%                                    100%            104%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                              09/30/2010      11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13C: 100% of BEmONC teams in project LGUs (Albay) trained
Value
quantitative or 12%                                   100%            147%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                              09/30/2010      11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13D: 100% of BEmONC teams in project LGUs (Sorsogon) trained
Value
quantitative or 21%                                   100%            103%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                              09/30/2010      11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13D: 100% of BEmONC teams in project LGUs (Surigao del Sur) trained
Value
quantitative or 26%                                   100%            83%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2008                              09/30/2010      11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                          34
Component Description                              Initiated   Current      Results
                                                   Yes/No      status and   achieved
                                                               Remarks
Component A: Local delivery of the
Integrated Women’s Health and safe
Motherhood (WHSM) service package
(appraisal estimate US $13.4 million; actual
US $ 5.19 million).
Sub component 1
(a) support the Local Governments in the           Yes         On-going    LGUs have
selected Provinces to mobilize networks of                                 established
public and private providers to deliver the                                and are
integrated women’s health and safe                                         deploying the
motherhood service package (WHSM-SP)                                       different
with a focus on maternal care, family                                      teams –
planning and STI/HIV control services. The                                 WHT,
component activities included establishing                                 B/CEmONC
teams for Women’s health, basic obstetric                                  teams,
care, comprehensive obstetric care,                                        itinerant
adolescent and youth health, itinerant teams;                              teams, etc.
(b) to assist LGUs to develop and                  No          No approach No specific
implement cost effective and sustainable                       developed   services
approaches to reach three high risk groups:                                developed for
female sex workers, returning overseas                                     the target
workers and young adults.                                                  groups

Sub component 2 to establish and operate
reliable and sustainable systems for the
delivery of WHSM-SP which included;

(a) drug and procurement security , through        Yes         On-going     Contraceptive
the provision of goods and services                                         Self-Reliance
                                                                            ordinances
                                                                            issued in all
                                                                            LGUs
(i) the establishment of efficient province        Yes         On-going     LGUs
and city wide logistics planning,                                           following RA
management and procurement systems,                                         9184 on
                                                                            procurement
(ii) the segmentation of local markets for         No          Not being    No market
appropriate targeting of subsidized financing                  undertaken   segmentation
and free distribution of contraceptives and                    at LGU level in place
(iii) complementary establishment or               Yes                      LGUs
expansion of social marketing initiatives for


                                              35
contraceptives;
(b) safe blood supply through the provision            Yes   On-going       Blood
and services for the setting up of a network                                banking and
of blood service facilities at different levels                             other related
of the health care system.                                                  equipment
                                                                            provided to
                                                                            some LGUs
(c) behavior change interventions through
(i) pilot testing of performance based grants          Yes   On-going       PBGs for
to selected LGUs, health service providers                                  WHTs and
and users and                                                               mothers in
                                                                            place
(ii) the provision of goods and services for
advocacy, communications and information
dissemination.

(d) sustainable financing of local WHSM
services and related commodities through

(i) increased LGU financing and increased                    Health         Almost 100%
revenues form PhilHealth benefit payments                    facilities     of health
                                                             accredited     facilities
                                                             under          accredited
                                                             PhilHealth’s   under MCP
                                                             MCP
(ii) application of a market segmentation              Yes   User fees
mechanism that would allow LGU                               not being
beneficiaries to raise user charges from non-                implemented
poor clients and encourage use of WHSM                       at LGU level
services by eligible poor clients through                    for non-poor
grants and awards                                            clients

Component B: National capacity to sustain
WHSM services (appraisal estimate US $ 2.5
million; actual US $ 5.10 million).

(1) develop, adopt and implement                       Yes   On-going       DOH
operational and regulatory guidelines for the                               issuance on
provision and use of WHSM services                                          WHSM-SP
                                                                            Operations
                                                                            Manual
(2) develop a network of training providers            Yes   On-going       29 Training
that are accredited to provide courses on : (a)              Trainings of   Centers
appropriate deliver y of the integrated                      B/CEmONC       established
WHSM – SP ; and (b) team work and                            teams          Training
collaboration for the various types of                       continuing     course on


                                                  36
WHSM teams                                                              B/CEmONC
                                                                        developed
                                                                        and
                                                                        implemented
(3) (a) develop a system to monitor and           Yes   Monitoring      Baseline
evaluate the implementation of the WHSM –               system          survey
SP and publicly disseminate the monitoring              established     completed
and evaluation results; (b) carry out project           but reporting
baseline and impact evaluation studies; and             delayed
(c) support policy and operations research on           Only
WHSM                                                    baseline
                                                        study
                                                        completed,
                                                        the end line
                                                        and
                                                        BEmONC
                                                        functionality
                                                        assessment
                                                        were not
                                                        undertaken
(4) Establish and maintain project                Yes   LGU and         Reporting
management capacity at the national and at              DOH project     system in
the local level.                                        monitoring      place
                                                        teams           RRA process
                                                        created and     being
                                                        functional      implemented
                                                        Application     by all project
                                                        of Rapid        LGUs
                                                        Results
                                                        Approach as
                                                        a
                                                        management
                                                        tool
                                                        implemented
                                                        at the
                                                        provincial
                                                        level




                                             37
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The welfare economics framework justifies government intervention in reproductive
health on the grounds of organization in (i) efficiency and productivity in the use of
resources, (ii) equity in the distribution of resources.

Efficiency is achieved if consumers and the producers pursued their self-interest in
competitive markets. But some conditions are not always met especially in health care
markets.

Market failure in benefit valuation occurs through; (i) externalities, (ii) public goods, (iii)
incomplete information, (iv) information asymmetry. Market failure in cost variation
occurs through; (i) taxes and subsidies, (ii) monopoly, (iii) inefficient government service
provision.

Furthermore, if resources were allocated on the basis of market mechanisms, many
poorer people would be unable to achieve the minimally acceptable package of services
and leads to an inequitable distribution of services. Therefore to achieve equity, the
government’s tendency to intervene to redistribute services is acceptable.

Comprehensive efficiency analyses were not carried out during the project period. But a
costing analysis had been carried out during midway of project implementation period to
identify the cost of expanding the pilot interventions across the country. This assessment
had indicated that the pilot was cost effective and recommendations were made for
scaling up the SWHSM project intervention to across the country in 2010 at the same
time as the batch 2 pilot interventions were introduced to 3 other provinces and therefore
much earlier than the pilot introduced through the project was evaluated. No other
efficiency assessments were carried out during the project period.

The Philippines public expenditure review report published by the World Bank (2011)
notes that the Philippines under performs in three key health indicators – life expectancy,
child mortality and maternal mortality, compared to similar regional group of countries.
Public and private spending for health services is significantly below the regional average
but it is noted that use of public health services is pro poor and therefore improving the
public health services are most essential to improve the health outcomes of the poor.

Furthermore, the public expenditure report also highlights that 80% of public health
spending is at the LGU level but inter regional disparities across LGUs in spending is
large leading to large disparities in health outcomes in different regions.

The SWHSM project selected mainly the Bicol region for demonstrating the pilot
package of interventions which had a high poverty headcount of 51.1% and a 9.6% of the
share of the poor in 2006. While the SWHSM project aimed to increase the investments
in the pilot demonstration provinces, the efficiency of project execution as measured by
the speed of disbursement was poor. Actual disbursement significantly lagged behind



                                              38
planned and at 5 years into project implementation only 18% of the funds were disbursed.
Majority of the project disbursed in the last two years of project implementation. At
restructuring, none of the funds were cancelled. Overall, slow disbursement created an
opportunity cost by tying up resources that could have been used by other projects or new
activities.

The project was efficient in targeting poorer women who would have otherwise never
come to a hospital to deliver their baby through the provision of project resources to
WHTs through the PBGs. Furthermore the PBGs helped increase the enrollment of the
poor for MCP under PhilHealth which helped increase the use of health services for MCP.
Analysis is not yet available to quantify the improvements of health outcomes among the
poor.

The project also turned out to be efficient in being a catalyst for mobilizing other
financial and technical resources to further develop Rural Health Units and District
hospitals but data in 2013 is not yet available to demonstrate these efforts but the public
expenditure review highlights that the poorer people use the LGU managed health
facilities more than DOH managed health facilities in regions.

Even though minimal effort had been taken to assess the efficiency of the interventions
piloted under the project the project interventions package is practiced by many other
countries with similar economic status and based on the need and the experience from the
project, the interventions package has now been scaled up to across the country.




                                            39
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
                             Senior Financial Management
Ernesto Diaz                                                    EAPCO
                             Specialist
Teresa Ho                    Task Team Leader                   EASHD Task Team Leader
Janet Hohnen                 Consultant
Dale Huntington              Consultant
Noel Sta. Ines               Procurement Specialist             EAPCO
Cynthia F. Manalastas        Program Assistant                  EACPF
Parivash Mehrdadi            Program Assistant                  EASHD
Thomas Merrick               Consultant                         WBIHD
                             Operations Officer (Social
Jose Tiburcio Nicolas                                           EASSD
                             Safeguards)
E. Gail Richardson           Consultant                         MNSHD
Mario Taguiwalo              Consultant
Sabrina Terry                Program Assistant                  EASHD
Florence Tienzo              Health Specialist                  EASHD
Josefo Tuyor                 Operations Officer (Environment)   EASEN

Supervision/ICR
Preselyn Abella            Senior Finance Officer               CTRLN
                           Senior Financial Management
Agnes Albert-Loth                                               EASFM
                           Specialist
Kristine May San Juan Ante Program Assistant                     EACPF
Dominic Reyes Aumentado Senior Procurement Specialist            EASR1
Cesar Palma Banzon         Program Assistant                     GSDCS
Eduardo P. Banzon          Senior Health Specialist             EASHH Task Team Leader
Jonas Garcia Bautista      Consultant                            EASNS
Sadia Afroze Chowdhury     Consultant                            SASHN
Rafael A. Cortez           Senior Economist (Health)            HDNHE
Ernesto Diaz               Consultant                           EASHD
Timothy Johnston           Senior Health Specialist             EASHH
Gia Mendoza                Program Assistant                     EACPF
Kumari Vinodhani Navaratne Senior Health Specialist              SASHN
                                                                EASSO –
Jose Tiburcio Nicolas        Operations Officer
                                                                  HIS
Maria Loreto Padua           Senior Social Development Spec      EASPS
Gerardo F. Parco             Senior Operations Officer           EASPS
Joseph G. Reyes              Financial Management Specialist     EASOS
Roberto Antonio F. Rosadia   Health Specialist                  EASHH Task Team Leader
Lilian Loza San Gabriel      Program Assistant                   EACPF


                                             40
Noel Sta. Ines            Senior Procurement Specialist     EASR1
Tomas JR. Sta.Maria       Financial Management Specialist   EASFM
Florence Tienzo           Health Specialist                 EASHD
Fe Timonera               E T Consultant                    CTRLA
Josefo Tuyor              Senior Environmental Specialist   EASDE


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                  97.37
  FY04                                                                 153.39
  FY05                                                                 129.66
  FY06                                                                   0.33
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                          Total:                                       380.75
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   4.01
  FY06                                                                 111.63
  FY07                                                                  44.95
  FY08                                                                  64.95
                          Total:                                       225.54




                                         41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not relevant




                                      42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not carried out




                                   43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Borrower has not completed their project completion report at the time of submission of
this ICR. The draft ICR was sent to government for their comments and they only came
back with updates to project indicator values. These revised figures were incorporated in
the ICR.




                                           44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Project Documents:

Second WHSMP Aide Memoires – various dates
Second WHSMP Completion of the Baseline Survey: Final Report – July 15, 2008
Second WHSMP Consolidated Audit Reports – various dates
Second WHSMP Implementation Status and Results Reports – various dates
Second WHSMP Interim Financial Reports – various dates
Second WHSMP Loan Agreement – June 30, 2005
Second WHSMP Loan Agreement, Amended – September 30, 2010
Second WHSMP Project Appraisal Document
Second WHSMP Restructuring Paper – June 23, 2010

Other publications:

Gonzales, Glenda, Eichler, Rena and Alix Beith 2010. Pay for Performance for Women’s
Health Teams and Pregnant Women in the Philippines: Bethesda, Maryland: Health
Systems 20/20, Abt Associates Inc.
Huntington, Dale, Banzon, Eduardo, Recidoro, Zenaida. A Systems Approach To
Improving Maternal Health in the Philippines. Bulletin of the World Health Organization
2012,90:104-110
Lavado, Rouselle. The Filipino Child Policy Brief No. 1 2010. Philippine Institute for
Development Studies. Manila, Philippines.
Lavado, Rouselle, Lagrada, Leizel, Ulep, Valerie Gilbert, Tan, Lester. Who Provides
Good Quality Prenatal Care in the Philippines? Discussion Paper Series No. 2010-18.
Philippine Institute for Development Studies, Manila, Philippines.
Manasan, Rosario and Cuenca, Janet. Benefit Incidence of Public Spending on Health in
the Philippines. Discussion Paper Series No. 2010-36. Philippine Institute for
Development Studies, Manila, Philippines.
Ulep, Valerie Gilbert. Are There Improvements in the Delivery of Maternal and Child
Health Programs in the Philippines?. Powerpoint presentation. 2013.




                                          46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33466R4
     I Ilocos                                        X Northern Mindanao
      1
      2
      3
          Ilocos Norte
          Ilocos Sur
          La Union
                                                     58
                                                     59
                                                     60
                                                          Bukidnon
                                                          Camiguin
                                                          Lanao del Norte                                                                           Basco
                                                                                                                                                               Batan
                                                                                                                                                              Islands                                                                   PH I L I PPI NES
      4   Pangasinan                                 61   Misamis Occidental
                                                     62   Misamis Oriental                                                                                    11                                                                                        SELECTED CITIES
CAR Cordillera Admin. Reg.                                                                                                                                                                            20ºN
     5    Abra                                    XI Davao Reg.                                                                            Luzon Strait                                                                                                 PROVINCE CAPITALS
     6    Apayao                                     63   Compostela Valley
     7    Benguet                                    64   Davao del Norte                                                                                                                                                                               REGION CAPITALS
     8    Ifugao                                     65   Davao del Sur
     9    Kalinga                                    66   Davao Oriental
    10    Mountain Province
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                           Babuyan
                                                 XII SOCCSKSARGEN                                                                           Islands
    II Cagayan Valley                                67   North Cotabato                                                                                                                                                                                RIVERS
    11    Batanes                                    68   Sarangani                                                                        Babuyan Channel
    12    Cagayan                                    69   South Cotabato                                                                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
    13    Isabela                                    70   Sultan Kudarat
    14    Nueva Vizcaya                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS
    15    Quirino                                XIII Caraga                                     Laoag City                  1
                                                                                                                                       6
                                                     71   Agusan del Norte                                                                              12
  III Central Luzon
                                                                                                                                           Kabugao                                                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                     72   Agusan del Sur
    16    Aurora                                     73   Dinagat Islands                                                Bangued
    17    Bataan                                     74   Surigao del Norte
                                                                                                                                                        Tuguegarao                                                                                      REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                   Vigan                     5             9
    18    Bulacan                                    75   Surigao del Sur
    19    Nueva Ecija                                                                                                            CAR            Tabuk        II                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
    20    Pampanga                          ARMM Autonomous Reg. in                                                 Bontoc                                   Ilagan
    21    Tarlac                                 Muslim Mindanao                                          I         2
                                                                                                                                       10
    22    Zambales                                                                                                                    Lagawe                  13

NCR National Capital Reg.
                                                     76
                                                     77
                                                          Basilan
                                                          Lanao del Sur
                                                                                 San Fernando
                                                                                                                         8                                                Luzon                                                           125ºE
                                                     78   Maguindanao**                                        3 La Trinidad                   Cabarroguis
                                                     79   Sulu                             Baguio                                        Bayombong
IV-A CALABARZON                                      80   Tawi-Tawi
                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                      14     15
    23    Batangas                                                                          Lingayen
    24    Cavite
    25    Laguna
                                                  **  Shariff Aguak (Maganoy) and                                                                     16
                                                  Sultan Kudarat serve as co-capitals                     4
    26    Quezon                                  of the province.                                                                                   Baler       III
    27    Rizal                                                                                                                         Palayan
                                                                                                        Tarlac                    19
IV-B MIMAROPA                                                                               Iba            21                                                                                                                                                                PHILIPPINES
    28    Marinduque
                                                                                                   22
                                                                                                                         San Fernando                                        IV-A
    29    Mindoro Occidental                                                                                    20
                                                                                                                 18                  Polillo
    30    Mindoro Oriental                                                                                    Malolos               Islands
    31    Palawan*                                                                                 Balanga      Quezon
                                                                                                    17            Pasig
    32    Romblon
                                                                                        NCR MANILA                   Antipolo
                                                                                               Trece Martires      27                        34
    V Bicol                                                                                                24            Santa Cruz                                                       Daet              V
    33    Albay                                                                                             Calamba25 26
    34    Camarines Norte                                                                                      23
    35    Camarines Sur                                                                                                   Lucena                                                                    35                    36
                                                                                        Lubang        Batangas                                                                                                            Catanduanes
    36    Catanduanes                                                                    Islands                                                                                                 Pili                          Virac
    37    Masbate
                                                                                                                Calapan                             Boac
    38    Sorsogon                                                                                                                                          28
                                                                                                 Mamburao                                            Marinduque
                                                                                                                                  30                                                                             Legaspi
   VI Western Visayas
    39    Aklan                                                                                     Mindoro                                         Sibuyan
                                                                                                                                                                                                      33                Sorsogon                                             Phil i ppi n e
                                                                                                                                                                                     Burias                              38
    40    Antique                                                                                                                29                                Sea
    41
    42
          Capiz
          Guimaras
                                                                                             M
                                                                                                  ind                                                                  Romblon
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ticao                     Catarman                                              Sea
                                                                                                     or                                                    Tablas                                     Masbate
    43    Iloilo                                                                                        o
                                                                                                              Str
                                                                                                                                                                     32 Sibuyan                                                        52                    Samar
    44    Negros Occidental                                                       Busuanga                                                                                                                 37
                                                                                                                 ai
                                                                                                                     t                                                                                Masbate
 VII Central Visayas                                                                                                                                                                                                                          53
                                                                                                                                        Semirara                                              Visayan
    45    Bohol                                                                         Culion                                           Islands                         Kalibo                                                Catbalogan                                VIII
    46    Cebu                                                                                                                                                                       Roxas City            Sea
    47    Negros Oriental
                                                                                         Linapacah
                                                                                                                                                                    39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Naval 49                        50 Borongan
    48    Siquijor                                                                                                                                                         41
                                                                                                                                                Panay                                                                                              Tacloban
                                                                                                                     Cuyo
VIII Eastern Visayas                                                                                                Islands                                       40
                                                                                                                                                                         43                                                              51        Leyte
    49    Biliran
                                                                                                                                                                                Jordan                           Cebu                  Leyte        Gulf
    50    Eastern Samar                                                                                                                    San Jose de              Iloilo
    51    Leyte                                                                                                                             Buenavista                                    Bacolod
                                                                                                                                                                              42                                 46
    52    Northern Samar                                                                         Dumaran
    53    Samar                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cebu                        54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dinagat
    54    Southern Leyte                                                                                                                                                                                                          Maasin
                                                                                                               IV-B                                          VI                     Negros                       VII                                          73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                San Jose                               10ºN
   IX Zamboanga Peninsula                                                                                                                                                          44                                   45 Bohol                                             Siargao
    55    Zamboanga del Norte                                        Puerto Princesa                                                                                                                                  Tagbilaran                              Surigao
    56    Zamboanga del Sur                                  31                                                                                                                                                                                                 74
                                                                                                                                                                                        47
    57    Zamboanga Sibugay                                                                                                                                                                                           Mindanao
    ---   Zamboanga City                                          Palawan                                                                                                       Dumaguete              Siquijor      Sea               Mambajao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         71                            XIII
                                                                                                                                                                                                         48 Siquijor                     59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Camiguin                               Tandag
 * Executive Order 429, May 23, 2005,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75
 provides for the transfer of Palawan
                                                                                                                                                                                                            X                                                Butuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cagayan
 province (#31) from Region IV to
 Region VI; Administrative Order 129
 holds EO429 in abeyance until an
                                                                                        Sulu Sea                                                                    IX                  Dipolog             Oroquieta           de Oro                                  Prosperidad
 implementation plan is approved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 62                        72
 by the President.                      Bugsuk                                                                                                                                                             61         Iligan
                                                                                                                                                                                     55                                                            Malaybalay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   60           Marawi
                                  Balabac                                                                                                                                            Pagadian
                                                                                                                                                                         Ipil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tubod
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                77       Mindanao                      63
                                                                                                                                                                                57               56                                                           64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nabunturan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tagum
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cotabato                           67                             66
                                                 Cagayan                                                                                                                                                                                           Davao
                                                   Sulu
                                                                                                                                                       ZAMBOANGA CITY    Moro                                            78                                                Mati         XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Shariff Aguak                       Kidapawan
                                                                                                                                                    Isabela    Zamboanga   Gulf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Maganoy)                             Digos
                                                                                                                                                        City
                                                                                                                                                                       ARMM                                               Isulan                               Davao
                                                                                                                                                        Basilan 76                                                        70                  Koronadal Gulf                    This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          69                65                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                          Jolo
                                                                                                                                       Sulu                                                                                             General          Alabel                 World Bank. The boundaries,

           MALAYS   IA
           M A LAYS IA                                                                                                                                                                                                 XII
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                               79                                                                                                                               the part of The World Bank
          0       50        100         150 Kilometers                                    Tawi-Tawi                                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sarangani
                                                                                           80
                                                                                                   Panglima
                                                                                                                                                                                              Celebes Sea                                                                       legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                or any endorsement or
 5ºN                                                                                               Sugala                                                                                                                                                                       acceptance of such
          0               50             100 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                        125ºE                                 boundaries.
                                                                                             120ºE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NOVEMBER 2012
