Document of
The World Bank                       FL     
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLYFI                        E     C      P
Report No. 125 3b-HO
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
HONDURAS
November 10, 1976
Latin America and the Caribbean
Proj ects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used byr recipients only In the performance of
their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Fquivalents
Currency Unit             = Lempira (L)
IJS$1.00                  = L 2.00
L                         = US$0.50
L l,000,000               = US$500,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of' Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                    British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)               = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)          = 0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.336 square mile
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (m ton)      = 2.205 pounds
Acronyms and Abbreviations
ADT                       - Average Daily Traffic
BR                        - Brown and Root (Consultant)
CAB-I                     -  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
COHDFFOR                  -  Gorporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
CONSUPLAN                 -  Consetjo Superior de Planificacion Economica
DGH                       -  Directorate General for Highways
DGIT-N                    -  Directorate General for Highway Maintenance
DGT                       -  Directorate General for Transport
ENP                       -  Impresa Nacional Portuaria
FAO                       -  Food and Agricultural Organization
FNIT                      - Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras
HTH'                      -  Howard IIunphreys, Keeble and Partners
(Consultant)
IDB                       -  Tnter-American Development Bank
MCOPT                     - Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Obras Pblicas
y Transporte
SIECA                     -  Secretaria Permanentlt del Tratado de Integracion
Fcon6mica Centro Americana
USA ID                    -  US Agency for international Development
vpd                       - Vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
HONDURAS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY ...... ..............                           i -xiv
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......           .........................1
A.   The Distribution of Economic Activity    .........
B.   The Transport System ..........................                 2
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination ....           .......      5
Table 1.1 - Areas of Major Valleys ....            .............     8
Table 1.2 - Urban Population Centers - 1974             ........     9
Table 1.3 - Honduras Natonal Railway - Traffic
and Finance 1970-1975 ....         ............     10
Table 1.4 - Dry Cargo Traffic at Principal Ports -
1970-1975 ............................              11
Table 1.5 - Passenger and Cargo Traffic and
Major Airports 1965-1973 ....         .........     12
Table 1.6 - Public Investments in Transport
1973-1975.13
II.   THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY ........................                 14
A.   The Road  System ..............................                14
B.   The Transport Industry ........................                15
C.   Regulations and Policies .....            .................    22
D.    Future Trends .................................               24
III.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ..............................                 27
A.   The Highway Network ...........................                27
B.   Bank Assistance in the Highway Subsector    ......             27
C.   Traffic Growth and the Road Transport
Industry ....................................               28
D.   Highway Administration ........................                30
E.   Highway Planning and Financing ....            ............    31
F.   Highway Engineering ...........................                32
G.   Highway Construction ..........................                32
H.   Highway Maintenance ...........................                33
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Robert Burns (Economist), Carlos
F. de Castro (Transport Specialist), Raul Paraud (Engineer), and Luis
Enrique Pinilla (Engineer) and has been edited by Miss Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Would Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Table 3.1 - Development of the Highway Network
1964-1974 .......................               36
Table 3.2 - Vehicle Registration 1964-1974 .......              37
Table 3.3 - Highway Expenditures 1970-1975 .......              38
Table 3.4 - Road User Charges and Highway Expenditures
1970-]974 ...........................           39
IV.   THE PROJECT ......................,.,....                       40
A.   General Description ...........................            40
B.   Cost Estimates ................................            45
C.   Financing .....................................            47
D.   Implementation ................................            48
E.   Disbursements .................................            50
Table 4.1 - Design Standards for Project Highways ..            51
Table 4.2 - Tentative List of Maintenance Equipment
Included in the Project ....      ..........    52
Table 4.3 - Summary of Construction Costs .... ......           53
Table 4.4 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  ....           54
Annex to Chapter IV -- Project Implementation Schedule          55
V.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...................................            56
A.   Civil Works ...................................            56
B.   Road Maintenance Equipment ....................            61
Table 5.1 - Actual and Proposed Cropping Patterns for
Irrigated Areas of the Guayape Valley           62
Table 5.2 - Current Levels and Mix of Road Traffic
1976   .................................        63
fable 5.3 - Traffic Projections .....         ...............   64
Table 5.4 - Cost and Benefit Streams Talanga-
Juticalpa   ............................        65
Table 5.5 - Cost and "Benefit Streams Juticalpa-
Catacamas   ............................        66
Table 5.6 - Road and Vehicle Operating
Characteristics ......................          67
Table 5.7 - Vehicle Operating Cost .................            68
Table 5.8 - Farm Size Distribution in the Municipios
of Talarnga and Juticalpa in 1965-1966          69
Table 5.9 - Current and Future Backlog of Road
Maintenance with Current Expenditure            70
Table 5.10 - Reconstruction Costs of Roads not MIaintained  71
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....         ..........   72



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
IBRD-15878 - Organization Chart of the Ministry of Communications,
Public Works and Transport
IBRD-15879 - Organization Chart of the Directorate General for
Highways
IBRD-15880 - Organization Chart of the Directorate General for
Maintenance of Highways and Airports
MAP
IBRD-10395-RI - Honduras - Main Highway Network
This report is based on information provided by the Government, by the UK
consultant Howard Humphreys, Keeble and Partners; by the US consultant
Brown and Root and local individual consultants; and on the findings of an
appraisal mission to Honduras in February 1976 consisting of Messrs. Robert
Burns (Economist), Carlos F. de Castro (Transport Specialist), Raul Paraud
(Engineer) and Luis Enrique Pinilla (Engineer). Additional reports and data
related to the project available in the Bank are listed in the Annex.






STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
HONDURAS
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
A. The Transport Sector
Background
1.        The Honduran transport system is dominated by roads and road trans-
port. Because distances are short and the terrain rugged, railways are non-
competitive, except in the northern coastal strip where specialized banana
railways operate. Road transport carries 86% of the freight tonnage and 96%
of the passenger traffic in the country. The primary road network connects
the two principal cities, San Pedro Sula in the north, and the capital,
Tegucigalpa, in the south, and is designed to service, what were historically
and still are, the most important agricultural areas, the Sula and Choluteca
Valleys and the Atlantic coastal strip.
2.        Aside from infrastructure to serve the banana industry, major devel-
opment of the transport sector began only in the mid-fifties with construction
of the Inter-American highway in the southern part of the country; a modern
all-weather road between Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula was not completed until
1970. Modernization of the principal port, Puerto Cortes on the Atlantic, did
not begin until the creation of a National Port Authority in 1965; and, with
Bank assistance, a deepwater Pacific Coast facility is only now being con-
structed at San Lorenzo. Investment in transport infrastructure increased
significantly in the 1970's, and highway projects are now planned, or under
construction, to complete most of the country's primary highway network; when
completed in the early 1980's, these projects will provide modern all-weather
access to the increasingly important agricultural and timber areas of eastern
Honduras, including the rich Aguan Valley in the north, the Guayape Valley and
the Olancho forest reserve in central Honduras, and the Danli area in the
south. The improvement and expansion of the feeder and access road system, to
which the Government will be giving increasing emphasis over the next five
years, will mean that the country will, for the first time, have an internal
transport network adequate to serve its most important productive areas.
Highways
3.        Because of the topography of Honduras, road construction, in general,
has been difficult and expensive; nevertheless, the road network grew from
about 3,200 km (110 km paved) in 1960 to about 6,100 km (1,240 km paved) in
1975. In addition to the principal roads mentioned in the preceding paragraph,



- ii -
the primary system includes a road southwest from San Pedro Sula to the
El Salvador border and a road along the north coast to La Ceiba. The
country's secondary and tertiary road system is not yet well developed.
4.        The road transport industry, operating in an environment of
virtually no regulation, expanded rapidly in the decade from 1964 to 1974.
During that period, the vehicle fleet grew from 16,000 to 43,900, an increase
of 174%. The most notable growth occurred in the number of trucks, which
increased by 230%. The road transport industry is generally adequate in the
sense that it does not constitute a serious bottleneck to the development of
other sectors of the economy. However, the poor organization of the local
trucking market and the large discrepancy in managerial and financial resources
between small domestic operators and the large international operators has
led to a partitioning of the industry in which Honduran truckers have not had
access to lucrative international traffic. This situation, together with the
serious problem of overloading of trucks, led to enactment of a revised Land
Transport Law (February 1975) which permits the detailed regulation of road
passenger and freight traffic. At present, the Government is restricting its
regulatory activity to passenger transport and a gradual program of control of
truck loading, but it is now considering what is feasible and desirable in
other areas; so far it has refrained from imposing regulations that might harm
what to date has been a reasonably adequate truck and bus industry.
5.        The Ministry of Communications, Public Works and Transport (MCOPT)
is in charge of planning, designing, constructing, and maintaining all roads
in the country, except for a few being built by the Honduran Forestry Devel-
opment Corporation (Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal, COHDEFOR)
for forestry development. MCOPT's highway activities are carried out through
two Directorates: the Directorate General for Highways (DGH), which plans,
designs, and supervises construction of roads; and the Directorate General for
Highways and Airports Maintenance (DGHM), which maintains the road network.
All major construction works are implemented by contracts awarded after
competitive bidding. Some minor improvement works and construction of a few
feeder roads, totaling an average yearly investment of about US$1.5 million
equivalent, are performed by force account. A research program is currently
being carried out with Bank assistance to determine the appropriate labor-
capital mix for constructing such roads. Government-financed works are
normally supervised directly by DGH staff, while externally financed construc-
tion works are supervised by consultants. Despite considerable technical
assistance over recent years, DGH is still heavily dependent upon consultants
for implementation of major projects and still requires additional technical
assistance, particularly to improve the quality of its professional staff.
High staff turnover which results from low civil service salary levels has
been the major factor in limiting the effectiveness of past training programs.
Recently, civil service salaries have been increased somewhat, and there has
been greater staff stability. Additional measures will be taken to provide
MCOPT with qualified, experienced staff.
6.        Highway maintenance continues to be the most serious problem in the
transport sector, accentuated by the overloading of trucks, particularly in
the timber industry. DGHM carries out routine maintenance by force account



- iii -
through its seven maintenance districts. Each district has its own technical
staff, equipment and repair facilities, and two main workshops are located in
Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, but the facilities in these, as well as in the
other district workshops, are inadequate. MCOPT has received assistance from
several international sources for improving and strengthening its maintenance
operations and for the purchase of maintenance equipment. In spite of this
assistance, routine maintenance is deficient, and more equipment is needed to
replace wornout units, many of which are 15 years old or older. The inadequacy
of road maintenance has been due to insufficient annual budgetary allocations,
the use of maintenance equipment for works other than maintenance and lack
of trained staff over the past two years. However, there have been substantial
increases in the maintenance expenditures for maintenance and equipment renewal.
Also, the installation of 12 weighing stations has recently been completed, and
regulations for controlling truck weight and dimensions have been enacted.
Thus, the Government will shortly be in a position to enforce load limits which
should, over time, reduce deterioration of the country's major highways.
7.        Although the development of a local construction industry was
encouraged by the impetus provided by the road construction program of the
early 1970's, the industry still faces a number of problems, caused mainly by
its deficiency of technical and managerial skills and the uneven level of
highway works; improvements in these and other related areas are therefore
needed. Honduras has no restrictions on foreign contractors, who normally
submit bids and obtain contracts for major construction works.
8.        During the 1970-1975 period, about 70% of highway investments
were externally financed. All local funds are provided through the normal
budgetary process, and there is no road fund or earmarking of user charges.
Road users are currently paying taxes and user charges at about L 18 million
annually, of which fuel taxes account for more than L 12 million with annual
road maintenance expenditures of about L 12.0 million. This is considered
generally adequate. However, with increased maintenance expenditures expected
in the future, appropriate adjustments will be required. The precise nature
and level of these charges will be one of the issues to be considered in a
Highway Master Plan Study to be prepared under the project.
Transport Subsector other than Highways
9.        The railway system comprises three narrow-gauge lines, all located
in the north and designed originally to serve the banana plantations in the
Sula Valley, the northern coastal strips, and the upper Aguan Valley. The
Government-owned railway, Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras (FNH), with a
total length of 114 km of main line, runs from the Atlantic port of Puerto
Cortes to San Pedro Sula and into the upper Sula Valley; it hauls sawn timber
and banana exports and agricultural imports, mainly rice. The Tela Railway,
recently acquired by the Government, operates over 179 km of main line,
serving the banana plantation areas of the eastern side of the Sula Valley
and part of the coastal strip. The Standard Fruit Company Railroad still
operates over 157 km of main line and serves the banana plantations of the



- iv -
north coastal strip as well as the upper Aguan Valley. Its gauge is different
from that of the other two, thus precluding interconnection. Consideration
is now being given by the Government to reconstruction of an abandoned Aguan
Valley rail line to haul bananas produced by the Isleta agrarian reform
settlement and other producers to the proposed port at Puerto Castilla.
10.       The port system includes Puerto Cortes, Tela, La Ceiba and Puerto
Castilla on the Atlantic coast and a shallow draft port, San Lorenzo, on the
Pacific; the latter is currently served by lighterage but is being developed
into a deepwater port under the Bank-financed Second Port Project (Loan
767-HO). All ports are operated by the Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP), an
autonomous Government organization which was highly successful in developing
the port of Puerto Cortes and which was subsequently given control of all
ports in the country. Puerto Cortes remains the principal port and accounts
for about two-thirds of all dry cargo movements of the country. It has
adequate capacity and a good operating record. Puerto Castilla is the least
developed and as yet carries no significant traffic. It is, however, the
natural outlet for the Aguan Valley and is a crucial infrastructure element
for the valley development plan. The Bank has recently appraised a project
to improve facilities at Puerto Castilla to serve prospective exports of
agricultural products, timber, and, eventually, paper from a proposed paper
mill in the lower Aguan Valley at Corocito.
11.       Honduras has two major airlines; between them they provide adequate
domestic and international service. The Villeda Morales airport at San Pedro
Sula has a good runway of 2,800 meters; the Toncontin airport at Tegucigalpa
is less satisfactory, with only 1,980 meters of runway; it is barely adequate
for modern jets. However, traffic levels are so low that a major expansion of
the Toncontin Airport will not be economically feasible for many years to
come. With the completion of the road between San Pedro Sula and the El
Salvador border and that between Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, private
automobiles and a good intercity bus and truck service have captured a large
portion of the earlier air traffic, and domestic air traffic generally has
declined steadily since the peak year of 1970.
Transport Planning and Coordination
12.       Responsibility for highway planning lies with MCOPT.  The main bases
of the highway investment plan are: (a) a long-term highway master plan, which
was prepared almost ten years ago; and (b) a long list of proposed projects
which reflect a variety of local interests as well as national development
priorities. Some of these projects have well prepared engineering and economic
feasibility studies associated with them; some others are integral parts of
larger agricultural and forestry development plans and have received attention
only in terms of preliminary engineering analyses and cost estimates. Still
others are merely lines on a map. The main deficiency of the present "plan"
is that it is not feasible in terms of finances or implementation capacity.
Perhaps the most critical need is to attach a realistic cost estimate to each
project in the current plan and to phase these projects, subject to realistic
forecast of fund availabilities. The immediate result of such an effort would
be the realization that very difficult decisions are required concerning



priorities. Such an exercise is within the capacity of the MCOPT staff and
would allow them to focus their limited planning resources on a core of
projects instead of dispersing them over a large number, many of which are of
low priority. The economic analysis of projects is reasonably well understood
within MCOPT, and, with some help, the road investment program could be put on
a sound economic basis. The data and analytical requirements of such an
exercise are modest, and past Bank assistance has been helpful in improving
the data base and the techniques of project analysis. The benefits of such
assistance are potentially large, and the effort should be continued, bearing
in mind the severe personnel constraint in MCOPT and the consequent need to
keep the effort modest and feasible.
13.       Port planning is the responsibility of ENP, a semiautonomous organi-
zation that operates and plans all of the ports of the country. Its manage-
ment has been good and is not subject to frequent change, thus allowing the
development of a rolling five-year plan that includes economic, engineering,
and financial analyses, most of which are done by the port staff itself. The
inclusion of a cash flow analysis in the five-year plan avoids the most serious
deficiency of the highway plan and effectively integrates the annual budget
exercise for the ports into a longer term plan.
14.       Both railway and airport planning are of minor importance due to
stagnant or declining traffic, and major investments in these modes are not
anticipated. The possibility of a short, specialized banana railway to serve
the Aguan Valley and the possible improvement of the airport in Tegucigalpa
(largely because of safety considerations) would require specialized planning
expertise, but this can be obtained through consultants.
15.       The formal transport coordination mechanism involves both MCOPT
and the Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica (CONSUPLAN), attached to
the President of the Republic, which works with the Ministry of Finance in
harmonizing the transport investment proposals of the various modes. For this
purpose, CONSUPLAN prepares both five-year national investment plans and an
annual operational plan for the public sector. However, because of CONSUPLAN's
shortage of staff and the relative independence of the Ministries, the basic
coordination effort now takes place between MCOPT and the Ministry of Finance.
B. The Project
Project Objectives
16.       The main objectives of the project are:
(a) To provide an economic and safe road connection between the
northeastern part of thie country, the consumption centers and
the export outlets;
(b) To determine the complementary investments needed for the
development of the Guayape Valley;



- vi -
(c) To assist in the preparation of an updated highway investment
program to serve as a basis for annual budget decisions;
(d) To assist in the improvement of highway maintenance opera-
tions;
(e) To achieve institutional improvements for a smoother operation
of the Highway Department; and
(f) To improve the management and operational capacity of the
local construction industry.
Project Description
17.       To support the above-mentioned objectives, the proposed project
contains the following basic elements:
(a) Reconstruction, including supervision, of the Talanga-
Juticalpa-Catacamas road;
(b) A study for an integrated development program for the
Guayape Valley;
(c) Preparation of a Highway Master Plan;
(d) Purchase of maintenance equipment, including spare parts,
workshop, and laboratory equipment;
(e) Technical assistance for training the staff of the
Directorates of Highways and of Highway Maintenance,
including fellowships; and
(f) Technical assistance to the local construction industry.
18. The Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road is part of the main link between
Tegucigalpa and the northeastern section, usually referred to as the "Olancho
Region". The present gravel road serves as an outlet for forest exploitation
in the mountainous area to the north and connects the third largest valley of
the country (the Guayape) to the main population centers; it was constructed
almost 20 years ago and, because projected traffic volumes at that time
were low, it was constructed to minimal standards with steep grades and sharp
curves in order to keep the investment costs reasonable for what was essen-
tially a penetration road. Current traffic volumes (about 400 vpd, 50% being
heavy trucks, on the most trafficked section) make it impossible to maintain
the gravel surface to appropriate standards, and vehicle operating costs are
high. Reduced grades and a paved surface will greatly reduce vehicle operating
costs and stimulate production in the area of influence of the road. Recon-
struction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga section is currently nearing completion,
partly financed by Loan 896-HO. Reconstruction of the Talanga-Juticalpa-
Catacamas section to extend the Tegucigalpa-Talanga works to Olancho will be
the major component (85% of total cost including contingencies) of the proposed
project.



- vii -
19.       The Talanga-Juticalpa section of the proposed project crosses rugged
terrain, while the topography along the Juticalpa-Catacamas section is generally
flat; the latter section passes through the Guayape Valley, the area with the
most potential for increased agricultural production in the zone of influence
of the proposed road works. A joint IBRD/IDB/USAID Agricultural Rural Sector
Study indicates that, to achieve this potential, a development program should
be undertaken which should include irrigation and feeder road infrastructure;
agricultural credit, extension, and marketing facilities; and a progressive
land reform and settlement policy. Although some information is available
regarding the valley, there is a need to update and supplement it in order to
develop a project in the area. The Government has advised the Bank that it
wishes to give priority to preparing and undertaking a rural development
project for the Guayape Valley. An IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program mission,
which visited Honduras in September 1976, has concluded that there is potential
for a rural development project to benefit small farmers and agrarian reform
settlements. The IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program will assist the Government in
preparing terms of reference acceptable to the Bank for project preparation
studies to be financed under the proposed loan.
20.       Unless the scarce planning, financial, and implementation resources
of the country are focused on a feasible, time-staged road investment plan,
the annual budget exercise will continue to be unrelated to longer term con-
siderations. The collection of basic data for a Highway Master Plan is being
carried out under the ongoing Sixth Highway Project (Loan 896-HO). The pro-
posed project provides for preparation of a Highway Master Plan based on
these data, and the focus under the proposed project will be on a realistic
effort within the personnel constraint of MCOPT so that the planning process
can be continued with MCOPT staff alone at the end of the period of technical
assistance. It is proposed that the consultants who prepared the preliminary
work for the Highway M4aster Plan be retained to assist in the actual prepara-
tion of the plan. To achieve this continuity, a small amount of retroactive
financing will be required.
21.       A number of organizations have attempted to support the development
of road maintenance in Honduras, and some progress has been made, particularly
in changing the structural organization of DGHM, so that it is generally appro-
priate. Much remains to be done, however, and the proposed project includes
financing for urgently needed maintenance equipment as well as further tech-
nical assistance. The technical assistance will take the form of the devel-
opment of a pilot maintenance district with the help of consultants. Personnel
from the other maintenance districts will then have access to training experi-
ence within an actual functioning operation in Honduras. The consultants will,
in addition, assist MCOPT in specifying the equipment to be purchased under the
proposed project. It has been agreed that the two main maintenance equipment
repair shops in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula will be improved in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank prior to the disbursement of funds for equipping them.
The level of expenditures for highway maintenance and for equipment renewal
during the 1977-1980 period has also been agreed. Further, in order to reduce
road damage caused by overloaded vehicles, it has been agreed that weight and
dimensions regulations for all vehicles which are satisfactory will be enforced
beginning not later than June 30, 1977.



- viii -
22.       The local road construction industry faces a number of problems
gen rated in part by the industry itself and in part by the Government's
treatment of it. These problems (mainly a deficiency in the firms' technical
and managerial expertise and a lack of regulations for dealing with the
industry by Government agencies such as eventual delays in payments to the
contractors) have been identified by the Bank, and the project includes a
technical assistance component to finance a study to make recommendatiuns
designed to remedy the present shortcomings of the industry. It has been
agreed that the Government will enter into a cooperation agreement, acceptable
to the Bank, with the Camara Hondurena de la Industria de la Construccion, the
local construction industry association, to provide for the participation in
these studies.
Project Cost and Financing
23.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$51.2 million equivalent,
as detailed on the following page:



- ix -
US$ Million           FEC
Local    Foreign    Total    %
(a)  Road Reconstruction, including Right-
of-Way                                       10.1       21.0        31.1    68
(b)  Supervision of Construction
(522 man-months)                              1.2        1.3         2.5    50
(c)  Study of an Integrated Development
Program for the Guayape Valley
(33 man-months)                               0.1        0.5         0.6    80
(d)  Preparation of a Highway Master Plan
(56 man-months)                               0.1        0.3         0.4    80
(e)  Procurement of:
- Maintenance, Workshop
and Laboratory Equipment              0.3        2.2         2.5    90
-  Spare Parts                             -        0.3         0.3   100
(f)  Technical Assistance to MCOPT
(65 man-months)                               0.1        0.3         0.4    80
(g)  Technical Assistance to the Local
Construction Industry
(20 man-months)                                 -        0.1         0.1    80 /1
Total Base Costs                        11.9       26.0        37.9    68
(h)  Contingencies:  Physical (about 10%
of Item a)                                    1.0        2.1         3.1
Price Adjustments (about 27% of
base costs)
- For Civil Works                             3.0        6.3         9.3
- For Equipment Purchases                       -        0.3         0.3
- For consulting services                     0.3        0.3         0.6
TOTAL                                   16.2       35.0        51.2    68
/1   Local costs amounting to about US$20,000 not shown because of rounding of
figures.
The cost estimate is based on the assumption that reconstruction works will
be carried out by foreign contractors with some local participation; that
equipment will be procured abroad; that the Highway Master Plan, technical
assistance and study of the valley will be carried out by foreign consultants
with some local participation; and that supervision of construction will be
carried out by local consultants with some foreign participation. Physical



- x -
contingencies have been estimated at 10% of the construction costs, and price
adjustment contingencies have been estimated at 12% p.a. for 1977-1979 and 10%
p.a. for 1980/81 for the reconstruction works, 8% p.a. for the equipment and
6% p.a. for the consulting services. The unit costs for road construction
vary between US$134,000 and US$223,700 per km (excluding contingencies),
depending on terrain conditions. Consultant services and technical assistance
are estimated at an average of US$5,000 per man-month.
24.       The foreign exchange component of the project, estimated at US$35.0
million (about 68% of project cost), will be financed by the proposed loans
with disbursements scheduled to take place from March 1977 through December
1981. All local costs, estimated at US$16.2 million equivalent, will be met
from Government budgetary allocations. The current assessment of the Honduran
economy indicates that sufficient local revenues will be available to finance
the present project.
Project Implementation
25.       Project implementation will be the responsibility of MCOPT, except
for the Guayape Valley study which will be the responsibility of the Ministry
of Natural Resources. Implementation will commence in 1976 and is scheduled
for completion by mid 1981. Civil works are expected to be implemented over a
period of about four and a half years, beginning in early 1977 and ending in
mid 1981. Acquisition of right-of-way will be handled by MCOPT before construc-
tion contracts are let; existing legislation is adequate for the acquisition.
26.       The preparation of a Highway Master Plan, the technical assistance
to MCOPT and to the local construction industry, and the study of an inte-
grated development program of the Guayape Valley are scheduled to commence in
mid 1977, after the selection of suitable consultants, and to be completed by
mid 1979. Agreement has been reached on a detailed implementation schedule of
the project. In order to strengthen the MCOPT staff, it has been agreed that,
as a condition of effectiveness, MCOPT will establish a project unit consist-
ing of three engineers and two administrators, acceptable to the Bank, which
will be responsible for carrying out the project. Also, MCOPT will prepare
by June 30, 1977, a plan acceptable to the Bank for providing incentives
designed to assist in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel. Included
in this plan will be provisions for fellowships to be granted to MCOPT person-
nel who will be attached to highway authorities abroad or to specialized
consultants; in either case, attachments will be for short periods in order
to avoid disrupting the operations of the Highway Directorates.
Procurement
27.       The civil works will be carried out by contracts awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement"; prospective bidders will be prequalified. MCOPT proposes
that, for bidding purposes, the works be divided into four lots and bids be
invited on a "package" basis, whereby the contractors may bid separately for



- xi -
each of the four lots or for any combinations thereof; contracts will be
awarded on the basis of the lower of (a) the lowest evaluated bid for the
four lots and (b) the lowest combination of evaluated bids for each lot.
The estimated cost of each lot varies between US$5.5 and US$9.5 million, and
it is likely that the contracts will be won by foreign firms in joint venture
with local firms or subcontracting part of the works to local firms.
28.       Road maintenance and workshop equipment will be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement". In bid evaluation, consideration will be given to the need
for standardization of equipment, which is especially important in a country
such as Honduras, with a modest economy, limited facilities for repairs and a
scarcity of qualified mechanics and operators. Items (e.g., tools, workshop
equipment) that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$30,000 and will
not: in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of US$300,000 will be advertised
locally and procured in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank. Local procedures will also be applied for the purchase of
urgently needed spare parts and laboratory equipment which only a few special-
ized firms supply up to an aggregate of US$300,000.
29.       The consulting services will be carried out by qualified consul-
tants acceptable to the Bank and engaged by the Government under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
30.       Disbursements will be made at 68% of construction costs representing
the foreign exchange costs of construction and for the actual foreign exchange
costs of equipment; for consulting services, the disbursement percentages will
reflect the foreign exchange costs of the different types of services required
(para. 23). Any funds remaining in the loan account after project completion
will be used for the purchase of additional maintenance equipment. Retroactive
financing for about US$40,000 is contemplated for payment of consulting ser-
vices (para. 20).
Economic Evaluation
31.       The economic evaluation considers, in quantitative terms, the pro-
posed investments in (a) civil works and (b) maintenance equipment. The other
components are dealt with in qualitative terms.
Civil Works
32.       For the economic evaluation of the investment in the proposed civil
works, the benefits have been assumed to be savings in vehicle operating
costs from (a) improved surface condition and (b) length reduction of the road
sections. Benefits accruing to normal and generated traffic have been esti-
mated as separate benefit streams and include time savings only for professional
drivers and helpers on buses and trucks (the savings account for no more than
3% of the total benefits).



- xii -
33.       Traffic projections for normal traffic were based on recent traffic
counts, past trends, and consideration of the future of the lumber industry in
the area. The most recent traffic counts (1976) indicate that traffic on the
Talanga-Juticalpa section averages 400 vpd, of which 50% are heavy trucks.
For the Juticalpa-Catacamas section, the figures are 380 vpd, with 32% heavy
trucks. For the past ten years, traffic on these two sections has been growing
at about 5% per year, and the evaluation assumes that traffic will continue to
grow at this rate until 1986, when the most accessible timber areas will have
largely been exhausted. There is little information on the sustainable yield
of timber from the area, and it may well be that timber traffic after 1986
will remain constant or even decline. It is expected, however, that the
growth of normal traffic will, on a conservative basis, proceed at 4% after
1986 even without very substantial increases in the rate of growth for agri-
cultural traffic from the Guayape Valley. However, if integrated development
of the Guayape Valley materializes (para. 19), it should raise the economic
return on the project.
34.       Generated traffic has been estimated on the basis of reasonable
estimates of demand elasticities, and unit benefits for generated traffic
have been assumed at half those for normal traffic. Reconstruction of the
road is expected to yield a 28% increase in bus traffic and a 17% increase in
truck traffic in the year after its completion, with subsequent growth rates
the same as those for normal traffic.
35.       The economic evaluation shows that the reconstruction of the road
will be well justified and appropriately timed. Based on an economic life
of 20 years, a construction period of four years for the first section and
three years for the second section, the economic return for the road reconstruc-
tion element of the project has been estimated at 15%, with a first year return
of 13%. Separate analysis of the Talanga-Juticalpa section indicates an
economic return of 16%, with a first year return of 14%. For the Juticalpa-
Catacamas section, the economic return is estimated at 11%, with a first year
return of 9%. The greatest element of risk for this project is the traffic
projection. The conservative estimate of growth after 1986, based on the
declining importance of lumber traffic and the slow development of the Guayape
Valley, reflects this risk. A sensitivity analysis indicates that, with
variations of the major cost (+15%) and benefit (-15%) streams, the recon-
struction will still yield an economic return of at least 13%.
Distribution of Benefits
36.       An analysis of the organization of bus and trucking operations in
the area, together with information on land tenure patterns, provides a
general indication of the distribution of the savings in vehicle operating
costs.
37.       The common carrier bus operations in the area, which account for 7%
of vehicular traffic on the Talanga--Juticalpa section and 16% on the Juticalpa-
Catacamas section, are generally organized on a cooperative basis, both for
scheduling purposes and for protection of the operators' interests; buses are
privately owned, and entry into the market is free. The operators may try to



- xiii -
maintain tariffs at current levels after the road is completed, but this
wil  be difficult because other operators, perceiving profits, will enter
tile market, thus increasing the frequency of service. Even if current tariff
levels are maintained, the effects of inflation will mean a reduction in
effect, and most of the savings will eventually be passed on to bus riders
who come from the lower income groups.  Of total project benefits, it is
estimated that those accruing to bus riders will be about 5%.
38.       Cost reductions for owners of automobiles and pickup trucks which
account for approximately half of vehicular traffic will, in general, go
directly to the owners, who are usually the most affluent elements of the
population. These benefits are estimated at 13% of the total.
39.       Truck operating costs will be influenced by the improved surface
and gradients, and reduction in these costs will be responsible for 82% of
the total benefits of the investment even though trucks represent only 50%
of vehicular traffic on the Talanga-Juticalpa section and 32% on the Juticalpa-
Catacamas section. About 35% of the trucks haul timber, and savings attribut-
able to this traffic will account for 29% of total benefits of the investment.
These benefits will initially be passed on to sawmill owners who serve as
middlemen in the lumbering operation, contracting for trucking at the lowest
possible rate in a competitive market. The recent takeover of the lumber
marketing operation by the Government will, however, allow eventual capture
of the benefits by COHDEFOR through truck tariff agreements and price adjust-
mentEs for the sawmill outputs. A truck tariff agreement, which is currently
being negotiated, will make it possible for the Government to implement
weight restrictions without major tariff increases on the project roads and
will allow the state to benefit in the form of longer life for the roads and
reduced maintenance costs.
40.       Truckers carrying agricultural commodities in the area are competi-
tive, and operating cost savings should be passed on to shippers in the form
of lower tariffs. Larger farmers, who hold over 40% of the land in the
Guayape Valley, will benefit the most initially since they are geared to
commercial production. However, there are many small holders in the valley
(under 50 ha), and recent (1976) figures indicate that progress on land
reform is being made there. Sixty-six agrarian reform settlements with
about 1,400 families have been established. Depending on how far the policy
is carried out, more peasants are likely to gain control of valley land, and
the implementation of a rural development project will enable them, and exist-
ing small holders, to increase their share in the benefits of the road. Since
agricultural trucking benefits are estimated at 53% of the total benefits
of the civil works investment, progress on land reform and the development
of a project for the valley will be important determinants of the distribu-
tion of benefits from the project.
Maintenance Investment
41.        Based on an analysis of the entire road network, it has been deter-
mined that the level of maintenance expenditure in Honduras is not sufficient



- xiv -
to keep the current road network at a reasonable standard, and premature re-
construction and high vehicle operating costs have been the result. Con-
sideration of the present backlog and the future net additions to the main-
tenance load indicates that the current expenditures of approximately L 11.0
million per year should be stepped up to about L 19.0 million by 1979. The
economic analysis carried out was designed to determine whether the expendi-
ture of an extra L 8.0 million per year for maintenance will be well justi-
fied, since the Bank contribution will be a part of this increase. This
stream of extra expenditures was compared only with the estimated annual
savings in avoided reconstruction costs and yielded a benefit-cost ratio of
1.7 over a 15-year period. As is the case with most investments in an ade-
quate maintenance program, the expenditure is well justified, and the Bank
contribution to the overall program will yield a satisfactory return.
Studies and Technical Assistance
42.       Benefits from the studies to be carried out under the project and
from the technical assistance have not been quantified. These elements,
however, are clearly justified since they will assist the Government in
determining investment priorities in the subsector, in preparing a program
of complementary investments in the area of influence of the road and in
improving operations in the transport sector as a whole.
C. Conclusions
43.       The proposed road reconstruction is one of the links of the primary
road network that has been developed, for the most part, during the last ten
years. It will provide efficient access to one of the largest valleys in
the country and to the southern part of the Olancho forestry reserve. Access
from the north coast is unlikely to be completed in less than ten years,
making the project road the sole outlet for products from this area. While
COHDEFOR has a program under way for managing the forest reserve, the develop-
ment of the Guayape Valley is less certain, and the proposed study of the
valley will ensure that the Government will have the necessary information
regarding the practicable potential of the valley and the investments and
institutions required to realize that potential.
44.       The investment in maintenance equipment is a part of a larger pro-
gram that is well justified economically and should be of very high priority.
The specified loan conditions are designed to ensure that all actions necesary
to the effective execution of this program will be taken . The technical
assistance associated with the maintenance component of the loan is designed
to improve the implementation capability of the road maintenance organization,
while the covenants and agreements are designed to ensure that the maintenance
program receives the priority it deserves.
45.       The other technical assistance elements are designed to help streng-
then the planning and implementation capability of MCOPT, an organization
that must be improved if it is to deal effectively with the more demanding and
sophisticated planning requirements of the future and to improve operations of
the local construction industry.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Distribution of Economic Activity
1.01      Although Honduras is the second largest country in Central America,
it is estimated that only 17% of the land area is suited for agricultural use.
The rest of this mountainous country, with thin soils and steep slopes, is
best suited for forestry and other extensive uses. The good agricultural land
is concentrated in four widely separated major river valleys, ten smaller
valleys, and the northern coastal strip. The four major valleys are the Aguan,
Sula, Guayape, and Choluteca (Table 1.1). Coffee is produced in the hilly areas
between 700 and 1,200 meters above sea level. Cattle breeding occupies many
rich valley areas where big holdings dominate. Banana plantations are located
in the two most important Atlantic valleys, the Sula and the Aguan. Hardwood
and softwood forest production is grouped around the proposed project's zone
of influence, spreading to the north and southeast.
1.02      The capital and largest city, Tegucigalpa, had a 1974 population
of 280,000, while the second largest city, San Pedro Sula, had a population
of 200,000. Additionally, there are five departments in the country with
urban populations of less than 50,000 but more than 20,000 (Table 1.2). San
Pedro Sula has emerged as the industrial center of the country, with an
estimated 55% of the 1970 manufacturing activity. Together, the two largest
cities were estimated to account for 80% of the manufacturing output of the
country in 1970.
1.03      The Sula Valley and the nearby northern coastal strip have dominated
the agricultural and industrial development of the country. Located in the
extreme northwest, the valley attained a distinct, almost self-sufficient,
regional economy centered on the city of San Pedro Sula, itself about 60 km
from the Atlantic coast and from the main port of Puerto Cortes. To the
south, facing the Pacific coast, is the Choluteca Valley, of considerable
historical importance but having less rainfall and, therefore, less potential
than the Sula Valley. The largest of the valleys, the Aguan, like the Sula,
faces the Atlantic coast in the northeast, but is isolated from the rest of
the country; it has excellent soils and good rainfall and is destined to play
an important role in the future shape of the transport system (para. 1.10).
The Guayape Valley is located in the center of the country to the west of
Tegucigalpa. Its future development and efficient connection with the capital
are among the basic objectives of the proposed project.
1.04      An understanding of the valley-centered regional economies of
Honduras is essential to an understanding of past and future transport devel-
opment strategies. A complicating factor is the transport network required
for exploitation and management of the largest natural resource in the
country, namely the softwood forests in the north central mountainous areas,
where road building is extremely costly and intensive agriculture not possible
or even desirable.  According to forestry experts, most of these areas should
be left as reserve, and managed to provide a sustained growth of timber for
export and domestic purposes, rather than be cut and tilled.  In the western
mountains of Honduras where the timber has been removed, the peasants farm the



- 2 -
steep slopes and thin soils and manage to provide a subsistence type of
agriculture with no real hope of increased living standards unless they gain
access to the rich valley lands, which have generally been controlled by a few
families. For this reason, agrarian reform has become a leading political
issue of the country, and a comprehensive agrarian reform law has been enacted.
B. The Transport System
(i) Highways
1.05      Honduras is essentially a unimodal country dominated by roads and
road transport; the distances are short and the terrain rugged, making rail-
ways non-competitive, except in the northern coastal strip where specialized
banana railways continue to operate. The Superior Planning Council (Consejo
Superior de Planificacion Economica, CONSULPLAN, para. 1.19) estimated that
road transport carries 86% of the freight tonnage and 96% of the passenger
traffic in the country. The primary road network is centered around the
cities of San Pedro Sula in the north and Tegucigalpa in the south. Important
agricultural areas, with the exception of the Aguan and Guayape Valleys, have
access to the major urban areas over all-weather roads.
1.06      While notable progress has been made in development of a primary
road network in Honduras, attention is now shifting to development of
secondary and tertiary roads. Local roads to serve the traffic within the
main valleys have been constructed, but they have not received the mainte-
nance attention that such lower standard roads require. Feeder roads into
the mountainous farming areas, where the poorest peasants live, are costly to
construct and maintain, and the prDspect of large increments in agricultural
production in these areas is small. The low standard road network required
for management and exploitation of the forestry reserves will provide for the
limited agricultural activities in the forested areas, but the western areas
of the country, where the forest has been stripped, will continue to have
serious problems of access.  (The Road Transport Industry and the Highway
Subsector are discussed in full in Chapters II and III.)
(ii) Railways
1.07      There are three small, narrow gauge rail operations in the country,
all located in the north and designed originally to serve the banana plan-
tations in the Sula Valley and the northern coastal strips. They total
450 km of main and branch line and 750 km of sidings and spurs. The Govern-
ment-owned railway, Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras (FNH), runs from the
Atlantic port of Puerto Cortes to San Pedro Sula and along the upper Sula
Valley, with a total length of 114 km of mainline. It hauls sawn timber
as well as agricultural imports ancl exports. Until recently, FNH showed a
profit. Large investments to repair the damage of Hurricane Fifi in 1972,
however, and the reduction of banarLa shipments from damaged plantations led
to a deficit operation of about US$0.5 million per year for the last two years
(Table 1.3). The Tela Railway operates over 179 km of mainline and serves the



- 3 -
pl^rLtation areas of the eastern side of the Sula Valley and part of the
coastal strip. It has access to both Puerto Cortes and the specialized
banana pier at the port of Tela. It was owned and operated by the United
Brands Company in Tela, but has recently been acquired by the Government.
Since both these lines are of the same gauge (1.07 m), their rolling stock
is compatible. The Standard Fruit Railroad operates over 157 km of main-
line and serves the banana plantations on the coastal strip between Tela on
the west and Balfate on the east. The specialized pier at the port of
La Ceiba is the outlet for banana exports. Since the line is a 0.91 m gauge,
there is no connection to the other railroads. A branch line from the coastal
strip through rugged terrain and into the upper Aguan Valley is the only
access, apart from the sea, that it has with the rest of Honduras. Negotia-
tions have been initiated to make the Standard Fruit Railroad a Government
operation also. FNH will then control all the rail operations in the country.
With captive banana traffic and a simple operation, there should be no trouble
in keeping costs down and tariffs at appropriate levels so that Honduras does
not develop a rail deficit problem.
(iii) Ports
1.08      On the Atlantic coast, from west to east, are the four ports of
Puerto Cortes, Tela, La Ceiba and Puerto Castilla. On the Pacific coast,
there is a deepwater anchorage at Amapala on the island of El Tigre with
lighter service to the shallow draft mainland port of San Lorenzo. The ports
are operated by the Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP), a semiautonomous
Government organization that was highly successful in developing the port
of Puerto Cortes and was subsequently directed to take over the operation of
all the ports in the country.
1.09      If liquid cargoes are excluded, the ocean-borne foreign trade of
the country has fluctuated between 1.5 and 2.0 million tons per year for the
last five years, with tonnage reductions in 1974 and 1975 due to Hurricane
Fifi (Table 1.4). There is a large imbalance in tonnage entering and leaving
the country, with export tonnages almost three times import tonnages.
Bananas and timber dominate dry cargo export flows. In 1975, bananas were
38% of export cargo by weight, while timber was 30%. Import tonnages are
more evenly distributed among machinery, foodstuffs, fertilizer and grain.
1.10      Puerto Cortes is the principal port of the country, accounting for
1.0 million tons, or 68%, of dry cargo flows in 1975. La Ceiba followed
with 16%, most of which consisted of bananas. San Lorenzo carried 9%, most
of which was timber, while Tela accounted for 7%, again mostly bananas.
Puerto Castilla as yet carries no traffic of any significance. Puerto Cortes
will continue to be the main port of the country since it faces Europe and
North America, serves the better developed Sula Valley, is well sheltered, has
good facilities, and is well connected by road to the rest of Honduras and
other Central American countries. La Ceiba is likely to decline in importance
when the banana plantations are better linked by road, and perhaps rail,



- 4 -
with the future port at Puerto Castilla. According to a recent consultants'
report, the timber pier at La Ceiba is deteriorating, and a decision to
replace it will have to be made in a few years; La Ceiba is not well sheltered
and does not provide adequate depth for modern ships. A new port will soon be
required at Puerto Castilla to handle the Aguan Valley imports and exports as
well as the output from the timber and chip mill planned at Corocito.  The
Bank has recently appraised a project to improve facilities at Puerto Castilla.
This is only one of the infrastructure requirements associated with the
development of the Aguan Valley. A new port at San Lorenzo on the Pacific,
financed by Bank loan 767-HO (1971), is under construction and is scheduled
for completion in late 1977; it will eliminate the need for the present
lighterage services. San Lorenzo will continue to serve as a major timber
outlet and will handle the expected sugar and molasses exports from the
Choluteca Valley.
(iv) Air Services
1.11      Honduras has two major airlines offering both domestic and inter-
national service. The larger is SAHSA, a private airline with headquarters in
Tegucigalpa. It has a fleet of 14 planes for domestic services (DC-3, DC-6,
Convairs, etc.,), and a Boeing 737, its major revenue earner, for international
service to New Orleans, Managua, San Jose and Panama. The 737 calls at both
Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, offering service between these two points.
The second airline, TAN, operates a 737 out of San Pedro Sula and offers
service to Miami and Mexico City, calling at Tegucigalpa and La Ceiba en
route. TAN also operates three smaller aircraft for domestic service. It is
privately owned and recently acquired a majority share in SAHSA, effecting a
merger of sorts; so far, the operations of the two have not been consolidated.
In addition to the two above-mentioned main airlines, there is at least one
local airline (Aerovias Nacionales de Honduras) operating DC-3 aircraft, which
provides regular domestic service to 20 cities, including the bay islands in
the Caribbean Sea. There are also a number of "bush pilot" services that
provide access to a large number of airstrips in isolated sections of the
country.
1.12      The Villeda Morales airport at San Pedro Sula has a good runway of
2,800 meters. The Toncontin airport at Tegucigalpa is less satisfactory, with
only 1,980 meters of runway, barely adequate for modern jets, and is considered
a hazardous facility. A new airport at Tegucigalpa is a perennial issue, the
rationale being that the capital should have a safe international airport
facility. The low level of traffic would not, however, lead to financial
viability.
1.13      With the completion of the Western Highway and the road between
Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, domestic air traffic has declined steadily
since the peak year of 1969 (Table 1.5). Private automobiles and a good
intercity bus and truck service have diverted a large portion of air traffic,
especially on the Tegucigalpa-San Pedro Sula segment.



C. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.14      Responsibility for highway planning lies with MCOPT, and this
Ministry is subject to the usual pressures of a public works department that
presides over a relatively large investment and maintenance budget affecting
all parts of the country. The main bases for highway investment planning are:
(a) a long-term highway network master plan, which was prepared almost ten
years ago; and (b) a long list of proposed projects which reflect a variety
of local interests as well as national development priorities. Some of these
projects have well prepared engineering and economic feasibility studies asso-
ciated with them; others are integral parts of larger agricultural and forestry
development plans and have received attention only in terms of preliminary
engineering analyses and cost estimates. Still others are merely lines on a
map. The biggest deficiency regarding the present CONSUPLAN plan (para. 1.19)
is that it is clearly not feasible in terms of finances or implementation
capacity, and there is an urgent need to develop a program that is realistic
enough to be of use in the annual budget exercise when the Ministry of Finance
and MCOPT make the difficult decisions about project funding. Perhaps the
most critical need is to attach a realistic cost estimate to each project in
the current plan and to phase these projects, subject to realistic budget
constraints. The immediate result of such an effort would be the realization
that very difficult decisions are required concerning priorities. Such an
exercise is within the capacity of the MCOPT staff and would allow them to
focus their limited planning resources on a core of projects instead of
dispersing them over a large number, many of which are of low priority. The
economic analysis of projects is reasonably well understood within MCOPT, and,
with some help, the road investment program could be put on a sound economic
footing. The data and analytical requirements of such an exercise are modest,
and past Bank assistance has been helpful in improving the data base and the
techniques of project analysis. The benefits of such assistance are poten-
tially large, and it should be continued, bearing in mind the severe personnel
constraint in MCOPT and the consequent need to keep the effort modest and
feasible. The proposed project will make an important contribution to the
continuation of the transport planning effort by providing for the financing
of a new Highway Master Plan.
1.15      Port planning is the responsibility of the National Port Authority
(ENP), a semiautonomous organization that operates and plans all ports in the
country. Unlike MCOPT, it is not subject to pressures from diverse local
interests and generates many of its financial requirements through a system
of port charges. Because of the limited number of ports in the country, it
also avoids the problem of attempting to implement too many projects. Its
management has been good and is not subject to frequent change, allowing the
development of a rolling five-year plan that includes economic, engineering,
and financial analysis, most of which is done by the port staffs themselves.
The inclusion of a cash flow analysis in the five-year plan avoids the worst
deficiency of the highway plan and effectively integrates the annual budget
exercise for the ports into a longer term plan. The orderly environment of
the port planning operation, together with fringe benefits such as subsidized
housing and a training program, allows ENP to attract and retain competent
staff and to upgrade younger staff.



1.16      The Honduran National Railway (FNH) is also a semiautonomous organi-
zation that will eventually be in charge of operating all three narrow gauge
railways. It is a stable operation with little traffic growth, specializing
in moving bananas to the Atlantic ports. As such, its planning operation is
essentially financial and involves projection of revenues and operating
expenses. The capital budget is small and has not required sophisticated
engineering or economic analyses. The proposal to reconstruct the old
rail line from the upper Aguan Valley to the proposed new port of Puerto
Castilla is the only serious new project on the horizon, and consultants
will be hired to do the studies. The current planning staff is small but has
been adequate to date.
1.17      Airport planning is the responsibility of MCOPT, but receives little
attention from that Ministry. With distances so short and incomes so low,
road transport cut deeply into domestic air traffic as the road network
expanded in the 1970's, obviating the need for planning new investments in
domestic airports.
1.18      The two modes that receive most of the transport investment in
Honduras are roads and ports, and they are the subjects of continuous planning
activity. Highways, which control by far the largest budget, accounted for
72% of the 1975 budget expenditure for transport. In the same year, ports
accounted for 20%, rail 6% and airports 2% (Table 1.6). To speak of a trans-
port plan for Honduras is to speak, therefore, of an independently produced
port plan and a highway investment plan.
1.19      The formal transport coordination mechanism involves both MCOPT and
CONSUPLAN. CONSUPLAN, which is a quasi-ministry, was originally intended to
work with the Ministry of Finance in harmonizing the transport investment
proposals of the various modes and to ensure that such proposals support the
national development effort. CONSUPLAN is supposed to deal with intersectoral
considerations as well as intrasectoral ones, such as those within the transport
sector. It has published both a national development plan and an annual
operation plan for the transport sector. In the last year, the division
within CONSUPLAN that dealt with transport matters became ineffective with the
departure of key personnel and advisors, some of whom went to the MCOPT
planning unit, and the basic coordination effort now takes place between MCOPT
and the Ministry of Finance. This is a realistic move which recognizes that
there are simply not enough qualified personnel to staff both the MCOPT
planning unit and the transport division within CONSUPLAN.
1.20      Since intermodal considerations are not generally of major concern
and highways dominate the transport picture, the budget decision for highways
is the major transport investment decision. The coordination required among
roads, airports, and the semiautonomous railroads and ports is handled through
ad hoc meetings and the personal relationships of the heads of agencies,
all of whom know and see one another frequently.



-7-
1.21      With an adequate, independently produced port plan and no serious
problem of intermodal coordination, the major task remaining is to formulate a
highway investment program that reflects both national priorities and con-
straints; this has never been achieved through past efforts of CONSUPLAN or
MCOPT. Technical assistance under the ongoing Sixth Highway Project
(Loan 896-HO) has been aimed at developing a suitable data base and technical
skill that would allow such an exercise to be carried out. The proposed
project includes a component for financing the preparation of a Highway Master
Plan and is the logical extension of the current technical assistance effort.



TABLE 1.1
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Areas of Major Valleys
(Background Information)
Valley                             Area Km2                      % Total
Aguan                                2,288                        22.6
Sula                                 1,841                        18.2
Guayape                             l,155                         11.4
Choluteca                              973                         9.6
Agalteca                               605                         6.o
Paulaya                                582                         5.7
Comayagua                              534                         5.3
La Masica, Este                        388                         3.8
Siria                                  364                         3.6
Talanga                                329                         3.2
Nacaome                                322                         3.2
Yoro                                   271                         2.7
Jamastr,|rn                            261                         2.6
Danli-El Paraiso                       214                         2.1
Total                         10,127                        100.0
Source: Agricultural/Rural Sector Survey: Honduras IBRD/IDB/AID December
1975, Table 1 of Annex 1
April 1976



-9-
TABLE 1.2
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Urban Population Centers - 1974
(Background information)
1974 Urban
Department              Population (000's)             Main city or town
Francisco Morazan             286.4                    Tegucigalpa
Cortes                        219.0                    San Pedro Sula
Atlantida                      57.9                    La Ceiba
Yoro                           45.3                    El Progreso
Comayagua                      35.6                    Comayagua
Choluteca                      34.4                    Choluteca
Olancho                        23.7                    Juticalpa
Other                         122.7
Total Urban                   825.0
Total Rural                1,828.9
Total National             2,653.9
Source: Current Economic Position and Prospects of Honduras, IBRD
Draft Report May 3, 1976
August 1976



- 10 -
TABLE 1.3
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Honduras National Railway: Traffic and Finance 1970-1975
Net
Total 1/         Operating
Cargo                        Total             Operating          Surplus
(Metric                       Revenues          Expenses          Deficit (-)
Year         Tons)     Passengers    (1000 Lempiras)  (1000 Lempiras)  (1000 Lempiras)
1970       510,359      106,769            4,130             2,753             1,377
1971       591,010      102,948            4,146             3,661                485
1972       546,724       76,051            3,410             3,624           -   214
1973       619,378       78,452            4,069             3,659                410
1974       446,348       92,991            3,264             4,277           - 1,013
1975       339,745       98,561            2,380             3,631           - 1,251
1/   Includes depreciation and debt service
2/   Estimate based on eleven months figures
Source: Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras
August 1976



- 11 -
TABLE 1 .14
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Dry Cargo   Traffic at Principal Ports 1970-1975
(Thousands of Metric Tons)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    l975
Puerto Cortes        880    1080    1069    1169    1013    1015
Tela                 210      315     250      206     215      102
la Ceiba             366      369     374      381     313      236
San Lorenzo          128       82     206      209     168      134
Total               1584    1846    1899    1965    1709    1h87
1/ Excludes petroleum and molasses
Squrce:  Trafico de Carga y Estados Financieros por los Anos 1976 al
1980. Empresa Nacional Forturaria, Febrero 1976
April 1976



- 1z -
TABLE 1.5
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Passenger and Cargo Traffic at Major Airports 1965-1973
Tegucigulpa               San Pedro Sula                      Total
Year    Passengers    Cergo          Passengers    Cargo            Passengers    Cargo
(l,oo)       (l,000 lbs)   (1i,00)        (1,C0O  lbs)     (1,OOC)       (1,OOC lbE)
1965        113        11,151              78        8,795              191        20,21[6
1966        125        12,955            109        11,339               23L       24,29L
1967        1 33       1)4,927           112        10,397              245        25,32)4
1968        168        15,15L4           137        11,601              305        26,755
1969        181,       18,121j           167        17,578              351        35,702
1970        213        18,381            200        16,65)4             k13        35,035
1971        17L4       15,855            150        15,306              32L        31,161
1972        152        11,336            109        11,602              261        22,938
1973        1kc3 10,199                  10,3 1,8)                      2L6        20,CILO
Source: Estadisticas de Transporte Aerpo 1973-7hi
Direccion General de Aeronautica Civil, MCOPT, MIay 1975
April 1976



- 13 -
TABLE 1.6
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Investments in Transport 1973-1974-1975
Mode                     Amount (1,000 Lempiras)
1973           1974           1975
Roads .1/        19,800          23,400        34,700
Ports             5,293          15,649         9,433
Railroads           304             297         3,057
Airports          1,769           1,168            872
Total            27,193          40,514        48,062
6ources: j   MCOPT
2/  Plan Operativo del Sector Transporte 1976
CONSUPLAN
April 1976



- 14 -
II. THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY
A. The Road System
2.01      From the point of view of transport, Honduras has four basic road
corridors:
(a)  The National Central corridor, which extends from Choluteca on
the Pacific to Puerto Cortes on the Atlantic, running through
Tegucigalpa (the capital) and San Pedro Sula (the major industrial
center).
(b)  The Inter-American corridor, which runs along the Pacific Coast
from the border of El Salvador to that of Nicaragua.
(c)  The Northwest corridor, which runs from San Pedro Sula through
Santa Rosa de Copan and Nueva Ocotopeque and continues to the
Guatemalan and El Salvador borders at Agua Caliente and El Poy
respectively.
(d)  The Central American corridor, which runs eastward through
Tegucigalpa and Danli, linking the National Central corridor
with the border of Nicaragua at Las Manos. This corridor was
proposed by the Honduran Government as part of the Pan-American
Highway and is due for completion by November 1976.
The above-mentioned four corridors cross Honduras south to north and west to
east with the main purpose of carrying and distributing national and inter-
national traffic, thereby servicing the various economic regions through a
mediocre secondary road system in the west and an incipient secondary system
in the east.
2.02      Additionally, four major road projects, designed to open the un-
populated eastern regions, are in various stages of study, project prepara-
tion, or implementation:
(a)  Santa Rosa de Copan-La Esperanza-Masaguara-Siguatepeque, which
links the National Northwest corridor with the National Central
corridor from west to east, proposed by the Honduran Government
as part of the Inter-American Highway.
(b)  San Pedro Sula-La Ceiba-Puerto Castilla, which runs eastward
and links the two most important valleys in the country, the
Sula and the Aguan, situated along the Atlantic Coast.
(c)  Tegucigalpa-Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas (the Sixth and
proposed Seventh Bank projects).



- 15-
(d)  Talanga-Porvenir-Yoro-Olanchito-La Ceiba, which runs northward
through the vast softwood forests of the mideastern region to
La Ceiba on the Atlantic, and parallel to the National Central
corridor.
2.03      The above existing and programmed road investments will still not
cover the potentially rich eastern region, which accounts for one-third of
the Honduras territory, and, if benefits of the main network are to filter
to the rural areas, secondary and feeder road programs in the eastern half
of the country are essential as a complementary effort to the main road
programs.
B. The Transport Industry
General
(i) Freight Transport
2.04      There are three types of operators in freight transport:
(a)  Individual Operators:  This group dominates the transport of
domestic freight (70% to 80% one-truck owners). These
operators, engaged in the seasonal transport of lumber, grain,
and general cargo, operate to and from main urban centers and
agricultural regions and use the worst road sections; conse-
quently, they have the highest vehicle operating costs. They
compete most actively for cargo and return loads, often operating
at cost level, and occasionally at below-cost level; they over-
load their vehicles from 30% to 60%, are at a disadvantage when
seeking financing (with interest rates of 18% to 25% p.a.) and,
finally, are under pressure from sawmills and commodity purchasers
to reduce rates. To improve the profit margin, they often become
middlemen by buying the commodities they transport from farmers
and lumbermen and distributing (general merchandise and bulk)
through depots.
(b)  Regional Operators:  This is a small group (about 13 companies
with three to 40 trucks each) which works in the Central
American transport market, faces price and commodity control
from foreign owners, and is being pushed from below by the
competition of individual operators searching for expansion.
Regional operators have more sophisticated equipment (over 15-ton
truck units or over 24-ton truck and trailer units), benefit from
the better road network of main corridors, and, consequently, have
lower vehicle operating costs.



- 16 -
(c) Roll-on/Roll-off Operators: This group dominates the international
freight transport. Two USA (Miami) based companies--Coordinated
Caribbean Transport (CCT) and Chester, Blackburn & Roder (Pan-
American Mail Lines)--utilize vessels of their own or operated under
legal waivers by FLOMERCA (Flota Mercante Centro-Americana). Through
agreements on pricing, market distribution and route utilization,
these companies keep control of the USA originated and destined,
general commodity cargo. With an average of 80 trailers per week
through Puerto Cortes (2,000 tons/week - 108,000 tons/year), the
operation appears profitable; it has no connection with the Honduran
economy, except for the US$.57/vehicle mile subcontracting rates
paid to individual truckers for the traction of their trailers,
when such owners are not US-controlled agents. This situation of
freight transport adversely affects distribution of benefits from a
national viewpoint insofar as benefits largely accrue to interests
outside the country.
(ii) Passenger Transport
2.05      Passenger transport firms are better organized, spreading competi-
tion among themselves and accounting for service and maintenance of vehicles.
Rates usually take depreciation costs into account. Less-than-economical
"bus-taxi" type service is now directly confronted by these better organized
firms. Some of the first draft regulations under the new Transport Law (para.
24) will restructure rates and tariffs on suburban and urban passenger trans-
port. The Government will also implement a review of passenger transport
licenses and will give attention to the quality of service rendered. Rural
passenger transport, in areas where feeder roads are in poor condition, is
operated by cooperatives using converted pickup vehicles; nevertheless, the
standards of this service seem to be adequate for rural needs. Security of
all passenger services is poor, and the implementation of adequate regulations
to increase security is of top priority within the Bank-financed technical
assistance program being conducted by the consultant TAMS-Cerna y Maier
(Sixth Highway Project, Loan 896-HO). The flat fare, regardless of distance,
for urban transport services in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula presently leaves
peripheral urban zones with marginal services and is also due for review. The
Government is taking a firm stand on passenger transport tariff regulation as
a result of the new law.
Marketing
(i) Freight Transport
2.06      An evaluation of the industry's ability to organize the sale of
services must focus on the two most important groups of transported products
and on the directions in which such products flow in order to reach the main
markets.



- 17 -
(a) Agricultural produce and lumber from peripheral zones
to main urban centers, and/or storage areas, and/or
export points
2.07      Agricultural production is scattered throughout the country, with
emphasis on the main productive valleys; coffee is produced in the hilly areas
between 700 and 1,200 meters above sea level. Cattle breeding occupies many
rich valley areas where big holdings dominate. Banana plantations are located
in the two most important Atlantic valleys, the Sula and the Aguan. Hardwood
and softwood forest production is grouped around the proposed project's zone
of influence, spreading to the north and southeast.
2.08      Services are dominated by individual transport, with the exception
of banana plantations served by rail. Simple marketing methods, based on the
dual character of the transporter acting as middleman, typify the marketing of
services except in the transport of packed meat from the proposed project area,
where one of the few well-organized, medium-sized refrigerated transport
companies operates profitably and competes successfully in the inter-American
market. To market agricultural production better and to protect their own
geographical areas or commodities, transport men group themselves into coop-
eratives which do not accomplish any marketing or tariff regulating functions;
however, through agreements between cooperatives, they offer their members
return load possibilities, carrXing general cargo from mnain centers to rural
areas.
2.09      Pricing and transport tariffs follow supply and demand, and carriage
is therefore seasonal according to demand. Insufficient silo storage capacity
in the country has greatly influenced the instability of grain prices, and the
consequent price of transport in 1975, by lowering the price of corn from a
forecast (Banco de Fomento) L 15 (US$7.50) per 100 kg to a low of L 9 (US$4.50).
The same seasonal supply and demand oscillations affect the transport of lumber
from production areas to sawmills, and of sawn wood from sawmills to
Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal (COHDEFOR) depots or ports for
export. Here again, the usual practice is for the transporters to buy lumber
from forest owners or contractors and to sell it to sawmills; in turn, saw-
mills sell the sawn product to COHDEFOR. This marketing process causes
sawmills to be the focal point for price policy with the result that the
price of transporting a cubic meter of timber from Tegucigalpa to San Lorenzo
dropped from L 101.46 (US$50.88) in 1973 to L 84.80 (US$42.40) in 1975, in
spite of the fuel increase.
2.10      These primitive marketing practices and organization, the absence of
break-bulk terminals and the tight control of the purchasing monopolies over
both producers and transport middlemen, are reflected in the poor standard
practices of the industry, in the lack of preventive maintenance, in frequent
bankruptcies and change of ownership of vehicles and in one-way overloading
practices; eventually they have a negative impact on the filtering of benefits
to lower levels of population and on the condition of roads in all areas.
Recommendations for improvement of this situation are being made in the analysis
of the Road Transport Industry in Central America, which is now being prepared.



- 18 -
(b) Manufactured and processed goods from Central American
processing centers and from the USA's main cargo center
in Miami, to the main urban centers
2.11      The main processing industries in Central America are located in
Guatemala, El Salvador and Costa Rica, and marketing and tariffs of transport
services for the end products are dictated by the transport companies in the
countries where the product originates. Competition is therefore strong for
the small nucleus of Honduran firms working the national and regional trans-
port market, and return loads are scarce because of the absence of efficient
cooperatives at the regional level and the unequal export-import flow of goods.
The establishment of sales offices at the regional level through a Central
American common market return load system would be a definite improvement in
this middle sector of the transport industry marketing. Appropriate recom-
mendations for coping with the problem are proposed in the analysis of the
Road Transport Industry in Central America.
2.12      The main flow of manufactured products from the USA enters Central
America through the roll-on/roll-off system operated by Miami-based companies.
Puerto Cortes is the natural port of entry for Honduras, Nicaragua and, in
normal conditions, El Salvador. A good return load system, created through
an efficient office network in Honduras and within the region, ensures that
meat, wood and other agricultural products are returned to Miami for distri-
bution. The marketing ability and practices of the two companies involved in
the Central American runs, their important financial investment in equipment
and terminals, the efficient sales coordination throughout the USA, the agree-
ments in force with US operators, and the underdevelopment of the Honduran
transport industry, as well as its difficult financial resources and primitive
marketing organization, make competition in this field very unlikely. Rates
and tariffs are the same as those set by the Federal Maritime Commission in
the USA.
(ii) Passenger Transport
2.13      The transport of persons, often combined with the transport of
freight in rural areas, has a more fluid and natural marketing pattern based
on the quality of service. Competition is keen among the one-owner minibus
licensees in urban areas, although services seem to be adequately priced and
the number of operators seems to match the service demand. Cooperatives tend
to regulate rural transport and protect geographical areas from new entries,
but their full impact is to be noted more in the internal organization of the
cooperatives and the consequent improvement of services. Within inter-urban
transport, certain lines and regions have particularly attractive price
escalations; for example, one of the two licensed companies performing services
to and from Tegucigalpa and the project area is able, through accurate service,
cost and personnel control, coupled with an aggressive sales policy and excel-
lent tariffs, to depreciate vehicles every two to four years, keep preventive
maintenance, and still have 40% profit before taxes.



- 19 -
Organization of the Transport Industry
(i) Legal Types of Association and Administrative Structures
2.14      Types of association change according to different segments of the
industry. There is no type of association found at the individual operator
level other than the cooperative type. Cooperatives protect groups of truckers
in certain territories and commodities against outsiders in their zones of
influence. Limited companies or corporations are common among truckers oper-
ating the national or inter-American markets, and limited companies are also
the most usual type for commodity operators engaged in the carriage of fuel
and bulk products. Administration at the cooperative level is simple, all
matters being handled by the association itself. A rudimentary paternaliqtic
type of management, with more up-to-date personnel organization, can be found
at the limited company level. Methodology and managerial transport practices,
accurate accounting, truck coordination, preventive maintenance practices,
etc., gain ground gradually among private companies and are being used by some
limited companies.
(ii) Service Organization
2.15      Two particular service areas not described in the general classifi-
cation of industry are subcontracting and commodity contracts. Subcontracting
is widely used among brokers and roll-on/roll-off operators; in some cases,
it is a simple way to mask foreign ownership. It is done on a mileage basis
and has an impact on the number of bankruptcies since it leaves the individual
truck owners unprotected in case of breakdown or deterioration of equipment.
The commodity contract is also peculiar inasmuch as it too influences entries
and bankruptcies; commodity producers and/or purchasers (cement factories, oil
distributors, sawmills) agree on a contractual basis for periods up to one
year to furnish loads of a specific type and over a specific route. Owners
find financing (two years at rates of about 18% to 25% p.a.), on the face value
of their contracts, to purchase equipment from importers. If contracts are dis-
continued, as the case is presently with oil and cement, truckers are left with
an unpaid vehicle and no load to carry.
(iii) The Vehicle Fleet
2.16      Seventy to ninety percent of the fleet is composed of 5-10 ton flat
bed, two-axle vehicles. A gradual change is now under way to replace this
type of transport with equipment more suited to the new roads under con-
struction. Since registration of freight vehicles has not yet been imple-
mented, it is hard to give an accurate account of the situation. All equip-
ment engaged in inter-American transport and all the roll-on/roll-off equip-
ment is of higher tonnage capacity, and most of it is of the truck and trailer
type units.
(iv) Operating Practices
2.17      Preventive maintenance is unknown at the individual operator level.
The usual life span of vehicles is up to five or six years, depending on



- 20 -
routes and care. Bus passenger companies and companies operating at national
and inter-American levels have occasionally organized preventive maintenance
and replacement of depreciated equipment. In one case at least, vehicle
replacements (engine units) were imported regularly to be assembled locally.
Depreciation takes three to five years. Import taxes on spares are 25%, while
import duties on trucks are higher.
2.18      Overloading is a general practice, and current rates and tariffs
take overloading for granted (see chart at the end of this Annex). Lumber
carriers interviewed within the project area had an overload factor from 30% to
60%. Grain truckers assume an overloading of 20% to 40%. General cargo compa-
nies operating truck and trailer units had an overload factor of 20% to 30%.
On commodities such as grain and lumber, and due to the nonexistent return load
organization, overloading occurs one-way only, from product areas to main
centers, as may be the case in the area of the proposed project. This influen-
ces road conditions, taking a heavy toll on one side of the road. The Govern-
ment can influence overloading by assisting the main commodity purchasers in
negotiating tariffs (lumber, grain) with sawmills and grain distributors in
such a manner that benefits, which are excellent at the level of the commodity
distributors or purchasers, filter down to the lower levels of the transport
industry. The poor condition of road surfaces also encourages overloading,
making travel time uneconomical for the normal vehicles used (5 to 10 ton
units). The proposed project will cut traveling time from Tegucigalpa to
Juticalpa in half, allowing truckers to increase the number of trips at a much
lower cost.
(v) Institutional Organization
2.19      Transport documentation at the national and international levels
is unified in accordance with the Central American Common Market Agreement.
However, a wide gap exists in the implementation of procedures at the national
level. Customs stations are slow and ill-informed, interpretation of regula-
tions is subjective, and there are no commonly established customs procedures.
Usual documents include the Poliza de Transito (International Bill of Lading),
the proforma invoice, and the inventory. Usual procedures include custom
seals and an accompanying customs man while the vehicle is in transit
(custodio).
Distribution of Benefits
2.20      Benefits from road construction and improvement affect mainly the
road transport industry in the area, the population living in the road's zone
of influence, the marketing of produce from the road's zone of influence, and
the development of the road's zone of influence. If benefits are to be passed
down to the lower levels to affect the marginal population and to complement
social and agricultural development, programs must be carried out, at the farm
level, for feeder roads, transport recovery and improved marketing. Benefit
distribution in the various strata of the Honduras transport and farming economy
has the following pattern.



- 21 -
(i) Individual Owner Transport
2.21      Due to the control of the marketing of lumber and grain by sawmills
and grain banks 1/, benefits of road projects in rural areas are gradually
absorbed by those monopolies unless a strong pricing policy on the Government
side is implemented as a complement to road improvement. Considering the
prevailing conditions in the project area, benefits will directly affect both
farming communities and trucking cooperatives, but they will not affect the
marginal population in the area without complementary investment.
(ii) National and Inter-American Transport
2.22      Distribution of benefits in this segment of the industry follows
a rather more traditional pattern. Better tariff structures and a healthier
competition allow benefits to filter down with better fluidity. It is impor-
tant to note, however, that the high percentage of heavy vehicle traffic of
foreign ownership in certain corridors (e.g., 80% foreign owned between Puerto
Cortes and San Pedro Sula, 90% foreign-owned between the El Salvador and
Nicaragua borders along the Pacific, and 67% foreign-owned between Puerto
Cortes and the Nicaraguan border through Tegucigalpa) means that a high per-
centage of benefits accrue to interests outside the country.
(iii) Roll-on/Roll-off
2.23      No net benefits are left in the local industry by this operation which
accounts for 100% of the manufactured commodities entering Honduras via truck
trailer units through Puerto Cortes. Unless the local industry organizes
itself to compete by means of better-organized sales at the international
level, a matching trucking organization inland, better terminals and/or a
free zone distribution area, it will have very little chance of participating
directly in this business.
Problem Areas
(i)  Underdevelopment of one-half of the country eastward, where a
high percentage of production originates, and the lack of
processing industries in situ causes low volume of input
traveling eastward, high volume of cargo traveling westward,
return load difficulties, and low load factors.
(ii) Insufficient and/or poor feeder and penetration road systems east-
ward cause overcrowding of main areas open to commodities, depopu-
lation of other rural areas, poor land utilization in zones of
influence parallel to main roads, and excessive vehicle operating
costs for lumber and grain transport.
1/   Banco de Fomento and Fanalco (Association of Agricultural Cooperatives)
are the main grain purchasers in Honduras.



- 22 -
(iii) Poor return-load organization causes low load factors and
rentability.
(iv)  Ill-distributed benefits from the marketing and distribution of
lumber, sawn wood and grain cause subsistence level operations
for 75% to 85% of the industry and encourage overloading.
(v) Inter-American tariff and marketing control from Guatemala causes
low profitability for the Honduran trucker, return load difficul-
ties from Central American countries, difficult growth of the
transport industry and consequent transition of ownership from
one-owner/one-truck to several-trucks/one-owner level.
(vi)  USA operators' control of the most profitable area of business
causes underdevelopment of the transport industry, sales and
marketing inability at the international level and a very high
percentage of heavy vehicle use of road infrastructure in favor
of foreign operators.
(vii) Expensive financing causes bankruptcies and industry instability.
C. Regulations and Policies
The Transport Law
2.24      The final revised version of the draft, prepared in 1973, received
important modifications between January 27, 1976 and the day of its approval
on February 23, 1976 in several cabinet meetings subsequent to the examination
of the draft by the Chief of State. The following parts of the law merit
comment:
(i) Article (1) qualifies the transport of persons or freight as a
specific service controlled by the State; it will, therefore,
leave an opening for future implementation, making this law
a tool for control or a channel for persuasion, according to
Government policy;
(ii) Articles (8) and (9.c) are new additions and give wide freedom
to the State to regulate freight transport;
(iii)  Article (4.a.b.) makes provision for duty exceptions on imports
of vehicles and spares when in the interest of public service.
The same provisions apply to materials and equipment to operate
transport terminals;
(iv) Articles (5), (6) and (2:3) deal with international transport
under the principle of reciprocity and acknowledge the Central
American Agreement on Traffic Regulations (approved December 29,
1958);



- 23 -
(v)  Articles (18) and (23) regulate the minimum national capital
required for newly established companies (51%) with foreign
participation and the formalities required;
(vi)  Delineation of freight and passenger services is now adequate;
(vii)  The law points to several areas where draft regulations will
follow:
(a)  International transport of persons or freight
(b) Urban and road traffic
(c) Passenger and freight terminals
(d) Organization of the Consejo Nacional de Transporte
(National Advisory Council for Transport)
(e) Entries and permits, national and international, and
charges to be levied on new permits
(f) Special permits for transport of passengers
(g) Transport of explosives, fuel, and otherwise dangerous
articles
(viii)  The Directorate General for Transport (DGT) of MCOPT is working with
consultants TAMS-Cerna y Maier on implementation of the preceding
regulations, as well as others.
The Policy
2.25      The present policy of MCOPT is to regulate passenger transport fully
and to regulate freight to a limited extent. Communications between industry
and the Government will be channeled through the proposed Consejo Nacional de
Transportes (Chapter III, Articles 12 and 15). However, behind the various
modifications of the present law lies the project of thoroughly modifying the
transport structure by the creation of a Government-controlled Empresa
Nacional de Transporte. This, if done in accordance with the project pre-
sented by the Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP), would not favor the present
problem areas of the Honduras transport industry, but would create a monopoly
for the service of few. 1/
Enforcement of Regulations on Weight and Dimensions of Vehicles
2.26      DGT, with financial  help from CABEI, has built and equipped 12
permanent vehicle weight control stations which are operational and are
1/   The first draft for the National Road Transport Company was published by
ENP in July 1975.



- 24 -
located along the National Central corridor (para. 1) with the exception of two
scales located at the border with Guatemala in the Northwest corridor and at
La Ceiba on the northern coastal road. DGT has undertaken an education
campaign for road users as a first step before full enforcement, and allowing
time after the issue of the new transport law, for the negotiations now under
way between COHDEFOR and the sawmills to materialize into a new tariff structure
under which the ultimate beneficiaries would be the mass of individual truckers
now performing services for the lumber industry. Since anything affecting
transport is a very sensitive economic and political issue, the situation is
being carefully reviewed, and it is difficult to set a date for its final
enforcement since the Government has made no commitments so far. In any case,
the Government is moving in the right direction for compliance with section
4.03 (b) of Loan Agreement 896-HO regarding action to be taken for enforcement
of regulations on weights and dimensions of vehicles.
D. Future Trends
Rates and Tariffs
2.27      On a first appraisal of the rate structure, it seems logical that
the three sectors of the industry in which the main differences of profitability
are to be found should start reducing their gap as soon as the small trucker
is able to compete for loads at the customer level, terminals or ports, by
means of better access roads. These advantages and, in addition, better equip-
ment and facilities and his own better organization will give the small trucker
an incentive to perform preventive maintenance and also to improve his quality
of service; thus, he will transfer a better share of profits from the commodity
groups and international firms to himself. Geographical distribution of the
present road investments, plans for development of access roads in rural area,
and the Puerto Cortes development should have an impact on the above process.
Inter-American and International Coordination
2.28      ENP, supported by the Government, has laid out plans for the formula-
tion of a national transport company conceived with the purpose of gaining
ground in the Central American market. Such a project would be welcomed by
the Honduras transport economy if the project could be integrated within the
present industry and could encourage vertical movement across the various
stratas and improvement of marketing. On a wide scale, the main complaints
by the transport industry are:
-    No participation in the productive and important international
trailer transport market.
-    Minor participation in the potentially productive Central
American market.
-    Absence of an organized network of road terminals.



- 25 -
-    Absence of a nationwide sales and management organizaiton to
coordinate efforts at a private level.
-    Absence of sound financial policies in transport industry
investment.
Sales Promotion, Management and Transport Coordination Organization at
the National Level
2.29      The need to cope with the above problem areas and the need to
integrate the industry in an effort to improve transport would point, with
slight variation, to a compromise between the public sector's idea and the
needs of the country to the formation of a national company with mixed public
and private sector participation dedicated to the organization, management and
promotion of transport and transport sales, with control over free zone and
terminals, ability to establish sales offices both at international (Miami)
and inter-American levels, to contract cargo and subcontract transport, obtain
and promote finance of equipment among associate members, bill out and collect
revenues, and, an general terms, administer for the benefit of many the poten-
tiality of the present market. Tentative conversations along this line have
already started with the Government and public sectors in order to assess
the organizational structure of the projected company and the terms of
integration of the industry needs with the institutional proposals.



-  26  -                                         pi*=  to Chabter II
REPU8LtCA  DE HONDURAS
~MSITEO DE  , ,WU  iCiO , C         ,MAS tUMLCAS Y TRANSPORE
DIRECCION GENERAL DE TRANSPORTE
PESOS Y DIMENSIONES MAXIMAS DE LOS VEHICULOS
DE CARGA CONFORME AL ACUERDO CENTROAMERICANO
SOBRE CIRCULACION VIAL.
PESO             TiPO  DE VEHICULO               PESO              TIPO DE VEHICULO
TOTAL                                            TOTAL
1 l    e-2  1                              P   ~~~~~T3-S2 
12.0-T                                           33.0-T
In.I3      n  mInOm   nlOm.
4000        8000                                  4000  7250 7250           7250 7250Kg
C-3                                       :rC21tR 
18.5-T |=34.5-T 
;   \. 3.Sm lil.Om.TUlqu.  1                                   39 nsi0,,
4000        7250 7250Kg                           4000        8000    8000   72o 750Kg.
~~~~2-SI~T-S                                                   _
20 O-T                                           41. 0-T 
Culue +                                               l.3^^z.Cn.3.7ni rw    lOn .
4000      8000          8000 Kg.                  4000       7250 7T0   8000 sa   0 T250 
T2-S2TT2-SI                                                    R2
!26.5-T                f                          i+ 360-T  'i 
aIqar        in. 35 m        Om
4000    8000              725  7250 Kg            4000     8000   8G0  8000            Kgs
___ __ __ __ _ _   Iinirimo    128 m
Maxinmo 183m     
I                            I*T3-SI  C
26.54                                              N..96.v.W-cla ea-gado 6 dmv.a.cqd0 ..c.d.rd  i
MIn35          16351M               ANCPIO      2:0 ..60o
400O   7250 7250              8000Kge    ALTO         3 60 -             250 p..
|  t   ia    )   iX         l    |   LOitGITUO
I   |  A:,    C    2  1   R2          |   C-2         Co0 0  m          33 00 pe.
28.0-T                                              C-5        1 00               3 600 pNo
-3T        14 0 ..4 00 pnD ,
4000        8000    8000    8000 Kg        n fOiCe0 co .bl..O.dn *- V.  OaIo0P904  600643
rd -  -  redo 1 e 30 .i
N ,q. - F  '. i.0obpoldrd mds d. I 0C0 .9  d 
| 8 i C3  R             2                   .Tn. s O del RO2r iv dh dt.io
|34.5-T                                             E.I.. .... to,C...  0. co eoto1i  COori -
MlmS5 3I. f  I         |          IdiaPOnd* .         d060..,  -d0  1      O lS
4000        7250 7250  8000  8000 Kg
PARA  fP'FNER  GU I N .LES , L_ - iPLICAR  -OiN  P .SA 2.2



- 27 -
III. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Highway Network
3.01      The total length of the road network in Honduras in 1974 was about
6,140 km, of which 1,240 km were paved (Table 3.1). A major effort to expand
the road network was started in the mid-1950's; by 1960, there were about
3,230 km of roads, of which only 110 km were paved. The very rough topography
of the country, characterized by several mountain ranges, makes the develop-
ment of the road infrastructure difficult and expensive. The productive areas
are located along the valleys, most of which are served by good roads; there
are road connections between the major population centers and with the neigh-
boring countries, although some parts of Honduras, mainly in the sparsely
populated east, have few roads. The backbone of the network is the north-south
road, which runs between the ports of San Lorenzo and Puerto Cortes, passing
through Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula; most of the primary system radiates
from this road. Highway projects planned and under construction are expected
to complete the primary highway system within the next few years; all produc-
tive areas will then be served by good all-weather primary roads. Such roads,
in order to fulfill their development purposes, will have to be supplemented
by a feeder road system; the Government is aware of this, and the emphasis is
now being shifted toward the expansion and improvement of the feeder road
system. The Bank, through Loan 896-HO (Sixth Highway Project), is assisting
in such expansion by financing technical and economic studies for about 330 km
of feeder roads and reconstruction of about 80 km of these roads. IDB and
USAID are also assisting in the financing of studies of feeder roads in pro-
ductive areas.
B. Bank Assistance in the Highway Subsector
3.02      This will be the seventh highway project for Honduras financed by
the Bank Group. In 1955, a loan of US$4.2 million (135-HO) was made to
finance the establishment of a road maintenance organization. Three years
later, a loan of US$5.5 million (195-HO) was made, primarily to reconstruct
the main roads between San Pedro Sula and Puerto Cortes, and between Teguci-
galpa and the Inter-American Highway. This project also included the construc-
tion of bridges on the Western Highway between Chamelecon and Santa Rosa to
make the highway passable during the rainy season. All work under these
projects has been successfully completed.
3.03      The first IDA Credit of US$9 million (1-HO) was made in 1961 to
finance (a) improvements of sections of the Western Highway between Chamelecon
and Santa Rosa to gravel standard and the construction of an extension to the
highway from Santa Rosa to the El Salvador border; (b) construction of feeder
road connections with the Western Highway; (c) strengthening of the highway
maintenance organization initiated under the first loan; and (d) a highway



- 28 -
transportation survey to prepare a long-term road investment program. The
survey was carried out by Stanford Research Institute, and the report was
issued in 1962. The extension of the Western Highway was completed in 1964,
and other construction works were completed in 1967.
3.04      In 1965, a credit of IJS$3.5 million (71-HO) and a loan of US$6
million (400-HO) were made to finance reconstruction of the North road from
Tegucigalpa to Potrerillos; works were completed in 1971. In 1967, a loan
of US$8.6 million (495-HO) was made to finance (a) reconstruction of the
remaining sections of the Western Highway and paving over its full length;
and (b) feasibility studies for feeder roads and for the Tegucigalpa-
Juticalpa road. Feasibility studies were completed in 1970, and reconstruc-
tion and paving works were completed in 1972. Finally, in 1973, a loan of
US$18.8 million (896-HO) was made to finance (a) reconstruction of the
Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road, (b) improvement of a secondary road and 80 km of
feeder roads, (c) economic and technical studies for about 330 km of feeder
roads, (d) technical assistance for transport planning and (e) a training
program for the staff of the highway department. The reconstruction of the
Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road (the main project component) is scheduled for com-
pletion by December 1976; all other project items are at various stages of
progress. The total amount of highway loans and credits provided by the Bank
Group has thus totaled US$55.6 million equivalent.
C. Traffic Growth and the Road Transport Industry
3.05      Road transport expanded rapidly in the decade from 1964 to 1974;
during that period, the vehicle fleet grew from about 16,000 to 43,900
(Table 3.2), an increase of about 174%. The most notable growth occurred in the
number of trucks, which increased by 230%. Such increases led the Government
to enact a revised Land Transport Law (February 1976), which permits the regu-
lation of freight and passenger transport, in order to organize the transport
industry within Honduras and to improve its competitiveness within the context
of the overall Central American Region.
3.06      At present, the road freight transport industry comprises three
classes of operators:
(a)  Independent owner (individual) operators (70 to 80% of truck
ownership) dominate the transport of local freight; they are
not organized as a group, usually overload their vehicles, and
operate at subsistence level; competition among them is keen;
(b)  Regional operators (about 13 firms with three to 40 trucks
each) operate in the Certtral American transport market; they
are better organized as a group and their operation is profit-
able; and



- 29 -
(c)  Roll-on/roll-off operators dominate international freight
transport. Primarily, two Miami-based US firms utilize a
pool of vessels and operate under various Central American
waivers and flags.
3.07      Passenger transport is better organized than freight transport and
is very competitive; in general, it is a profitable operation.
3.08      Overall, the truck fleet can absorb the freight transport demands,
although seasonally there are surpluses or shortages of truck capacity. The
impact of the industry on the economy of Honduras, the market served by each
class of operator and other characteristics of the industry are detailed in
Chapter II.
3.09      The February 1976 Land Transport Law proposes the creation of a
"Consejo Nacional de Transportes" (National Council for Transport) as an
advisory body for all transport matters; this Council is already operational.
The Directorate General for Transport (DGT) within MCOPT, assisted by consult-
ants (TAMS (US)-Cerna y Maier (Honduras), para. 4.10), financed under the
ongoing Sixth Highway Project, is helping in the preparation of regulations
for implementing the law. At present, it is MCOPT's policy to regulate
passenger transport only.
3.10      Overloading of trucks is a widespread practice, and current rates
and tariffs assume a degree of overloading which is estimated by DGT to be
between 30 and 60%. DGT is in charge of the enforcement of vehicle weights
and dimensions and, with assistance from the Central-American Bank for Economic
Integration (CABEI), has built 12 weighing stations along the main routes.
Information on overloading is now being collected through these stations, but
the enforcement of regulations governing weights and dimensions has not yet
started; DGT has undertaken an education campaign for road users as a first
step before enforcement, which is expected to be put into effect by mid-1977.
Overloading is caused mainly by timber trucks. At present, the tariffs are
dependent upon substantial overloading if the truck owners are to make a
profit. When truck loading is controlled, appropriate adjustments have to be
made on these tariffs, and COHDEFOR is considering a revision of the price it
pays to the sawmills for the timber so that the increase will be passed on to
the truck operators. A complicating factor is that, by Honduran standards,
the present axle load limit of 8 tons is low, and a study to determine to what
extent this limit could be increased is being carried out by SIECA (Secretaria
Permanente del Tratado de Integracion Economica Centro Americana) for the
benefit of all Central American countries. During negotiations, the Bank
obtained assurances from the Government that it will implement, not later
than June 30, 1977, the enforcement of regulations regarding weights and
dimensions of vehicles, not only on the project road (Talanga-Juticalpa-
Catacamas), but also in the country as a whole.



- 30 -
D. Highway Administration
3.11      MCOPT (Chart No. 15878) is in charge of planning, designing, con-
structing and maintaining all roads in the country, except for a few roads
being built by COHDEFOR for forestry development purposes. MCOPT's highway
activities are carried out through two general Directorates: the Directorate
General for Highways (DGH, Chart No. 15879), which designs and constructs
roads, and the Directorate General for Maintenance of Highways and Airports
(DGHM, Chart No. 15880), which maintains the road network.
3.12      About 65 engineers of MCOPT are engaged in highway works; some 40 of
them are in the field. Because of the uneven allocation of funds for major
highway design and construction works from year to year, MCOPT normally engages
consultants for design and supervision of construction. DGH coordinates the
consultants' activities from the Central Office in Tegucigalpa. Maintenance
works are carried out by force account by the Directorate General for Mainte-
nance through seven maintenance districts.
3.13      In June 1970, consultants Brown and Root prepared a Road Inventory.
Consultants TAMS-Cerna y Maier, engaged under Loan 896-HO for assistance in
transport planning, are reviewing the methodology used and will recommend pro-
cedures for preparation of the updated inventory. However, since MCOPT has
neither the staff nor the facilities for preparing such an inventory, the
consultants to be engaged under the proposed project for the preparation of
a Highway Master Plan (para. 4.10) will, among other tasks, produce an updated
Road Inventory as one of its basic components.
3.14      Under Loan 400-HO and Credit 71-HO (North Road Project, February
1965) and Loan 896-HO (Sixth Highway Project, 1973) the Government agreed to
carry out a number of reforms in highway administration, such as improvement
of road maintenance practices, strengthening of the planning unit and creation
of a civil service system. Because of the practice of removing most of the
high and middle level officials from office with every Government change,
very few of these reforms were effected; recently, however, only limited
changes in personnel have been observed. In addition, the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) financed the services of individual consultants for the
design of highways and bridges, maintenance operations and economic studies,
and the Bank is assisting in the improvement of transport planning. The
recent reduction in the movement of DGH personnel, together with the assis-
tance provided by IDB and the Bank, has resulted in a general improvement of
highway administration. Further improvements are expected as a result of the
implementation of the consultants' recommendations on highway maintenance
and transport planning and through the training program to be financed under
the proposed project (paras. 4.11 to 4.13). The MCOPT building is being
expanded to accommodate the additional staff and services.
3.15      One of the problems confronting MCOPT is that of the low salary
scales for Government officials, which causes an exodus of qualified or
trained personnel.  Because of the financial and political implications,
the revision of salary scales for t:he public sector is generally not an



- 31 -
easy task; however, MCOPT has agreed to prepare a plan of action for engaging
and retaining qualified personnel, including bonus payments and other incen-
tives. During negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances from the Government
that it will prepare, by mid 1977, a plan of action for recruiting and retain-
ing DGH and DGHM personnel in service and that it will discuss with the Bank
the steps to be taken for implementing the plan.
E. Highway Planning and Financing
3.16      As indicated in paragraphs 1.14 and 1.18 through 1.21, the current
highway planning process is deficient in several areas. Despite the efforts
made under previous Bank-financed projects, traffic data are not collected
regularly by MCOPT; however, consultants have carried out traffic counts for
feasibility studies, and DGT conducts sporadic traffic counts on the main
roads. The situation is expected to improve substantially soon, when the
counting stations located at the 12 weighing stations start to operate by the
third quarter of 1976; traffic counters are now installed at the weighing
stations, but counts are not yet regularly taken. The technical assistance
for transport planning being provided under Loan 896-HO is helping MCOPT in
establishing a proper data collection system and in the further evaluation of
the data.
3.17      In 1972, CONSUPLAN prepared a six-year investment program (1972-
1977) totaling about L 290.0 million (US$145.0 million equivalent), of which
about 80% was to be devoted to road improvement. Subsequently, CONSUPLAN
prepared a revised program covering the 1974-1978 period; however, the effects
of Hurricane Fifi and the COHDEFOR road program have made this plan obsolete
and it has not been revised. All of these investment programs are, in fact,
listings of projects, including their description and preliminary cost esti-
mates, but they do not include any economic analysis. The Highway Master Plan
to be financed under the proposed project will provide a good basis for
selecting priority projects within the highway subsector.
3.18      During the 1970-1975 period, about 70% of highway investments were
externally financed. However, all allocations pass through the normal budget-
ary process, and there is no road fund or earmarking of user charges. Road
users are currently paying taxes and user charges at about L 18 million
annually, of which fuel taxes account for more than L 12 million with annual
road maintenance expenditures of about L 12 million. This is considered
generally adequate for pricing of intercity roads infrastructure. However,
with increased maintenance expenditures expected in the future, appropriate
adjustments will be required. The precise nature and level of these charges
will be one of the issues to be considered in a Highway Master Plan Study to
be prepared under the project.



- 32 -
F. Highway Engineering
3.19      DGH has a set of geometric design standards for road construction
which takes into account the type of terrain and the traffic; these standards
have been coordinated with those agreed upon for the five Central American
countries. When major construction is to be carried out, as in the case of
the proposed project, the consultants are asked to adjust the design standards
to the specific project. Although soil investigations were insufficient in
the past, the use of seismographic methods has been established recently, and
the results have been provided to the contractors for their estimating.
3.20      DGH undertakes some design for minor improvements or for feeder
roads, but design is more usually carried out by consulting firms. There are
at least five competent local consulting firms, and these are widely used by
DGH; there are also three joint ventures of foreign/local consulting firms
that are active in highway works and that have permanent offices in Honduras;
with the increased activity and strength of the local firms, the foreign firms
are being progressively phased out.
G. Highway Construction
3.21      DGH is responsible for road construction works; all major works are
carried out by means of contracts awarded after competitive bidding. Some
minor improvement works and construction of a few feeder roads, totaling an
average yearly investment of about L 3.0 million equivalent, are performed
by force account. Government-financed works are normally supervised by DGH
staff, while externally financed construction works are supervised by consult-
ants.
3.22      The local road construction industry is facing a number of problems
generated in part from the industry itself and in part from the Government's
treatment of the industry. Such problems are mainly:
(a) A deficiency in the firms' technical and managerial
expertise;
(b) The fluctuating load on the industry derived from the
uneven flow of funds for highway works, adversely affecting
the industry investment decisions;
(c) MCOPT's delays in payments to the contractors; and
(d) Lack of regulations for dealing with the industry by
Government agencies.



- 33 -
A review of the industry and of Government policy and practices vis-a-vis
the industry is needed, and a study to help in diagnosing the present short-
comings of the industry is included in the proposed project (para. 4.14).
3.23      The Honduran Chamber of the Construction Industry has registered
some 11 local firms specialized in highway works with working capacities
ranging from US$50,000 to US$500,000 per year; in addition, there are a number
of small firms that carry out minor bridge, culvert and earth works. There
are also about four foreign and joint ventures of local/foreign firms with
permanent offices in Honduras that normally submit bids and obtain contracts
for major construction works. Honduras has no restrictions regarding foreign
contractors bidding for Government-financed contracts. Contractors may
import equipment and materials free of customs duties, but the equipment
must be reexported upon completion of contracted works; if it remains in
the country, customs duties must be paid.
3.24      Registration and prequalification of local and foreign contractors
are normally required for highway works. The "Colegio de Ingenieros Civiles"
maintains a register of contractors, and, for the submission of bids, a certif-
icate of registration from the "Colegio" is required. This rule applies to
both local and foreign contractors, and, so far, the latter have not had any
problems regarding their registration.
H. Highway Maintenance
3.25      DGHM performs routine maintenance by force account through its seven
maintenance districts. Each district has its own technical staff, equipment
and repair facilities. The two main workshops are located in Tegucigalpa and
San Pedro Sula, but the facilities in these, as well as in the other district
workshops, are deficient.  DGHM recently awarded a contract for the construc-
tion of a new building within the compound of the Tegucigalpa workshop to
improve its operations; however, the workshop equipment, in general, is old
and needs replacement.
3.26      DGHM has a staff of about 40 engineers and a labor force of about
1,800; a detailed programming of works, district by district, was established
recently, and an evaluation of this new system was carried out in May 1976.
A problem arose recently regarding the equipment, part of which, by order of
senior Government officials, had been used for works other than maintenance;
under pressure from DGHM staff to stop such misuse of equipment, MCOPT decided
to create a special unit with its own equipment and resources to carry out
these other works. Since the proposed loan would finance maintenance equip-
ment (para. 4.08), the Bank obtained assurances from the Government during
negotiations that the Bank-financed maintenance equipment will be used
solely for maintenance purposes.



- 34 -
3.27      MCOPT has received assistance from several sources for improving
and strengthening its maintenance operations and equipment.  Initially,
the Bank, through Credit 1-HO (Western Highway Extension Project, 1961),
assisted MCOPT with the financing of consulting services and maintenance
equipment totaling about US$1.0 million equivalent; however, because of
the shortage of budgetary allocations for routine maintenance and for the
replacement of wornout equipment, maintenance deteriorated. The MCOPT
authorities have recently tried to correct this situation, and some progress
has been made: (a) in 1971, IDB provided US$2.6 million to finance consult-
ing services and mai-tenance equipment; (b) in 1972, DGHM was reorganized
as a separate depar nent within MCOPT in order to increase the efficiency
of maintenance operations; (c) in 1973, the US Export-Import Bank provided
US$1.2 million for the same purpose; and (d) in February 1976, the Government
purchased maintenance equipment through a supplier's credit that amounted
to US$1.3 million equivalent. In spite of such assistance, more equipment
is needed to replace wornout units, many of which are 15 years old and over.
The present project will provide US$2.8 million for this purpose (para. 4.08).
3.28      Through financing provided under IDB Loan 291 SF/HO, consultants
were engaged in 1971 for the following:
(a) improving the accounting and administrative operations of
highway maintenance (carried out by consultants Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell Co.);
(b) reorganizing warehouse operations and the control of stocks and
expediting the supply methods (carried out by the individual
consultant Eng. E. Escobedo); and
(c) reorganizing the Highway Maintenance Directorate to improve
its field operations and making an analysis of equipment
needs (carried out by the individual consultant Eng. A. Sanchez
Araya).
Some of the recommendations of these studies have been implemented, but one
of the problems at present is the slowness of the method used for importation
of emergency spare parts; as is the case for all Government supplies, such
procurement must be made through a Central Supply Office in Tegucigalpa.
Discussions are being held for expediting these supply procedures, and,
in the meantime, DGHM has been provided with a revolving fund for emergency
purchases.



- 35 -
3.29       As can be seen in Table 3.3, the yearly expenditures for mainte-
nance have been rather erratic, but, starting from 1974, they were increased
substantially; for 1975, expenditures amounted to L 10.7 million, and for
1976, the allocation is L 12.0 million. These figures show the growing
importance that MCOPT gives to highway maintenance. For the forthcoming
years, however, these amounts should be increased to allow for operation of
the equipment to be purchased under the present loan; the following estimates
of minimum requirements for highway maintenance and for equipment renewal for
the period 1977-1980 were agreed during negotiations:
Minimum Level of Expenditures
Years                     Highway Maintenance          Equipment Renewal
 ------- Millions of Lempiras -------
1977                              14.0                       1.4
1978                              16.0                       1.5
1979                              18.5                       1.7
1980                              21.0                       1.9



-36 -
TABLE 3. i
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network 1964-1974
(in kilometers)
Year      Paved       Gravel      Earth       Total
1964        382       1,805       1,408       3,595
1965        407       1,852       1,380       3,639
1966        407       1,928       1,713       4,048
1967        416       1,978       1,955       4,349
1968        472       2,120       1,976       4,570
1969        622       2,102       2,004       4,728
1970        745       2,162       2,033       4,940
1971      1,168       2,988       1,433       5,589
1972      1,228       3,028       1,490       5,746
1973      1,228       3,225       1,490       5,943
1974      1,240       3,406       1,490       6,136
Source: MCOPT
March 1976



- 37 -
TABLE 3.2
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration 1964-1974
Year       Total        Cars       Buses      Trucks -Various
1964      16,002       8,759       1,217       5,909            117
1965      18,797      10,273       1,526       6,682            316
1966      21,609      11,786       1,784       7,871            168
1967      22,560      12,042       1,704       8,784             30
1968      24,748      11,c45       1,982      11,617            104
1969      27,527      12,254       2,198      12,950            125
1970      28,706      12,630       2,296      13,492            288
1971      30,614      13,765       2,066      14,755             28
1972      34,421      15,293       2,420      15,116          1,592
1973      39,940      17,617       2,654      17,921          1,748
1974      43,934      19,379       2,920      19,727          1,f908
/1  Including small pickup   widely used in Honduras which,for
statistical purposes,are classified as trucks.
Source: MCOPT
March 1976



- 38 -
TABLE 3.3
HONDURAS
SEYENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures 1970-1975 /l
(L millions)
Year      Studies      Construction    Maintenance       Administration       Total
1970        0.9            37.8              4.5                0.9           44.1
1971         -             36.7              3.6               0.7           41.0
1972       04             18.3              3.9               0.2            22.8
1973        0.7            19.88                               0.6            25.9
1974        0.7            23J4              9.1               0.8           34h0
1975        2.2            34.7             10.7 L08                         48.4
/1  Includes local and foreign financing.
72  The 1976 maintenance allocation is L12.0 million.
Source: MCOPT
August 1976



- 39 -
TABLE 3.4
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges and Highwmay Ependitures 1970-74
(L Millions)
Revenues -                             Expenditures -
Year    Fuel Tax    Others     Total    Construction   Maintenance    Others    Total
1970       8.7       -1.9      10.6         37.8             4-5         1.8       44.1
1971       9.5        4.1      13.6         36.7             3.6         0.7       41.0
1972      12.1        3.7      15.8         18.3             3.9         o.6       22.8
1973      13.1        4.6      17.7         19.8             4-8         1.3       25.9
1974      12.4        5.4      17.8         23.4             9.1         1.5       34.o
/1  Source:  Contaduria General de la Repuulica
/2  Source:  MCOPT, March 1976
April 1976



- 40 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(i) Reconstruction (including paving) of the primary road be-
tween Talanga and Juticalpa (about 114 km);
(ii) Reconstruction (including paving) of the secondary road
between Juticalpa and Catacamas (about 41 km);
(iii) Purchase of maintenance and workship equipment, including
spare parts and laboratory equipment;
(iv) Consulting services for:
(a)  preparation of a Highway Master Plan (about 56 man-
months);
(b)  technical assistance to the General Directorates of
Highways and of Highway Maintenance, including an
on-the-job training program for engineers, super-
visors and technicians as well as fellowships abroad
(about 65 man-months);
(c)  technical assistance to the local construction
industry (about 20 man-months);
(d)  study of an integrated development program for the
Guayape Valley (about 33 man-months); and
(e)  supervision of construction of items under (i) above
(about 522 man-months).
The project is expected to take about four and a half years (1977-mid 1981).
Some of the above-mentioned consulting services could have been eligible for
financing by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), but the Indicative
Planning Figure for the relevant period is fully committed and there are no
funds available for this purpose in the Special Fund.
(i) Road Reconstruction Works
4.02      The road reconstruction works have been divided into two sections
(Talanga-Juticalpa and Juticalpa-Catacamas) because the sections have differ-
ent volumes and composition of traffic, and, consequently, have different
design requirements and construction periods; the Talanga-Juticalpa section
has the higher volume of traffic and of heavy trucks.



- 41 -
4.03      The proposed works are, in effect, a second tranche of the recon-
struction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas corridor (Map IBRD-
10395-RI); reconstruction of the first tranche (Tegucigalpa-Talanga) is being
financed under the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 896-HO) and is expected to
be completed in late 1976.
4.04      The Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road, when reconstructed, will
facilitate transport of the production from the Olancho region to the
capital (Tegucigalpa). The proposed road generally follows the alignment
of an existing two-lane gravel road which has a poor riding surface, sharp
curves and steep grades and which passes through numerous villages. The
road is not suitable for the present heavy traffic, and the Government has
allocated a high priority within its investment program to the proposed
reconstruction works. Several realignments are proposed to improve the
standards of the road and to bypass the villages.
4.05      The feasibility study for the Tegucigalpa-Talanga-Juticalpa road
was prepared by UK consultants, Howard Humphreys, Keeble and Partners (HHK),
with financing provided by CABEI and the UK Government. It was completed in
1971 and updated by MCOPT in late 1975. Detailed engineering for the road
was prepared by the same consultants and was completed in 1973; it has been
reviewed by MCOPT and the Bank and found to be generally satisfactory. For
the Juticalpa-Catacamas section, the feasibility study was prepared in 1974/
1975 by US consultants, Brown and Root, with financing provided by the Bank
(Loan 896-HO); detailed engineering was completed in late April 1976. The
design standards for the two road sections are acceptable and are indicated
in Table 4.1.
4.06      The proposed reconstruction works will start at the bridge over
the Dulce River at the outskirts of Talanga, which is the terminal point
of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road, now under construction. Three major
bridges (60, 70 and 100 m span) and nine minor bridges with spans ranging
from 10 to 30 m will be built and three existing bridges widened. Because
of the various traffic and topographic conditions, the Talanga-Juticalpa
road has been subdivided by the consultants into three subsections; the
Juticalpa-Catacamas part is considered as one section. For bidding purposes,
the same bidding units have been considered (para. 4.29):
Talanga-Juticalpa                                 Length
(a)  Talanga-Guaimaca                        32 km
(b)  Guaimaca-Guayape River                  34 km
(c)  Guayape River-Juticalpa                 48 km
Juticalpa-Catacamas                               41 km
Total                       155 km



- 42 -
The topography of the first three subsections varies from mountainous to roll-
ing; the alignment climbs and descends between 600 m and 1,000 m above sea
level, following the valleys whenever practicable. For the Juticalpa-Catacamas
section, the topography is generally flat, crossing agricultural lands of the
Guayape Valley, one of the most fertile valleys of the country. Seasonal agri-
cultural traffic and local traffic use the road, as well as lumber traffic
originating from the forest exploitation around Dulce Nombre de Culmi.
4.07      The proposed road will be a two-lane carriageway, with adequate
river crossings; three towns along the route (Guaimaca, Campamento and Juticalpa)
will be bypassed. The design standard allows for design speeds from 40 to 100
kph according to the topography of the terrain (mountainous, rolling or flat)
with a 7.30 m wide pavement between Talanga and Juticalpa and a 7.00 m wide
pavement between Juticalpa and Catacamas.
(ii) Purchase of Maintenance and Workshop Equipment Including Spare Parts
and Laboratory Equipment
4.08      In spite of the fact that budgetary allocations for highway main-
tenance have been substantially increased during the last few years, and
that the DGHM organization is working fairly well, the present annual budget
of MCOPT provides little money for the purchase of new highway maintenance
equipment. The Bank, IDB, CABEI and the US Export-Import Bank have
provided ftnds for the purchase of such equipment (para. 3.27); these sources
of funding are irregular. The result is that DGHM is operating a substantial
quantity of old and obsolete maintenance equipment with very high repair and
maintenance costs, resulting in part-time and ineffective service. In 1975,
MCOPT, assisted by local consultants, prepared a study of maintenance needs
which takes into account the status and age of the equipment now in use and
proposes a progressive replacement of wornout units, considering also the time
needed for improvement of the repair facilities and progressive increases in
the yearly budgetary allocations.  The tentative list of a first tranche of
maintenance equipment now required is shown in Table 4.2, and its total
estimated cost is about US$2.0 million. The same above-mentioned consultants
prepared a tentative list of workshop equipment now needed for improving the
repair facilities in the two main workshops at Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula
with a total estimated cost of US$400,000. The consultants to be engaged for
the training program (paras. 4.11 and 4.12) will assist DGHM in preparing the
final lists of maintenance and workshop equipment to be purchased, as well as
the specifications, and will also assist in analyzing proposals and awarding
contracts. The soils and materials laboratory equipment being used in the two
main laboratories (Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula) is old and wornout, and, if
a proper control of highway works is to be maintained, it should be supplemented
with additional units in order to perform efficiently. MCOPT has prepared a
list of the equipment required, totaling about US$100,000, which will be
provided under the proposed project. The list was reviewed by the Bank and
found satisfactory. The proposed project includes an amount of US$2.8
million to finance all the above-mentioned purchases, including spare parts,
as follows:



- 43 -
Items
(i)  Maintenance Equipment                                US$2,000,000
(ii)  Workshop Equipment                                         400,000
(iii)  Laboratory Equipment                                       100,000
(iv)  Spare Parts (about 15% of (i))                             300,000
Total                                     US$2,800,000
4.09       In order to reduce equipment repair costs and to improve mainte-
nance operations in general, the Bank, during negotiations, obtained
assurances from the Government that it will: (a) improve, by late 1977, the
repair facilities at Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, including the disposal
of the old units which are now stockpiled in these workshops (disbursements
for the purchases of workshop equipment will not be made until the facilities
have been completed and cleared to the Bank's satisfaction); and (b) provide
the necessary funds for highway maintenance. The tentative yearly minimum
level of expenditures for highway maintenance and equipment renewal for the
1977-1980 period were also agreed during negotiations (para. 3.29). Since the
facilities in the present main laboratories are not adequate for the installa-
tion of the new equipment to be purchased, the Bank obtained assurances from
the Government during negotiations that, by late 1977, adequate facilities
will be provided for the installation of the Bank-financed laboratory equip-
ment. Disbursements for the purchases of laboratory equipment will not be
made until the facilities have been completed to the Bank's satisfaction.
(iii) Consulting Services
(a) Preparation of a Highway Master Plan
4.10       The major planning effort in the transport sector has to be concen-
trated on preparation of a highway investment program that reflects both national
priorities and constraints (para. 1.21). Neither CONSUPLAN nor MCOPT's Planning
Office have the staff or facilities for preparing such a program; the investment
programs prepared so far comprise a listing of projects, including description
and preliminary cost estimates, but do not indicate priorities of investments
based on economic analysis (para. 3.17). Consultants TAMS-Cerna y Maier,
engaged under the ongoing highway project (Loan 896-HO) to provide technical
assistance for transport planning, have developed an improved data base for
planning in the highway subsector and have laid the basis for the preparation
of a Highway Master Plan. It is proposed that the same consultants be retained
to assist in the preparation of the Master Plan. To achieve this continuity,
retroactive financing for about US$40,000 will be required.  The proposed
project provides for the preparation of such a plan, which will include up-
dating of the Road Inventory (para. 3.13). During negotiations, the Bank
obtained assurances from the Government that the Plan will be carried out
through terms of reference and by consultants satisfactory to the Bank.



- 44 -
(b) Technical Assistance to the General Directorates of Highways
(DGH) and of Highway Maintenance (DGHM)
4.11      The improvement of MCOPT's highway operations requires not only
the purchase of additional maintenance, workshop and laboratory equipment
(para. 4.08), but also the strengthening of the capabilities of its per-
sonnel through a training program which will cover such areas as design,
supervision of construction, highway maintenance and soils and materials
testing and control. The proposed project includes a technical assistance
component that will provide on-the-job training for MCOPT engineers, super-
visors and technicians; the training will be conducted in Honduras by special-
ized consultants and will also include fellowships abroad for such personnel.
4.12      Under Loan 896-HO, the Bank provided US$150,000 to finance a train-
ing program for highway supervisors and technicians and for fellowships
abroad. The program, which was carried out with the assistance of US consul-
tants, Roy Jorgensen Associates, Inc., was completed in late 1975, but was
limited to audio visual courses and fellowships for highway maintenance
personnel; a review, during appraisal, of the training needs showed that train-
ing in other areas as well as on-the-job training is required.  DGH personnel
will be trained in design, supervision of construction and laboratory controls,
while, for DGHM personnel, an on-the-job training program in one maintenance
district (possibly San Pedro Sula) is proposed; if successful, the experience
gained from on-the-job training could be extended on a nationwide basis.
During negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances from the Government that the
program will be carried out through terms of reference and by consultants
satisfactory to the Government and the Bank.
4.13      The training abroad for highway engineers and technicians will be
carried out through the specialized consulting firm that will conduct the
technical assistance program or, alternately, through other Latin American
Highway Departments where advanced techniques are applied. The personnel to
be sent abroad for training will be selected by MCOPT, in agreement with
the Bank, and will be sent in small groups so that the limited technical
forces of DGH and DGHM will not be seriously affected and the normal opera-
tions of these Directorates will not be disrupted. The fellowships to be
granted under the proposed project will constitute one of the incentives to
be provided in the plan of action to be prepared by the Government (para. 3.15)
for recruiting and retaining MCOPT personnel. The number and duration of
fellowships will be determined in consultation with the Bank.
(c) Technical Assistance to the Local Construction Industry
4.14      The factors that adversely affect the development of an efficient
local construction industry in Honduras have been noted in paragraph 3.22.
The proposed project includes a technical assistance component directed
toward making the industry more efficient and will confront the problem from
two standpoints: (a) the structure and methods of the industry itself; and
(b) the handling of the industry by Government agencies. As regards the
industry, the technical assistance will be carried out by MCOPT in coordi-
nation with the Honduran Chamber of the Construction Industry and will cover



- 45 -
areas such as bidding, cost control, financial planning and management, site
operations and equipment management. During negotiations, it was agreed that
the Government will enter into a cooperative agreement with the Chamber to
provide for the participation in the proposed technical assistance program.
As regards the Government, assistance will be provided to MCOPT in the areas
of prequalification and bidding procedures and their evaluation and contract
management. During negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances from the
Government that the proposed technical assistance program will be carried out
through terms of reference and by consultants satisfactory to the Government
and the Bank. The program is expected to be completed in about one and a half
years (early 1977 to mid 1978).
(d) Study of an Integrated Development Program for the
Guayape Valley
4.15      In order to determine some of the complementary investments required
to develop the area of influence of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road, the
proposed project will provide for the financing of a study of an integrated
development program for the Guayape Valley. This valley, which is the third
largest in the country (after the Aguan and Sula Valleys), has a good potential
for intensive agricultural development. The Juticalpa-Catacamas section of
the road to be reconstructed under the project runs along the Guayape Valley.
The increased agricultural production of the valley will be an important
source of future traffic for the improved road. The IBRD/IDB/USAID Agricultural
Rural Sector Study indicates that, to achieve this potential, a development
program should be undertaken which should include irrigation and feeder road
infrastructure; agricultural credit, extension, and marketing facilities; and
a progressive land reform and settlement policy. Although some information is
available regarding the valley, there is a need to update and supplement it in
order to develop a project in the area. The Government has advised the Bank
that it wishes to give priority to preparing and undertaking a rural develop-
ment project for the Guayape Valley. An IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program mission
which visited Honduras in September 1976 has concluded that there is potential
for a rural development project to benefit small farmers and agrarian reform
?settlements, and the cooperative program will assist the Covernment in prepar-
ing terms of reference acceptable to the Bank for project preparation studies
to be financed under the proposed loan.
(e) Supervision of Construction
4.16      Because of MCOPT's limited staff, supervision of construction will
be carried out by a consulting firm. This arrangement is working satisfac-
torily for the Tegucigalpa-Talanga section (Loan 896-HO). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it will engage consultants
satisfactory to the Bank prior to the start of the road construction works.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.17      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$51.2 million,
including contingencies and right-of-way acquisition. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$35.0 million equivalent, or about 68%. Details
of the project costs are given below:



-46-
Lempiras Millions          US$ Millions             Foreign
Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Component
A. Civil Works
(i)  Reconstruction of the
Talanga-Juticalpa Road  16.4    34.6        51.0     8.2    17.3        25.5      68
(ii)  Reconstruction of the
Juticalpa-Catacamas
Road                      3-6      7.4      11.0      1.8    3.7         5-5      68
SUD Total        20.0    42.0       62.0    10.0    21.0        31.0
B. Right-of-Way                    0.2       -        0.2      0.1       -        0.1
C.  Purchase of Maintenance and
Workshop Equipment Spare
Parts and Laboratory Equip-
ment                           o.6      5.0       5.6      0.3     2.5        2.8       90
D.  Consulting Services
(i)  Preparation of a High-
way Master Plan           0.2     o.6        0.8      0.1     0.3        0.4      80
(ii)  Technical Assistance to
two MGOPT ni.rectorates   0.2     0.6        0.8     0.1      0.3       0.4       80
(iii) Technical Assistance to
the Local Construction
Industry                   -      0.2        0.2      -       0.1       0.1       so -
(iv)  Studr of an Integrated
Development Program of
Guayape Valley            0,2     1.0        1.2      0.1     0.5        o.6      80
(v)  Supervision of Construc-
tion of Item A above      2.4     2.6        5.0     1.2      1.3        2.5      50
Suo Total     3.0      5.0       8.0      1.5     2.5        4.0
Total Base Costs       23.8    52.0       75.8    11.9    26.0       37.9
E. Contingencies
(i) Physical (10% of Item
A)                       2.0     4.2        6.2      1.0     2.1        3.1      68
(ii) Price Adjustment (about
27% of base costs)   /1  6.6    13.8        20.4     3.3      6.9       10,2      68
Sub Total          8.6    18.0       26.6     4.3      9.0      13.3
Grand Total       32.4    70.0      102.4    16.2    35.0       51.2       68
/1  Price adjustment rates as follows:                         US$ Equivalent     /2  Local cost
For civil Works            1977-1979   12%          9.3           component of about
For civil works            1980-1981   10%                        US$20,000 not shown
For equipment purchases   1977-1978    8%            0.3          because of rounding
For consulting services   1977-1901    6%            0.6          of figures.
Total   10.2
- ~



- 47 -
4.18      The construction cost for the Talanga-Juticalpa road was esti-
mated originally by consultants HHK and updated recently by MCOPT on the
basis of detailed engineering; for the Juticalpa-Catacamas road, it was
estimated by consultants Brown and Root on the basis of completed detailed
engineering. The unit prices used for estimating the costs are the same as
those proposed in recent biddings (1976) for similar works. The foreign
exchange cost of construction has been estimated at 68%, based on the assump-
tion that works will be carried out by foreign firms in joint venture with,
or subcontracting part of the works to, local firms. Table 4.3 gives a
breakdown of construction costs for the two project roads.
4.19      The costs for the road maintenance and workshop equipment, includ-
ing spare parts, and for the laboratory equipment have been estimated on the
basis of detailed lists prepared by MCOPT, including local preparation and
delivery charges but excluding import taxes. The foreign exchange component
has been estimated at 90% of total costs.
4.20      The costs of consulting services have been estimated on the basis
of the number of man-months required for these services. The foreign ex-
change component has been estimated at 80% for the preparation of the Highway
Master Plan, the study of the Guayape Valley and the technical assistance to
MCOPT directorates and to the local construction industry, assuming that the
services will be carried out by specialized foreign consulting firms with
some local participation. The cost of fellowships abroad is included in the
cost of technical assistance. For the supervision of construction, the cost
has been estimated on the basis of similar services being carried out in
Honduras; its foreign exchange component has been estimated at 50%, reflecting
the nature of the work, which involves field surveys requiring local middle-
level technicians and specialized workers. The local consulting industry has
been developing recently, and there are several local firms able to carry out
a substantial part of the services with assistance from, or in joint venture
with, foreign firms. A total of about 690 man-months is required for carrying
out all consulting services with an average of US$5,000 per man-month.
4.21      A contingency allowance of 10% of construction costs has been
in cluded to allow for increases in quantities. The contingency allowance
for price escalation has been estimated at 27% of project costs, assuming a
12% increase per annum for 1977 to 1979 and 10% per annum for 1980/81 for
local and foreign costs of civil works from the time of bidding to project
completion; for consulting services, a 6% increase per annum has been included
to cover possible cost increases of these services during project execution;
for the equipment, an 8% increase per annum was included during the estimated
period between placing orders and delivery at site.
C.   Financing
4.22      The foreign exchange component of the project, estimated at US$35.0
million, will be financed by the proposed loan (US$28.0 million from Bank
funds and US$7.00 million from Third Window funds) with disbursements scheduled



- 48 -
from March 1977 to December 1981. The remaining costs, including right-of-way
acquisition, will be met from Government budgetary allocations. The Govern-
ment does not foresee any problem in allocating the necessary resources for
carrying out project works, and the current assessment of the Honduran economy
confirms that sufficient local revenues will be generated for the public
investment program, including the present project. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from the Government that the necessary allocations will
be provided on a timely basis for the execution of project works.
D.   Implementation
(i) Responsibility for Project Implementation
4.23      Implementation of project elements will be the responsibility of
MCOPT through: (a) the Directorate General for Highways for construction and
supervision of highway works, for the purchase of laboratory equipment for
the part of the technical assistance program that concerns the Directorate
and for the technical assistance to the local construction industry; (b) the
Directorate General for Maintenance of Highways and Airports for the purchase
of maintenance and workshop equipment and spare parts and the part of the
technical assistance program that concerns the Directorate; and (c) the
Ministry of Natural Resources for the study of the Guayape Valley.
4.24      Because of the shortage of qualified personnel and the additional
workload resulting from the implementation of the proposed project, DGH staff
must be strengthened and a new unit will be established within MCOPT; the
additional staff required, as estimated by DGH, consists of three engineers
and two administrators acceptable to the Bank. Such additional staff will
coordinate project implementation, and the new unit will control the present
and similar future projects. The additional staff will be engaged and paid
by MCOPT as part of its institutional improvements. During negotiations, the
Bank obtained assurances from the Government that DGH staff will be increased
by at least three experienced highway engineers and two administrators to
assist in the implementation of the proposed project. The establishment of
the new unit will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
(ii) Expropriation
4.25      Expropriation of the necessary land will be performed by MCOPT
before the construction contracts are let; existing legislation is adequate
for this clearance. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that it will make the necessary arrangements for clearing the land
prior to the start of the construction works of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas
road.
(iii) Project Implementation Schedule
4.26      Construction of the Talanga-Juticalpa road is expected to be carried
out over a period of four years, between mid 1977 and mid 1981.  For the



- 49 -
Juticalpa-Catacamas road, the construction period is estimated at three
years (mid 1977-mid 1980). MCOPT has already invited for prequalification
of contracting firms, and bids are expected to be invited in late 1976.
4.27      The preparation of the Highway Master Plan is expected to be im-
plemented over a period of about one year (early 1977-early 1978). The
technical assistance for the Directorates of Highways and of Highway Mainte-
nance is expected to be implemented over a period of one-and-a-half years
(early 1977-mid 1978). For the technical assistance to the local construction
industry and the Guayape Valley study, the implementation is expected to be
made over a period of one-and-a-half years (early 1977-mid 1978).
4.28      The tentative implementation schedule for the major activities
of each project component is shown in Annex 1 to this chapter; during
negotiations, the Government and the Bank discussed and agreed on this
schedule.
(iv) Procurement
4.29      The construction of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road will be
carried out by contracts awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement"; prospective bidders
will be prequalified. MCOPT proposes to divide the works into four bidding
units: Talanga-Guaimaca, Guaimaca-Guayape River, Guayape River-Juticalpa and
Juticalpa-Catacamas (para. 4.06). MCOPT proposes to invite bids under the
"packaging" system, whereby contractors may bid for each of the four sub-
sections separately or for any combination thereof; contracts will be awarded
on the basis of the lower of (a) the lowest evaluated bid for the four sub-
sections or (b) the lowest combination of evaluated bids for each subsection.
The estimated cost of each subsection varies between US$5.5 and US$9.5 million,
and it is likely that the contracts would be won by foreign firms in joint
venture with local firms or subcontracting part of the works to local firms.
Consideration was given to the possiblity of subdividing one of the subsections
(Juticalpa-Catacamas) into a number of small units to give an opportunity to
the local contractors to obtain contracts, but this possibility was not pursued
because: (a) the local firms are now busy carrying out highway works for the
Bank and IDB and most of these firms do not have paving equipment; and (b) MCOPT
has an administrative problem in managing numerous small contracts. The bidding
and contracting procedures for the construction works were discussed and agreed
during negotiations.
4.30      The very high volume of excavation (about 5.0 million m 3) makes the
civil works unsuitable for labor intensive techniques; therefore, for this
road, in spite of an estimated national unemployment rate of 8%, the Government
does not favor substitution of labor for equipment because of a substantially
longer construction period, higher financial cost and lower quality of work.
Consequently, civil works will be carried out by an appropriate equipment-labor
mix based on market prices of inputs. A research program entitled "Development
and Implementation of Appropriate Labor-Intensive Technologies for Construc-
tion and Maintenance of Rural Access Roads in Honduras" is currently being
carried out through consultants, with Bank assistance, to determine the appro-
priate labor-capital mix for construction and maintenance of low standard roads.



- 50 -
4.31      The road maintenance, workshop and laboratory equipmeuLt will be
procured, generally, through international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement." However, in bid evaluation,
consideration will be given to standardization of equipment, which is espe-
cially important in a country such as Honduras, with a modest economy, limited
facilities for repairs and a scarcity of mechanics and operators. Orders for
less than IJS$30,000 up to an aggregate US$300,000 could be purchased on the
basis of local bidding. Competitive bidding in accordance with local proce-
dures or local shopping will be appropriate for the purchase of some spare
parts, laboratory equipment and because the advantages of international
competitive bidding will be clearly outweighed by the delays and the administ-
rative costs involved.
4.32      The consulting services will be carried out by qualified and
experienced consultants engaged by the Government under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank.
E.   Disbursements
4.33      Disbursement of loan funds will be made as follows:
(a) 68% for the reconstruction works to cover the estimated
foreign exchange of construction costs;
(b) the actual foreign exchange costs (CIF-Honduras ports) for
road maintenance and workshop equipment, spare parts and
laboratory equipment and 90% of locally procured imported
items; and
(c) 80% for the consulting services for the Highway Master Plan,
for the technical assistance for the Highway Directorates,
for the study of the Guayape Valley and for the technical
assistance to the local construction industry and 50% for
the supervision of construction.
4.34      A tentative disbursement schedule is given in Table 4.4.  Any funds
remainina in the loan account after project completion could be used for the
purchase of additional maintenance equipment. Retroactive financing for about
US$40,000 is contemplated for payment of consulting services (para. 4.10).
4.35      Disbursements from the Bank loan (US$28.0 million) and from the
Third Window loan (US$7.0 million) will be made prorata in the ratio of 4:1.
A condition for disbursement for the purchase of workshop and laboratory
equipment will be that the Bank should be satisfied with the facilities to be
provided by the Government for the installation of such equipment.



5l -        TABLE 4.1
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Project Highways
Terrain
Flat      Rolling       Mountainous
Talanga-Juticalpa Highway
Design speed (lkn/h)                        100          70             50
Pavement width (m) 7i3C)                              7.30              7.30
Lanes (no.)                                 2         2                  2
Shoulders (m)                               1.85      1.85              1.85
Minimum horizontal radius (m)               300        100              60
Maximum gradient (%)                        4          6                 8
Width of right-of-way (i)                   40        40                40
Design loading for Dridges (AASHTO)1/            HS - 20 - 44
Pavement type- design axle load = 8 ton          Asphalt concrete carpet - 5 ca thick
Juticalpa-Catecamas Highway
Design speed (km/h)                         90        60                40
Pavement width (m)                          7.0       7.C0              7.0
Lanes (no.)                                 2         2                 2
Shoulders (m)                               1.50      1.50              1.50
Minimum horizontal radius (m)               280        100              50
1"i:ximurn gredient (%)                     4          6                 8
'ThiOth of right-of-way  (m)                40        h0                4C
Design loading for bridges (LASHTCt              HS - 20 - 44
Pavement type-design axle load = 8 ton           Douole surface treatment
1/ American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
Source: MCOPT and donsultants
AuRust 1976



TB52-                           4. 2
HONDURAS
SEV,Th. HIGHWAYI PROJECT
Description                                                Number
Self-Propelled Vibrating Rollers (3-4 tons)                         6
Vibrating Rollers (5-6 tons)                                        1
Rubber Tired Roller (4-8 tons)                                      2
Rubber Tired Rollers (11-12 tons)                                   2
DIsera (5 - 7 tons, 60-70 HP)                                       5
Wheel Loaders (1.5 to 2.5 m3)                                       8
Dump Trucks (5 m3)                                                 27
3ff-the-road Dump Trucks (10 m3)                                    3
Asphalt Distributors  (3,700 1.)                                    2
Asphalt Distributors  (5,400 1.)                                    1
IWter Tank Trucks (5 tons)                                          2
Flat Trucks (5 tons)                                                3
Asphalt Transporters (1,500 1.)                                     1
Self-Propelled Road Sweepers                                        1
Self-Propelled Chip Spreaders                                       1
Jaw Crusher (50 x 90 cm)                                            1
Vibrating Screening Plants                                          1
Electric Diesel Groups 180 kw                                       2
Electric Diesel Groups 5-8 kw                                       3
Tractor Truck (40 tons)                                             1
Trailer with Electric Group                                         2
Concrete Mixer (0.3 m )                                             2
Priming Unit (540 1.)                                               3
Asphaltic Surface Heater                                            3
Motorgraders 150-160 HP                                             5
Source: I4COPT and  Eission EstimateS
Anri I 1970



- 53 -
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PrOJECT
Summary of Construction Costs
(Excluding contingencies)
US$'000_
A. Talanga-Juticalpa Road (114 kIm)
(i)   Clearing and Gruboing                         370.0
(ii)   Earthworks                                 10,670.0
(iii)   Base and Surface                            9,410.0
(iv)   Dr2inage                                    2,530.0
(v)   Bridges                                     1 ,60c.c
(vi)   Signalization                                 100.0
(vii)   Miscellaneous                                 820.0
Total    25,500.0
Average cost per hIn US$    223,680.o0
B.  Juticalpa-Catacamas Road (41 km)
(i)   Clearing and Gruboing                           60.0
(ii)   Earthworks                                   1,690.0
(iii)   Base and Surface                             2,290.0
(iv)   Drainage                                       700.0
(v)   Bridges                                        510.0
(vi)   Signalization                                   50.0
(vii)   Miscellaneous                                  200.0
Total _ 5,500.0
Average cost per km US$      134,146.00
Source:  MCOPT and mission's estimates
August 1976



- 54 -               'UhLE 4,4
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHiAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disoursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                 at end of Querter
and End of Quarter                              US$'00C Equivelent
1976/77
Mre rc31, 19-77                                        0,1CC,
Jujne 30, 1977                                         C ,5Co
1 977/76
Septer.oer 30, 1977                                    1,500
DeceTrmoer 31, 1977                                    3,000
March 31, 1978                                         5,000
June 30, 1978                                          7,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                    9,500
Decemoer 31, 1978                                    12,500
kl rch 31, 1974                                      15,000
June 30, 1979                                        18,500
1979/80
Septemoer 30, 1979                                   21,500
iDecember 31, 1979                                   24,500
March 31, 1980                                        27,000
June 3(0, 1980                                       29,000
1 98c0/81
September 30, 1980                                   30,500
December 31, 1980                                    32,000
March 31, 1981                                        33,000
June 30, 1981                                        34,000
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                   34,500
December 31, 1981                                    35,000
Source: Mission's estimates
Assumptions:  Loan signature:  December 1976
Prequalification of contractors: October 1976
Invitations to bid: November 1976
Award of contract: March 1977
Commencement of construction works: Mid 1977
Completion: Talanga-Juticalpa Road: Mid 1981
Juticalpa-Catacamas Road: Mid 1980
November 1976



Qr
.    .       .    .               .    .        .     .              .     .     .    .
.    .     .     .                     .    .    .     .                 .     .    .     .
.     .    .                      .     .    .                       .     .     .                          .     .     .                     .    .     .
.    .     .                      .     .     .                     .     .     .                           .     .    .                      .     .    .
.    .     .                      .     .     .                     .     .    .                            .     .    .
.     .    .                      .    .     .                 .    .     .     .                      .    .    .     .
.    .    .     .                 .    .     .     .                     .    .     .     .                 .     .     .    .
.    .     .     .                .    .     .     .                      .    .     .    .                 .     .     .    .
.    .     .     .                .    .    .     .                       .    .     .
.    .     .                 .    .     .    .                 .    .     .    .                       .    .    .     .                 .    .     .     .
.    .    .     .                 .    .     .     .                     .    .     .     .                 .     .    .    .
.    .     .     .                     .    .     .    .                  .    .     .    .
.     .    .    .                 .    .     .     .                      .   .    .     .                  .     .    .    .
.    .     .    .                      .    .    .    .                   .     .    .    .
.     .     .         .        .     .    .    .               .    .     .     .
.     .    .    .                 .    .     .     .                     .    .    .     .                  .     .    .     .
.     .     .                .    .    .     .                 .     .     .     .                     .    .     .     .                 .    .     .    .
.    .    .    .                  .     .     .     .                    .   .     .     .                  .     .    .    .
.     .     .     .                    .   .     .    .                   .    .     .    .
.     .     .     .                    .   .     .     .                  .    .     .    .
.     .    .                 .     .    .    .                  .    .     .     .
.    .     .     .                     .   .     .     .                 .     .     .   .
.     .    .   .                  .    .     .     .                     .   .     .    .                   .    .     .    .
.     .    .    .                 .    .     .    .                      .   .     .     .                  .     .     .   .
.     .    .   .                  .    .     .     .                     .   .     .    .                   .     .    .    .
.    .     .    .                 .    .     .     .                     .   .     .     .
.     .    .     .                .    .    .    .                  .    .     .    .                      .   .     .     .                 .     .    .     .






- 56 -
V.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Civil Works
(i) The Regional Economy
5.01      The Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road serves three distinct functions:
it provides general access to a large area of the country northeast of Teguci-
galpa, usually referred to as the "Olancho" region; it serves as an outlet
for the timber cut in the mountainous area to the north of the road; and
it connects the third largest valley of the country (one with high agricul-
tural potential) to the population centers. From Talanga to Juticalpa (114
km), the road passes through rugged country and the small Guaimaca Valley.
Juticalpa is situated at the lower end of the Guayape Valley and had an
estimated population of 38,100 in 1974. From Juticalpa, the road passes along
the entire Guayape Valley, 41 km, to the town of Catacamas at the other end.
Beyond Catacamas, military engineers have constructed a 60-km road through
rugged terrain up to the logging town of Dulce Nombre de Culmi. The existing
gravel road to Catacamas was constructed almost 20 years ago and made possible
the development of commercial agriculture and logging in the area. Cattle
raising, however, dominates the agricultural scene, and a successful meat
packing operation for export has been set up at Catacamas. The relatively high
cost of transporting the processed meat to the port of Puerto Cortes can be
borne by this high value commodity. Lower value commodities, such as corn and
beans, are more affected by the price of transport although, in the past,
itinerant truckers from as far as El Salvador have come to the Guayape Valley
to buy surpluses.
5.02      In 1972, a study was made of the irrigation potential of the Guayape
Valley, which indicated that a shift to irrigated intensive agriculture would
change the land use patterns dramatically. In the irrigated areas, pasture
and fallow land would drop from the present 83% to 20%. Bean acreage would
rise from 2.6% to 15% of the cropped area. Coffee, cotton, yucca, rice,
tobacco, and bananas would rise from virtually nothing to significant portions
of the irrigated area (Table 5.1). Many of these commodities are of high
unit value and could be exported considerable distances; the construction
of a paved road will reduce transport costs and make their production
attractive.
5.03      While land use in the Guayape Valley is almost certain to become
more intensive in the future, the outlook for the timber industry in the
adjoining mountains is less predictable. Until 1974, when COHDEFOR was created
to manage the country's forest resources, the private sector was allowed to
exploit the timber reserves of the country almost at will, and the annual
harvest of pine has been increasing by approximately 5% per year. The most
current estimates of the sustained yield of the national pine reserves indicate
that the present annual harvest is greater than the annual regeneration. It
takes about 40 years to produce commercial saw timber, and, at present rates,
the reserves will be cut in 32 years, leaving an eight-year gap in production






- 57 -
before new timber becomes available (assuming that reforestation is carried
out). If the 5% growth in the harvest continues for the next 10 years, the
reserves can disappear in about 20 years, leaving a 20-year gap in produc-
tion. 1/ While commercial loggers are confident of a continued growth in
timber production in the area (8% annual growth rates are commonly assumed),
they clearly are not considering longer term issues. Assuming that COHDEFOR
will eventually be able to control and manage the timber resources in a
responsible way, it must be assumed that timber traffic on the road cannot,
or at least should not, rise much above current levels and that eventually
it will stabilize at a level supported by a sustained yield.
(ii) Current and Projected Traffic
5.04      For purposes of analysis, the road has been considered as two
sections, the 114-km Talanga-Juticalpa section and the 41-km Juticalpa-
Catacamas section. For Talanga-Juticalpa, there are comparable traffic
counts dating to 1964. A straight line fitted to the data for the last
12 years indicates a historical average annual compound rate of growth of
traffic of about 4.4%. For the Juticalpa-Catacamas section, comparable
counts since 1968 indicate a trend line growth rate of 5.7% per year. Current
traffic volumes on the Talanga-Juticalpa section average approximately 400
vehicles per day; 50% of them are heavy trucks. For Juticalpa-Catacamas,
the average 1976 traffic flow is estimated at 380 vehicles per day, with
32% heavy trucks (Table 5.2).
5.05      The most recent surveys indicate that approximately 40% of the
trucks are empty on return, and that from 23 to 45% of the loaded trucks are
carrying lumber, giving some indication of the importance of this commodity
to the local economy.
5.06      The basic determinants for the traffic projection are:  historical
information, a general feeling concerning the future of the lumber industry
(para 5.03), the agricultural potential of the Guayape Valley (para 5.02),
and the need to consider the risks and uncertainties associated with the
projections. The scenario adopted to consider these factors is a growth rate
in normal traffic (traffic that would use either the old or new road) approxi-
mating the historical average of 5.0% per annum until 1986. After 1986, a
4.0% per annum growth rate is assumed reflecting the lack of growth of the
timber harvest and no extra-ordinary effort to use the Guayape Valley for
intensive agriculture. Vigorous land reform efforts and complementary invest-
ments in irrigation, extension services, marketing, credit, etc. would change
this modest growth trend considerably, and traffic could be expected to
increase at a greater rate under favorable conditions. For the generated
traffic that would move only with the existence of the improved road, a price
elasticity of demand for cargo transport of -0.25 was applied to the reduction
in operating costs of trucks with the new road. For passenger traffic, a
demand elasticity of -0.50 was used in conjunction with the reduction in bus
1/   Based on the recent IDB/FAO (CLIFF) Mission study of the Agro-Forestal
Potential of the Olancho Region.



- 58 -
operating costs. The higher figure for buses reflects the fact that passenger
travel in Honduras is a "superior" good in an economic sense and that factors
other than an improved road are required to bring forth new truck traffic.
With these assumptions applied to the vehicle operating cost savings, the
amount of traffic generated when the road opens is estimated at a 28%
increase in bus traffic and a 17% increase in truck traffic due to the con-
struction of the new road. Traffic is estimated to increase from approxi-
mately 400 vehicles per day for both sections in 1976 to about 1,400 vehicles
per day in the year 2000 (Table 5.3).
(iii) Costs and Benefits
5.07      The Talanga-Juticalpa section is estimated to cost US$28.0 million,
net of taxes but including physical contingencies, and to require a four-year
construction period. The figure for Juticalpa-Catacamas is US$6.0 million,
with a three-year construction period. The timing of the investment expen-
diture is indicated in Tables 5.4 and 5.5.
5.08      To maintain the existing gravel road in good condition will, given
present traffic and its growth over the planning period, require constant
organized effort and the expenditure of L 2,800 growing to about L 3,500 an-
nually on each kilometer. Current annual maintenance expenditures are approx-
imately L 1,200 per km, which accounts for the poor surface and high vehicle
operating costs. This analysis assumes that, even without a new road, main-
tenance expenditures will not exceed L 2,000 per km and that the surface
will remain in poor condition. Even with adequate finance, it is doubtful if
the gravel surface could be maintained to a high standard with so much traffic.
With the new paved road, the major surface maintenance effort will be a seal
coat every five to seven years, plus the usual ditch and culvert maintenance.
This is estimated to cost approximately L 2,500 per km per year. Thus, there
will be no maintenance saving with the new road, but rather an additional
cost of L 500 per km per year. The net additional cost is included as a cost
stream in Tables 5.4 and 5.5.
5.09      The chief quantifiable benefits are the reduction in vehicle operating
costs for the project traffic and a 13.2-km shortening of the Talanga-Juticalpa
section.  For normal traffic, the full difference in operating costs is taken
as a benefit. For generated traffic, one-half the difference in operating
costs with and without the investment is used. This is a crude but feasible
approach for estimating benefits of generated traffic, recognizing that unit
benefits to traffic that will move only with the completion of the new road
will be less than those for normal traffic (otherwise it would have moved on
the old road), i.e., less than 100% but certainly greater than zero; hence
the adoption of 50% as a best estimate. Vehicle operating costs for the
traffic in question depend on type of vehicle, road surface, average gradients
and curvatures, and the average speed of the vehicle (Table 5.6). Value of
time for passengers and the drivers of light vehicles is not included in the
estimate of operating costs; only the time of the drivers and helpers is
considered (approximately 3% of total costs and benefits). The operating
costs over the two sections for the three classes of vehicles considered



- 59 -
(light vehicle, bus, and truck) are given for both the existing and the
proposed roads in Table 5.7. The benefits accruing to normal and generated
traffic are shown as separate benefit streams in Tables 5.4 and 5.5.
(iv) Economic Evaluation
5.10      The overall economic evaluation of the Talanga-Catacamas road in-
vestment indicates that reconstruction is well justified and appropriately
timed. As the table below indicates, assuming an economic life of 20 years
and a construction period of three to four years, the economic return would
be 15%, with a first year benefit of 13%; variation of 15% in the major cost
and benefit streams yields a rate of return no lower than 13%.
Road Section      Assumption                Rate of Return   First Year Benefits
Talanga-        (Base Cost                         15                     13
Catacamas       (15% Increase in
(i.e., the      (Construction Costs                13                      _
whole civil    (15% Reduction in total
works)          (Benefits                          13                      _
(Base Cost                         16                     14
(15% Increase in
Talanga-        (Construction Costs                14                      -
Juticalpa       (15% Decrease in
(Benefits to normal
(traffic                           14                      -
(Base Cost                         11                     9
(15% Increase in
Juticalpa -    (Construction Costs                 10
Catacamas       (15% Decrease in Benefits
(to normal traffic                 9
A separate analysis of the Talanga-Juticalpa section yields a rate of
return of 16% with a first year benefit of 14%. For Juticalpa-Catacamas,
the rate of return is 11% with a first year benefit of 9%.
(v) Distribution of Benefits
5.11      The distribution of benefits of reduced user costs revolves around
two issues: the portion of cost reductions that truckers and bus operators
pass on as tariff reductions, and the economic status of the shippers and
travelers who use the services. Cost reductions for owners of automobiles and
pickup trucks would, in general, go directly to the owners, and these people
are usually the most affluent elements of the population. Benefits to this
class of users represent approximately 13% of the total accruing to the road
investment. To the extent that pickup trucks serve as common carriers of



- 60 -
freight and passengers, the benefits of reduced operating costs would be
passed on to users in the same way as they are passed on to users of common
carrier buses and trucks (paras. 5.12 and 5.14).
5.12      The common carrier bus operations in the area are organized mostly
on a cooperative basis.  Buses in the cooperatives are privately owned, and
each owner participates voluntarily. A major benefit is the coordination
of departure schedules, allowing each member to have access to the peak hours
on a regular basis. While operators must have a Government license, entry
into the market is not difficult. After the road is constructed and bus
operating costs drop by as much as 50%, the operators, rather than reducing
tariffs, would undoubtedly try to maintain tariffs at old levels but this
would be difficult because other operators, perceiving profits, would enter
the market, thus increasing the frequency of service. Even if current tariff
levels are maintained, the effects of inflation would mean a reduction in
effect, and most of the savings should eventually be passed on to bus riders
who come from the lower income groups. Benefits to this class of users
represent approximately 5% of the total benefits of the project, assuming
their time is of no value.
5.13      The situation of timber haulers is complicated.  Truck operating
costs will decrease on the new road, and savings will, in general, accrue
initially to sawmill owners since this type of trucking is competitive. As
much as 29% of the total benefits of the project fall into this category,
and sawmill owners have been a relatively affluent group. With timber trucks
frequently overloaded by as much as 50%, the forthcoming Government control
of axle loads will reduce unit trucking revenues, requiring, under normal
circumstances, tariff increases. With the large savings in operating costs
anticipated, it is not clear that tariff increases will be required, and
the new road will reduce the unpleasant implication of load restrictions
since the savings in operating costs will tend to offset the reductions in
revenues due to smaller loads. The savings in road maintenance costs due to
the weight restrictions are an independent set of benefits not associated with
the proposed road investment although the new road, for reasons given above,
will make the imposition of the restrictions easier.
5.14      Of particular interest is the situation for truckers of agricultural
commodities. The trucking industry has been generally competitive in the past,
and, unless the recently passed transport regulatory legislation changes this
situation, savings in trucking costs should be passed on to the shippers be-
cause of the competition. With the completion of the paved road between
Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula in 1971, for instance, trucking tariffs dropped
as much as 50%. Of more relevance is the economic status of the shippers of
agricultural surpluses. Table 5.8 indicates the distribution of farm sizes in
the municipalities of Talanga and Juticalpa in 1965-1966. In Juticalpa, 49%
of the total farm land was controlled by only 2% of the farms, all of which
were 350 hectares or greater in size; 67% of the farms controlled only 10%
of the land, and all of these farms were less than 14 hectares in size.
The situation was similar in Talanga. Under these circumstances, the bulk
of agricultural surpluses of the Guayape Valley are controlled by a few



- 61 -
families. Thus, the benefits of better prices for agricultural surpluses
would also tend to go to a few families. This is not to say that the small
farmers would not benefit also, but, rather, that their share of the total
trucking benefits would be small compared to their numbers. Since agricul-
tural trucking benefits are estimated at 53% of the total, this is an impor-
tant consideration in determining the ultimate beneficiaries. Current
pressures for land reform are high, and progress is being made. Recent
information for the Guayape Valley indicates that approximately 1,400 families
have been organized into 66 settlements or "asentamientos". To the extent
that peasants continue to gain access to the valley land and organize the
marketing of their surpluses, they too would share in the benefits of the
investment.
B.   Road Maintenance Equipment
5.15      MCOPT is currently allocating approximately L 11.0 million per year
for road maintenance. It is estimated in a recent study, however, that this
amount can provide maintenance for only 70% of the current MCOPT road network
of 5,532 km. In order to handle the entire network, it is estimated that
approximately L 15.7 million per year are required. In addition, the planned
construction of new roads by 1979 would require that the maintenance expen-
ditures reach approximately L 18.5 million per year, when the network to be
maintained would be expanded to 6,500 km. At issue here is the question of
whether the extra allocation of L 7.5 million per year is an efficient use of
resources and whether the amount of L 5.4 million provided under the proposed
project for maintenance and workshop equipment, including spare parts, would
be part of an economically justified maintenance program.
5.16      The maintenance program costs and benefits are considered on an
annual basis. Both benefit and cost streams are smooth and continuous.
For this reason, the benefit-cost ratio is a more meaningful measure of the
goodness of the program than of the economic return. The benefits accruing
to the extra level of maintenance expenditure are the avoidance of premature
reconstruction of existing roads and the reduction of vehicle operating costs
on sections not previously maintained. Tables 5.9 and 5.10 indicate the
current and future maintenance deficit and the associated reconstruction costs
if maintenance expenditures continue at current levels. It is estimated that
failure to increase the maintenance allocation will lead to a capital expen-
diture of L 12.5 million per year for premature reconstruction. Since the
annual cost of the improved maintenance effort is estimated at L 7.5 million
over a 15-year period, the benefit-cost ratio at any discount rate, consider-
ing only avoided reconstruction costs, is 1.7. If savings in vehicle operating
costs were included, the benefit-cost ratio would be much higher. It is further
estimated that equipment purchase costs are only 20% of the total maintenance
costs, the balance being materials, wages, fuel, and spare parts. This
implies an annual investment in new equipment for the total maintenance
program of L 3.7 million (US$1.9 milion). The amount of US$2.7 million
provided under the proposed project would therefore finance a full year's
purchase of maintenance equipment plus some urgent deferred purchases. As
is the case with most investments in an adequate maintenance program, the
expenditure is well justified.



- 62 -                        TABLE 3.l
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Actual and Proposed Cropping Patterns for Irrigated
Areas of the Guayape Valley
Percent of Cropped Area       Percent of Cropped Area
CroP         Without Irrigation             With Irrigation
Pasture                  56.9                            20
Maize                    10.6                            10
Beans                     2.6                            15
Coffee                    1.2                            10
Cotton                    1.2                            10
Yucca                     0.1                            20
Rice                      0.8                            20
Tobacco                   0.1                            15
Banana                    0.2                            15
Plantain                  0.3                             0
Fallow                   26.0                             0
Source: IBRD/IDB/AID Agricultural/Rural Sector Study
Annex 8   December 1975
Original source: Consultores Latino Americanos Asociados
(CLASS), Lima, Estudios de Prefactibilidad de Irrigacion,
1972.
April 1976



TABLE 5.2
- 63 -
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Current Levels and Mix of Road Traffic 1976
(vehicles/day)
Talanga-Juticalpa
Vehicle Type              Number               % of Total
Light Vehicles             172                     43
Buses                       28                     7
Trucks                     200                    5
Total                      400                   100
Juticalpa-Catacamas
Light Vehicles             198                     52
Buses                       61                    16
Trucks                     122                    32
Total                      380                   100
2/    Light vehicles include, in addition to autos, pickup trucks, which
are an important form of passenger and freight transport.
Source: For Talanga-Jut.icalpa,1976 counts by MCOPT
For Juticalpa-Catamas,1976 counts by Brown & Root Consultants
April 1976



- 64 -                    TABLE 5.3
HONDUJRAS
SEVENTH HTl"HWAl1 PROJECI
Traffic Projections (Vehicles/day)
Year       Tal nga-Juticalpa             _      JuticalpaCatac4ma
Normal    Generated  /  Total    Normal   Generated            T Total
1976    400                      4 00      380          -             380
1980    486           -          h86       462          93            555
1981    511          108         619       485          98            583
1985    621          131         752       590         119            709
1990    763          161         924       724         146            870
1995    928          196        1124       881         178           1059
2000   1129          239        1368      1072         216           1288
2/ Traffic mix assumed at 50% trucks, 7% buses, and 431 light vehicles
for all years for normal traffic.
2/  Traffic mix assumed at 32% trucks, 16% buses, and 52% light vehicles
for all years for normal traffic.
3/  Generated traffic based on vehicle operating cost saving of Table 4.7
and elasticities of +.25 for trucks and +.50 for buses and light
vehicles.
Source: Mission Estimates
April 1976



HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams Talanga-Juticalpa
(1000 Lempiras)
C o s ts                                B e_n e f i t s         _
Operating Cost  Operating Cost  Distance  Distance          Total
Year   Construction  Additional   Saving              Saving            Saving    Saving
Costs         Maintenance  Normal             Generated         Normal   Generated   Benefits
.____________      Costs      Traffic          Traffic           Traffic   Traffic
1977       8400             _                                              - _  _
1978      16800             _                                              - _  _
1979      19600             _      l       _                 _
1980      11200             _                                              - _  _
1981         -              57           6838              634           1243        116         8774              1
1982         -              57           7179              665           1305        121         9216              >
1983         -              57           7538              698           1370        127         9679              m
1984         -              57           7915              733           1438        134       10166
1985         -              57           8311              770           1510        141       10677
1986         -              57           8727              809           1586        148       11214
1987         -              57           9076              841           1650        154       11664
1988         -              57           9439              874           1716        160       12133
1989         -              57           9816              909           1784        166       12620
1990         -              57          10209              946           1856        173       13127
1991         -              57          10617              983           1930        180       13655
1992         -              57          11042             1023           2007        187       14203
1993         -              57          11484             1064           2087        194       14774
1994         -              57          11943             1106           2171        202       15367
1995         -              57          12421             1150           2258        210       15984
1996         -              57          12917             1197           23)48       219       16626
1997         -              57          13)43)4           124)4         2)4)42       227       17293
1998         -              57          13972             129)4          25)40       237       17987
1999         -              57          14530             1346           2641        246       18709
2000  -           57         ~~~~~15112         1)400          27)47       256       19459                 .
Source: Mission estimates
August 1976



- 66 -
TABLE 5.5
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams Juticalpa-Catacamnas
(1000 Lempiras)
C O S   S                    B E N E F I T S
Year   Construction   Additional    Operating Cost    Operating Cost
Costs          Maintenance   Saving Normal        Saving Generated
Costs         Traffic             Traffic
1977        2420
1978        6050
1979        3630              _               _                    _
1980         -               21              1139                   93
1981         -               21              1195                   97
1982         -               21              1255                  102
1983         -               21              1318                  107
1984         -               21              1384                  113
1985         -               21              1453                  118
1986         -               21              1526                  124
1987         -               21              1587                  130
1988         -               21              1650                  135
1989         -               21              1716                  140
1990         -               21              1785                  146
1991         -               21              1856                  152
1992         -               21              1930                  158
1993         -               21              2008                  164
1994         -               21              2088                  171
1995         -               21              2171                  177
1996         -               21              2258                  185
1997         -               21               2349                 192
1998         -               21              2443                  200
1999         -               21              2540                  208
2000         -               21              2642                  216
Source: Mi8sion estimates
April 1976



- 67 -                     TABLE 5..6
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road and Vehicle Operating Characteristics
Talanga-Juticalpa
Existing Road       Proposed Road
Average Gradient %                 5-7                   0-3
Average Degree of Curvature       10-20                  4-19
Light Vehicle Speeds (km/hr)       32                    64
Bus Speeds (km/hr)                 32                     56
Truck Speeds (km/hr)               16                     40
Juticalpa-Catacamas
Existing Road      Proposed Road
Average Gradient %                   3-5                 0-3
Average Degree of Curvature          3-16                4-22
Light Vehicle Speeds (km/hr)        40                    64
Bus Speeds (km/hr)                  40                    56
Truck Speeds (km/hr)                 24                   40
Source: Consultants Studies and Mission Estimates
April 1976



- 68 -
TABLE 5.7
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Vehicle Operating Cost
(Lempiras per vehicle-km)
Talanga-Juticalp
Vehicle T_ype /  _Existing Road          Proposed Road    Saving
Light Vehicle             0.18                0.09          0.09
Bus                       0.39                0.17          0.22
Truck                     0.80                0.27          0.53
Juticalpa-Catacamas
VeheExisting Road   Proposed Road    Saving
Light Vehicle             0.16                0.09          0.07
Bus                       0.36                0.17          0.19
hi
Truck                     0.58                0.27          0.32
1/  Includes value of time for driver and assistant on bus  of 2.43
Lempira per hour.  For a truck: 3.64 Lempiras per hour for a
driver, assistant, and 1.8 laborers.
j   Light vehicle costs assume mix of 50% autos and 50% pickups.
3/  Bus costs assume mix of 55% small buses and 45% large.
v/  Truck mix is 55% 3.5 ton, 35% 15 ton, 10% 18 ton.
Source:  TAMS User Cost Model for Honduras with adjustment to 1976
prices
April 1976



- 69 -
TABLE 5.8
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Farm Size Distribution in the Municipios
of ralanga and Juticalpa in 1965-66
Talanga
Farm Size            Percent of          Percent of Total
(Hectares)          Total Area           Number of Farms
O - 1                34.o                  90.8
14 - 70                22.7                   7.9
70 - 350               14.4                   1.1
Over   350               29.9                   0.2
Juticalpa
Farm Size            Percent of          Percent of Total
(Hectares)           Total Area          Number of Farms
O - 14                10.3                  66.5
1  - 70               21.8                  26.3
70 - 350               19.1                   4.9
Over   350               48.8                   2.3
Source:  Agricultural/Rural Sector Study Honduras
IBRD/IDB/AID Volume III December 1975
Original Source: 1965-66 Agricultural Census
April 1976



- 70 -
TAbLE 5.9
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Current and Future Backlog of Road Maintenance
With Current Expenditure Levels
(km)      (km)         (km)        Total
Item             Paved    Gravel    Dry Weather    (km)
Current Road Network       1,232    3,278         1,022        5,532
Current Maintenance /-       862    2,295           715        3,872
Current Deficit              370       983          307        1,660
Future Additions /2          268       522          178          968
Total Future Deficit         638    1,505           485        2,628
/1 With the current level of expenditure it is estimated that only
70% of the required maintenance level is achieved.
/2 1976-1979 estimated net additions to the road network.
Source: Justificacion Economica para la Adquisicion de Equipo de
Conservacion de Carreteras, SCOPT, Febrero 1976, and
mission estimates
May 1976



- 71 -             TABLE 5.10
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Reconstruction Costs of Roads Not Maintained
Reconstructioi6              13   Useful Life &      Annual
Cost         Allowable-        with       Reconstructioni-
Maintenance Li      (Millions)       Neglect       Maintenance         Cost
TYpe of Road   Deficit (Em)         (Lemp/Km)         (yrs-)         (yrs.)      (Million Lemp.)
Paved                638              50.0              8              20              4.0
Gravel             1,505              24.0              5               20             7.2
Dry Weather          485               8.0              3              20              1.3
Total   2,628                -              -                -             12.5
/1  From Taole 4.9
/2  Assumes reconstruction cost is equal to 20% of initial construction cost.
/3 Mission estimatea of numoer of years without maintenance before reconstruction is
required.
A4 The average age of the road network is assumed at 5 years, leaving 15 years of
useful life for the period of analysis.
15 Equals the maintenance deficit times the reconstruction cost divided oy the
allowable period of neglect.
Source: Same as Table 4.9



- 72 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  To implement, not later than June 30, 1977, the enforcement
of regulations on weight and dimensions of vehicles, not
only on the project road but in the country as a whole
(para. 3.10);
(b)  To prepare, by mid 1977, a plan of action for recruiting and
retaining highway personnel and discuss with the Bank the
steps to be taken for implementing the plan (para. 3.15);
(c)  To use the Bank-financed maintenance equipment solely for
maintenance purposes (para. 3.26);
(d)  To improve, by late 1977, the equipment repair facilities of
Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, including the disposal of
the old units that are stockpiled in these workshops
(paras. 3.29 and 4.09);
(e)  To provide the necessary funds for highway maintenance (para. 4.09);
(f)  To provide, by late 1977, adequate facilities for installation of
the Bank-financed laboratory equipment (para. 4.09);
(g)  To engage consultants, under terms of reference and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for the preparation of the Highway Master
Plan (para. 4.10); for the technical assistance to MCOPT's Highway
Directorates (para. 4.12); for aid to the local construction
industry (para. 4.14); for the Guayape Valley development study
(para. 4.15); and for supervision of construction (para. 4.16);
(h)  To provide the necessary budgetary allocations on a timely basis
for the execution of project works (para. 4.22);
(i)  To establish a new unit within the Directorate General of Highways
with at least three experienced highway engineers and two adminis-
trators to assist in the implementation of the proposed project
(para. 4.24);
(j)  To make the necessary arrangements for clearing the land
prior to the start of the construction works on the
Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road (para. 4.25); and
(k)  To carry out project works according to an agreed imple-
mentation schedule (para. 4.28).



- 73 -
6.02      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that MCOPT has
established a new unit consisting of at least three additional engineers and
two administrators to carry out the implementation of the project (para. 4.24).
6.03      A condition for disbursement for the purchase of workshop and
laboratory equipment will be that the Bank should be satisfied with the
facilities to be provided by the Government for the installation of such
equipment (paras. 4.09 and 4.35).
6.04      Provided that the foregoing conditions are met, the project provides
a suitable basis for a loan of US$35.0 million equivalent, including US$28.0
million from Bank funds and US$7.0 million from Third Window funds, to the
Republic of Honduras. The loan from Bank funds will be for a term of 20 years,
including a four-and-a-half year grace period; for the Third Window funds, the
term will be 25 years, including a seven-year grace period.
November 10, 1976



- 74-               ANNEX
Page 1
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
I. General Reports and Studies in the Sector and Suo-Sector
1.   Decree No. 173 - Classification of Road Network and Regulations
for Acquisition of Right of Way - May 1959
2.  Honduras - Self Help Feeder Roads Program - USAID, November 1964
3.   Programa de Inversiones Puolicas de Desarrollo y Reconstruction
1975-1979 - CONSUPLAN, December 1974
4.  Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Obras Publicas y Transportes -
Memoria del Ano 1974, October 1975
5.   Estudio Sobre la Situacion del Transporte Terrestre International
de Carga en Honduras - SIECA, July 1975
6.  Estudio de Incrementos en el Costo de Transporte de Madera Como
Resultado del Control de los Pesos y Medidas de los Vehiculos de
Transporte por Carretera - COHDEFOR, September 1975
7.   Preliminary Feasioility of Developing Site at Puerto Cortes for
Free Zone or Other Use - TAMS-Cerna y Maier, October 1975
8.  Evaluacion de Inversiones - MCOPT, December 1975
9.   Presupuesto General de Ingresos y Egresos Para 1976 - December 1975
10.  Draft of the Agricultural Rural Sector Study - Three Volumes -
IBRD/IDB/USAID, Decemoer 1975
11.  Land Transport Law - Honduras Government, February 1976
12.   Plan Operativo del Sector Transportes - CONSUPLAN, 1976
13.  The Agro-Forestal Potential of the Olancho Region - IDB/FAO - 1975
II.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
14.  Volumes de Transito en Las Carreteras de Honduras - Brown and
Root - 1971
15.   Feasibility Study of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga-Juticalpa Road -
Howard., Humphreys, Keeble and Partners, January 1971
16.   Layout Plans of the Talanga-Juticalpa Road - Howard, Humphreys,
Keeble and Partners, 1973



- 75                ANNEX
Page 2
17.   Report on the Final Engineering of the Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa
Road - Howard, Keeble and Partners, November 1973
18.   Especificaciones para la Construccion de Carreteras y Puentes -
Direccion General de Caminos - MCOPT, 1974
19.   Diseno Geometrico de Carreteras - Especificaciones Centro
Americanas
20.   Diseno Geometrico de Caminos - Especificaciones Hondurenas -
MCOPT
21.   Feasibility Study of 330 kn of Feeder Roads to the Tegucigalpa-
Juticalpa Road - Three Volumes - Brown and Root, 1975
22.   Addendum to the Feasibility Study of 330 km of Feeder Roads -
Brown and Root, 1975
23.   Feasibility Study of the Juticalpa-Catacamas Road - Brown and
Root, 1975
24. Updating of the Feasioility Study of the Talanga-Juticalpa Road -
Sectoral Planning Office - MCOPT, 1975
25.  Economic Justification for the Purchase of Highway Maintenance
Equipment - Local Consultants/Directorate of Highway Maintenance
of the MGOPT, 1975
26.  Constructimn Magazine - The Honduran Chamoer of the Construction
Industry, January 1976
27.   Bulletin on Policies of the "Colegio de Ingenieros Civiles de
Honduras", 1976
28.  Organization Charts of the MCOPT and of the General Directorates
of Highways and Highway Maintenance - MCOPT, February 1976
29.  Updated Cost Estimates and Typical Cross Sections for the
Talanga-Juticalpa and Juticalpa-Catacamas Roads prepared by
MCOPT for the First Road and oy Brown and Root for the Second
Road, February 1976
30.  Updated Traffic Counts on the Talanga Juticalpa and Juticalpa
Catacamas Roads prepared by MCOPT and by Brown and Root
respectively, Feoruary 1976
31.  Aide Memoire prepared in Honduras on the Proposed Project - IBRD,
February 1976



- 76 -               ANNEX
Page 3
III.   Selected Working Papers, Tables, Drawings and Maps prepared by
Bank Staff or its Consultants
32.   Informe de Programacion - Programa de Asesoria - TAMS-Cerna y
Maier, 1975
33.-  Alcance General de los Servicios de Consultoria para la
Preparacion de un Plan Maestro Vial de Honduras - TAMS-Cerna
y Maier - March 1976
3a.  Paper on Highway Maintenance Management and Construction
Training - Roy Jorgensen Associates, Inc., March 1976
35.  Working Papers related to the Economic Justification to the
Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas Road and the Purchase of Maintenance
Equipment - IBRD Staff 1976
36.  Working Papers related to Cost Estimate of the Project - IBRD
Staff and Consultants - 1976
May 1976



HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS,
PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
MINISTER
VICE-MINISTER                             VICE-MINISTER FOR
FOR                                       COMMUNICATIONS
PUBIFC WORKS                              AND TRANSPORT
SENIOR                  N                AUDITOR                     LEGAL                 PLANNING            TECHNICAL
OFFICER            PERSONNEL             AUDITOR                     ADVISER               UNIT                ADVISORS
TECHNICAL
ADVISOR FOR
COMMUNICATIONS
N   E  R  A   L      D  I  R  E   C   T   O   R A   T   E   S                                  G   E   N  E   R  A  L      D   I  R  E  C  T O   R  A   T  E  S
A                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONALTE-
S                                         URBAN WORtKS          GEOGRAPHI                COMUNICATIONS           PS OFANSPOT                                CVI-
AN                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INSTITUTE I
GENERAL
FADMINISTRATION
World Bank-15878



HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL FOR HIGHWAYS
DIRECTOR GENERAL SECON                  T
|D            E        P       Al|      R        T       M         E    |1  N       T        S|
UNITS                        ~~~~~~ANDCOSRCINAMNTAIN
RESEARCH
|           ~     ~     ~~S  E    |CTIO|                                           N           S|
IDB
- USAID                                HIGHWAYERISA  EDR    SS                    C T RUSCN-
C   COORDINATION
_   STRUCTURAL                             OF                                        PURCHASES
DESIGNS                               CONSULTANTSRO
| CONSULTANTS  |k-87
AND_                                                                                WAREHOUSES|
|RESE ARCH
|LA80RAORY  | |SUL8AO                          80IG                  INVESTIGA-  |         TION     



HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL
FOR MAINTENANCE OF HIGHWAYS AND AIRPORTS
DIRECTOR GENERAL               SECRETARIAT
ASSISTANT                           RAINING
ENGINEER                            FFtCIAL
I            ~~~~D   E       P     A  I  R        T     M       E    |IN      T       S|
EQUIPMENT AND                              TECHNICAL STUDIES                 MAINTENANCE                   ADMINISTRATION
TRANSPORTATION
DISTRICT       l      llr|PANN
WORKSHOPS                  CENTRAL                      ANS                             PLANNINN
TRANSPORTATION             WORKSHOP                     SPECIFICATIONS                  PROGRAMMING
l                           | ~~~~~~~~~CONTROL             |SIGNALIZA-
ADMINISTRATION                                           AND                      _| TION AND                            ACCOUNTING
LABORATORY                     ROAD SAFETY
l         | ~~CRUSHING                    r
|   INSECTIONS                   AND MATE-                         PURCHASES
INSPECTIONS               RIALS SELECTION
| AIRPORTS                       o  BPAYMENT
|SEVEN     
|MAINTENANCED 
|DISTRICTS 
VVorld Bank-15880






IBR D-10395R1
NT  L  I Z  E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AN
2                                                                                                       8ARAAE~~~~~~~~~~~TA  HC(~~~~~~~uuAJAA.
GOLF   Of  IRNObIVGUAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
PLERTq COPIES                                                                                                                                                                                                           005
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ACOCITO
~I  _  TI ,
G   U  A                    M A            A '    RTS7T 0hSA~TF~
X ACADYA  0FNAR LEOGRESO 
A,NLACUALV.                                                                                                                                                                RAAIAS             A    ClI
MACUEL          TPST5  I5   S                                                                                                                                                                                                              I'  PETS   I0
AN                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DALCE NOMPRE
FEL ARAISO  \                   SAN JOSE    ANTONIO
ARNJT   NICOAN    ATA-
*   K1                                    -                                                                         M~~~~~~~~'O  sANT0  SAN ERANCISCOI
STA ROSA      n'                                                 A LIIPERTAOD     K FILVTIRR         OAAF 
E PORVENIP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E1s
GNATECCT                                                                                                       MACOIGHAYNETOR
AS  I               DrS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEEHDEA   EJE    Sa  pR 
MO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                     -     MI'000FlT
~~~~A                      
*N~~~~0            A~~      r A    A                AGALTECA                                                                                                                                             PNTWeRKrnHi
001RRP-WYPRJECT iL   13ON-[EQ
L  E M  P 1 R   A  IA                SAN JUAN                                                                                                                       "60P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NNNPN  -sndpA   PEaaar  P   a
ROSA                                                                                                           C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A aiaa Pe
IEPATERI   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~AENFET  HSPHWAY PANCJE-CT Ua   GV Ok7HQ
- NOPOL CA  EP'  ~                                                            --' '-. PIMENSORa road papa  Ron THonna - JILPINOIPO - C.aFFasaaW
4;    pdoLa HAYPA          L-~-
UEN                                                                                      .........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .  I  AAPdn
~~~~                                                                '       ~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                        noDOPRJCTM~                      AUG6DS40



