Document of
\E }N                             The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1937_H0
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
November 11, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$ 1.00           2 Lempiras
L 2,00    =      US$1.00
Fiscal Year
Jariuary 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
PROPOSED LOANIS TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on proposed loans
equivalent to US$35.0 million to the Republic of Honduras. A loan of US$28.0
million would be made for 20 years including 4-1/2 years grace with interest
at 8.7 percent per annum. A loan of US$7.o million would be made on Third
Window terms of 25 years including 7 years of grace,with interest at 4.7
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Honduras" (1165-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on August 23,
1976. The findings of the Report are summarized below, and a country data
sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Prospects
3.        The long-run growth rate of the Honduran economy has been modest:
real GDP per capita grew at less than 1 percent per year between 1950 and
1974. With a per capita GNP of US$350 in 1975 (World Bank estimate), Honduras
is the poorest country in Central America and the majority of the population
lives on a subsistence income. A major reason for the poor growth perfonnance
is the continued dependence of the economy on the production and export of a
few agricultural commodities, especially bananas, and thus on fluctuating
world market and weather conditions. This was illustrated dramatically when
substantial hurricane damage to the banana plantations in September 1974
reduced banana export volumes in 1975 to about half the level of previous
years. At the same time the recession-in the developed world affected beef
and lumber exports, and rising oil prices led to a severe deterioration in
Honduras' terms of trade. In early 1975, an emergency basic grains program
designed to offset the consequences of the hurricane destruction failed,
largely because of a drought. The-result was a real GDP stagnant in 1974
and down 0.5 percent in 1975.
4.        There are many reasons for the continued dominance of bananas in the
Honduran economy. Known mineral deposits are not extensive. Land suitable
for agriculture is available and the country has sizeable forest resources,
but because of a serious lack of basic infrastructure, and of deficient devel-
opment policies in the past, these resources have remained underutilized.
Some progress has been made during the last two decades, especially in the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witho- I World Bank authorinzation.



area of transport development, but the mountainous topography of the country
has made the expansion of the road network slow and costly. This limits the
size of the domestic market and hampers industrial development. Honduras'
participation in the Central American Common Market (CACM) in the early 1960's
was an attempt to gain access to a larger market for its industry, but the
process was halted by the conflict with El Salvador in 1969. However, even
while the expanded protected market of the CACM lasted, Honduras did not
receive the expected benefits, as it was unable to compete with its neighbors
in attracting new investments or developing new industries. A further obstacle
to economic development in Honduras is the severe scarcity of entrepreneurial
talent and the low productivity of the labor force. Over 50 percent of the
adult population is illiterate and nutrition and health standards are very
deficient.
5.        The agricultural sector has accounted for about one-third of GDP
in the 1970's. While there is considerable potential for improving utiliza-
tion of resources and the productivity of the agricultural sector, uneven land
distribution and extensive and inefficient livestock operations on the larger
holdings have retarded increases in productivity and resulted in considerable
peasant unrest. The Government recognizes that a correction of this situation
is vital for the future stable development of the country and, although
hampered by a shortage of personnel, it is making serious efforts to address
the problem. It began substantial land redistribution in i973 under Decree
Law 8. This was followed by Decree Law 170 in 1975, which established the
operating regulations for the comprehensive agrarian reform program necessary
for long run improvements in agricultural productivity. A great deal has
already been accomplished. Since 1973, the Government has distributed land to
over 30,000 families. The program calls for land distribution to an additional
70,000 families, and peasant organization demands for a rapid as well as an
effective agrarian reform process can be expected to continue. The agrarian
reform had a dampening effect on private investment, especially in the early
stages before the rules for land redistribution were defined, but with the
issuance of the law and regulations in 1975 private investment plans are going
forward. The private sector is financing a major expansion of sugar produc-
tion, with three new sugar mills scheduled to come on stream in 1977 and 1978.
6.        The state forest corporation (COHDEFOR) has made some progress
towards the further development of the country's substantial forest resources.
COHDEFOR is now preparing a project in the Olancho, the area with the coun-
try's largest forest reserve, for timber milling and industrialization and
for a pulp and paper plant. Decisions are now being taken regarding the im-
plementation schedule and the financing package for the first stage of the
project (timber milling). In addition, several projects are being prepared
for processing installations for rough-sawn lumber; it is expected that these
will stimulate the development of intermediate and end-product industries such
as furniture and molding. Forest management work is being undertaken through
eight district offices and negotiations are underway with Canada for assis-
tance with this and other forestry activities.
Balance of Payments
7.        The balance of payments situation deteriorated sharply during 1974
and 1975, mainly as a result of the combined effects of weakening terms of



- 3 -
trade, the world recession, the September 1974 hurricane, and the drought
in 1975. Inflows from foreign grants, the IMF Oil Facility, the Venezuelan
Investment Fund, along with borrowings from bilateral and international
lending agencies financed the bulk of the deficit during these years. Tnere
were also sizeable increases in private capital inflows, especially short-term
capital, but these were largely offset by factor payments abroad. Balance of
payments management is expected to continue to be difficult during the next
several years. Net international reserves were equivalent to only six weeks'
imports in December 1975. The recent sharp increases in coffee prices have
led to a temporary improvement in the balance of payments situation, but,
given present expectations, sizeable resource gaps in the balance of payments
are projected for the period 1976-81 owing to large import requirements and
only moderate export growth. During 1976-81, the growth of banana exports
will largely reflect recovery from the 1974 hurricane, and increases in the
volume of the other major exports, coffee, beef, and wood, are expected to be
modest. However, anticipated increases in the prices of wood and beef, added
to increased coffee prices, would lead to a moderate improvement in Honduras'
terms of trade beginning this year. Other exports are also expected to grow,
and sugar may become a significant export item by 1980 if the planned produc-
tion increases are realized on schedule. The projected recovery of banana
exports and the anticipated increase in sugar, beef, and wood exports will
depend, however, on improvements in managerial capacities and efficiency in
the public sector as well as on orderly progress in the agrarian reform
program.
Public Investment and External Debt
8.        The Government plans to improve the economic growth outlook over
the medium term through an ambitious public investment program, which would
alleviate major bottlenecks to long-term development.    Large investments are
planned in communications, roads and power, and in the area of export produc-
tion:  lumber mills, a pulp and paper plant, a tourism project, and agricul-
tural projects and a sugar mill. Because consumer goods account for only a
small share of imports and cannot be reduced without hardship, imports will be
growing fairly rapidly as the public investment program is realized. The
financing of the projected resource gaps will require substantial capital
inflows and the bulk of the foreign capital requirements will have to be met
through public borrowing. In the past, Honduras has managed to keep its
external debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all
on concessional terms. It is important that the country continue to borrow on
'reasonably soft terms lest the planned public investment program result in an
excessive debt service burden in the future. Even if Honduras is successful
in obtaining most of the financing it needs for its investment program on
terms similar to those offered by the international lending agencies, the debt
service ratio is still likely to rise from about 5 percent in 1975 to about 15
percent by the early 1980's. Because Honduras will continue to depend on
exports of a few commodities with volatile price prospects, and because
natural disasters have sharply reduced the volume of exports every few years,
prudent debt management will require maintenance of rather a lower debt
service ratio than might be considered safe for more diversified economies.



-4-
Public Finance
9.        During the last three years the public finance situation has
remained sound because of improvements in tax collection, and because,
until very recently, the growth of capital and current expenditures has been
limited. Nonetheless, greater demands on the public sector for reconstruction
(after the 1974 hurricane) and development expenditures have resulted in an
increase of the overall public deficit from 1.5 percent of GDP in 1973 to
nearly 5 percent in 1975. The Government has taken steps to improve the fis-
cal outlook and adopted new tax measures in December 1975 expected to raise
the tax ratio from 12 percent of GDP in 1975 to about 13.5 percent this year.
Despite the greater tax effort, however, public'savings cannot be expected to
finance all of the local costs of the public investment program without unduly
restricting current expenditures, nor can the shortfall be financed out of
domestic borrowing without generating unacceptable levels of inflation.
Therefore, some local cost financing on the part of official lending institu-
tions will be required to implement the stepped-up public investment program.
External Assistance
10.       The Bank is Honduras' largest creditor, holding 25.3 percent of the
US$445.5 million external public debt outstanding--including undisbursed--
repayable in foreign currency, as of December 31, 1975.    IDA holds an addi-
tional 8.0 percent of the total. Although IDB has made loans totalling the
equivalent of US$116.4 million, most of this amount is repayable in local
currency, so that IDB's share of the public debt repayable in foreign currency
is only 7.5 percent. CABEI accounts for 21.6 percent of the total, the U.S.
Government for 20.3 percent, Venezuela 7.2 percent and privately held debt for
10.1 percent.
11.       In terms of the secioral thrust of the lending by the principal
external agencies, apart from the Bank, AID has concentrated on agriculture,
education and health, the IDB on transport, power, agriculture and industry,
and CABEI on infrastructure and industry; and these patterns are expected
to continue.
Eligibility for Third Window Lending
12.       Honduras is considered eligible for Third Window financing on the
basis of the following considerations:
(a) Poverty: Its per capita income was US$350 in 1975 and US$300
in 1972. 1/
(b) Performance: Honduras has made impressive accomplishments in
the last three year-s in promoting social and economic develop-
ment. It has undertaken a major agrarian reform program; and
has arranged for the financing and begun the last stage of
preparation of a major project for the exploitation of its
1/   World Bank Atlas.



- 5 -
substantial forest resources. Public investment has been
substantially increased, from an average level of 4.5 percent
of GDP in the 1971-73 period to 8.1 percent in 1975, and should
remain at a hi'gh level for the next several years in view of
the number of projects now in preparation.
(c) Creditworthiness: Honduras' external debt and debt service have
been relatively low in the past but can be expected to increase
quite rapidly by the early 1980's in line with the increase in
public investment necessary to carry out its development plans.
At the same'time the country's exports are of a quite volatile
nature, with bananas and coffee accounting for about one half of
total merchandise exports. In these circumstances, Honduras'
creditworthiness for conventional and commercial type loans is
limited, and external assistance on concessional terms is highly
desirable.
(d) Alternative Sources of Finance: The projected increase in public
investment in Honduras will require substantial borrowing from
the major multilateral and bilateral lending agencies (including
the Venezuelan Investment Fund); the increase required from agen-
cies other than the Bank, before taking into account the financing
requirements of the Seventh Highway Project, is already about the
maximum that could be expected given the resource constraints of
most of these agencies.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
13.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received fifteen Bank loans totalling US$130.2 million and eight
IDA credits totalling US$47.6 million, both net of cancellations. The pro-
posed loans would raise the total of Bank Group assistance from US$177.8
million to US$212.8 million.
14.       Execution of projects financed by the Bank Group has, on the whole,
been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments, and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
15.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated on trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities-hampered the development of
the country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, how-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
then, there has been a Second Livestock project; a First Education project,
which included as major components primary teacher training schools, support
for the national agricultural secondary school and vocational training centers;
and a First Agricultural Credit project (approved in May of this year) to
finance livestock and crop development with emphasis on assisting agrarian
reform settlements through investment credits and a substantial technical
assistance program.



- 6 -
16.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities of
the Governmeut's investment program by giving increased emphasis to investment
in the productive sectors and in education, while continuing to lend for
physical infrastructure, where there are still deficiencies to be overcome.
In addition to the Agricultural Credit project approved last May, the Bank
Group contemplates undertaking other rural developoment projects to help
support agrarian reform and productivity objectives.' Batk Group support is
also being considered for COHDEFOR's pulp and paper project. Honduras also
has potentially excellent tourism sites which are now being studied to deter-
mine whether a project is feasible. As part of its agrarian reform program,
the Government has proposed the creation of rural development centers which
would provide comprehensive educational services to rural communities. Bank
assistance in this effort will be considered as a possible major component of
a second education loan.
17.       In transport, after the proposed project, we would place emphasis
on assistance in the construction of a network of feeder and access roads
to support the Government's agricultural program. In addition we hope to
continue our support for port expansion programs which will facilitate the
growth of Honduran exports, and a project for the construction of Puerto
Castilla on the Atlantic Coast to serve the forest industries project has
recently been appraised. The Bank made a US$35.0 million loan for a Sixth
Power Project in 1975 and contemplates continuing its assistance to the power
sector in the future.
18.       IFC's activities in Honduras have so far included a 1964 loan and
a share subscription, of US$295,000 and US$66,750 respectively, in a tannery,
Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. (ECCASA); and a US$75,000 share
subscription in a pilot promotional company, Compania Pino Celulosa de Centro
America (COPINO) in 1969. COPINO was established to develop an industrial
project based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve, but a series of
obstacles to project development arose and efforts to go forward with it were
virtually halted in 1971. The Government's intentions regarding a role for
COPINO in the COHDEFOR forest industries project remain to be determined.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
19.       The Honduran transport system is dominated by roads and road trans-
port. Because distances are short and the terrain rugged, railways are non-
competitive, except in the northern coastal strip where specialized banana
railways operate. Road transport carries 86 percent of the freight tonnage
and 96 percent of the passenger traffic in the country. The primary road
network connects the two principal cities, San Pedro Sula in the north and
the capital, Tegucigalpa, in the south, and is designed to service the most
important agricultural areas, the Sula and Choluteca Valleys and the Atlantic
coastal strip.



20.       Aside from infrastructure to serve the banana industry, major devel-
opment of the transport sector began only in the mid-fifties with construction
of the Inter-American highway in the southern part of the country; a modern
all-weather road betwen Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula was not completed until
1970. Modernization of the principal port, Puerto Cortes on the Atlantic, did
not begin until the creation of a National Port Authority in 1965, and, with
Bank assistance, a deepwater Pacific Coast facility is only now being con-
structed at San Lorenzo. Investment in transport infrastructure increased
significantly in the 1970's, and highway projects are now planned, or under
construction, to complete most of the country's primary highway network. When
complete in the early 1980's, these projects will provide modern all-weather
access to the increasingly important agricultural and timber areas of eastern
Honduras, including the rich Aguan Valley in the north, the Guayape Valley
and the Olancho forest reserve in central Honduras, and the Danli area in the
south. With the improvement and expansion of the feeder and access road
system, to which the Government will be giving increasing emphasis over the
next five years, the country will, for the first time, have an internal
transport network adequate to serve its most important productive areas.
Highways,
21.       Because of the topography of Honduras, road construction, in general,
has been difficult and expensive; nevertheless, the road network grew from
about 3,200 km (110 km paved) in 1960 to about 6,100 km (1,240 km paved) in
1975. In addition to the principal roads mentioned in the preceding para-
graph, the primary system includes a road southwest from San Pedro Sula
to the El Salvador border, and a road along the north coast to La Ceiba.
The country's secondary and tertiary road system is not yet well developed.
22.       The road transport industry, operating in an environment of virtually
no regulation, expanded rapidly in the decade from 1964 to 1974. During
that period, the vehicle fleet grew from 16,000 to 43,900, an increase of 174
percent. The most notable growth occurred in the number of trucks, which
increased by 230 percent. The road transport industry is generally adequate
in the sense that it does not constitute a serious bottleneck to the develop-
ment of other sectors of the economy. However, ,tDhe poor organization of the
local trucking market and the large discrepancy in managerial and financial
resources between small domestic operators and the large international oper-
ators has led to a partitioning of the industry in which Honduran truckers
have not had access to lucrative international traffic. This situation
together with the serious problem of overloading of trucks, led to enactment
of a revised Land Transport Law (February 1976) which permits the detailed
regulation of road passenger and freight traffic. At present, the Government
is restricting its regulatory activity to passenger transport and a gradual
program ofPcontrol of truck loading, but it is now cons1idering what is feasible
and desirable in other areas; so far it has refrained from imposing regulations
that might harm what to date has been a reasonably adequate truck and bus
industry.
23.       The Ministry of Communications, Public Works and Transport (MCOPT)
is in charge of planning, designing, constructing, and maintaining all roads



- 8 -
in the countzy, except for a few being built by the Honduran Forestry Devel-
opment Corporation (Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal, COHDEFOR)
for forestry development. MCOPT's highway activities are carried out
through two Directorates: the Directorate for Highways (DGH), which plans,
designs, and supervises construction of roads; and the Directorate for Highway
Maintenance (DGHM), which maintains the road network. All major construction
works are implemented by contracts awarded after competitive bidding.    Some
minor improvement works and construction of a few feeder roads, totaling
an average yearly investment- of about US$1.5 million equivalent, are pe'rformed
by force account. A research program is currently being carried out with Bank
assistance to determine the appropriate labor capital mix for constructing
such roads. Government-financed works are normally supervised directly
by DGH staff, while externally financed construction works are supervised
by consultants. Despite considerable technical assistance over the years,
DGH is still heavily dependent upon consultants for implementation of major
projects, and still requires additional technical assistance, particularly
to improve the quality of its professional staff. High staff turnover which
results from low civil srvce salary levels has been the major factor in
limiting the effectiveness of past training programs. Recently, civil service
salaries have improved somewhat and there has been greater staff stability.
Additional measures will be taken to provide the MCOPT with better qualified,
experienced staff.
24.       Highway maintenance continues to be the most serious problem in
the transport sector, accentuated by the overloading of trucks, particularly
in the timber industry. DGHM carries out routine maintenance by force account
through its seven maintenance districts. Each district has its own technical
staff, equipment and repair facilities, and two main workshops are located
in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, but the facilities in these, as well as in
the other district workshops, are inadequate. MCOPT has received assistance
from several external sources for improving and strengthening its maintenance
operations and for the purchase of maintenance equipment. In spite of such
assistance, routine maintenance is deficient, and more equipment is needed to
replace wornout units, many of which are 15 years old or older. The inade-
quacy of road maintenance has been due to tinsufficient annual budgetary allo-
cations, the use of maintenance equipment for works other than maintenance and
lack of trained staff. Over the past two years, however, there have been sub-
stantial increase in expenditures for maintenance and equipment renewal. Also,
the installation of 12 weighing stations has recently been completed and regula-
tions for controlling truck weight and dimensions have been enacted. Thus,
the Government will shortly be in a position to enforce load limits which
should, over time, reduce deterioration of the country's major highways.
25.       Although the development of a local construction industry was
encouraged by the impetus provided by the road construction prqgram of the
1970's, the industry still faces a number of problems, caused mainly by the
deficiency of technical and managerial skills, the uneven level of highway
works; improvements in these and other related areas are therefore needed.
Honduras has no restrictions on foreign contractors, who normally submit
bids and obtain contracts for major construction works.



- 9 -
26.       During the 1970-1975 period, about 70% of highway investments were
externally financed. All local funds are provided through the normal budget-
ary process, and there is no road fund or earmarking of user charges. Road
users are currently paying taxes and user charges at about L 18 million
annually, of which fuel taxes account for more than L 12 million. With
annual road maintenance expenditures of approximately L 12 million, this is
considered generally adequate. However, with increased maintenance expendi-
tures expected in the future appropriate adjustments will be required. The
precise nature and level of these charges will be one of the issues to be
considered in a highway master plan to be prepared under the Project.
Transport Subsectors other than Highways
27.       The railway system is comprised of three narrow-gauge lines, all
located in the north and designed originally to serve the banana plantations
in the Sula Valley, the northern coastal strips, and the upper Aguan Valley.
The Government-owned railway, Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras (FNH), with a
total length of 114 km of main line, runs from the Atlantic port of Puerto
Cortes to San Pedro Sula and into the upper Sula Valley; it hauls sawn timber
and banana exports and agricultural imports, mainly rice. The Tela Railway,
recently acquired by the Government, operates over 179 km of main line, serv-
ing the banana plantation areas of the eastern side of the Sula Valley and
part of the coastal strip. The Standard Fruit Company Railroad still operates
over 157 km of main line and serves the banana plantations of the north
coastal strip as well as the upper Aguan Valley. Its gauge is different from
that of the other two, thus precluding interconnection. Consideration is
now being given by the Government to reconstruction of an abandoned Aguan
Valley rail line to haul bananas produced by the Isleta agrarian reform
settlement and other producers to the proposed port at Puerto Castilla.
28.       The port system includes Puerto Cortes, Tela, La Ceiba and Puerto
Castilla on the Atlantic coast and a shallow draft port, San Lorenzo, on
the Pacific; the latter is currently served by lighterage but is being
developed into a deepwater port under the Bank-financed Second Port Project
(Loan 767-HO). All ports are operated by the Empresa Nacional Portuaria
(ENP), *an autonomous Government organization which was highly successful
in developing the port of Puerto Cortes and which was subsequently given
control of all ports in the country. Puerto Cortes remains the principal port
and accounts for about two-thirds of all dry cargo movements of the country.
It has adequate capacity and a good operating record. Puerto Castilla is
the least developed and as yet carries no significant traffic. It is, how-
ever, the natural outlet for the Aguan Valley and is a crucial infrastructure
element for the Valley development plan. The Bank has recently appraised a
project to improve facilities at Puerto Castilla to serve prospective exports
of agricultural products, timber, and, eventually, paper from a proposed paper
mill in the lower Aguan Valley at Corocito.
29.       Honduras has two major airlines; between them they provide adequate
domestic and international service. The Villeda Morales airport at San Pedro
Sula has a good runway of 2,800 m; the Toncontin Airport at Tegucigalpa is



- 10 -
less satisfLctory, with only 1,980 meters of runway, and is barely adequate
for modern jets. However, traffic levels are so low that a major expansion of
the Toncontin Airport will not be economically feasible for many years to
come. With the completion of the road between San Pedro Sula and the El
Salvador border and that between Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, private
automobiles and a good inter-city bus and truck service have captured a large
portion of the earlier air traffic, and domestic air traffic generally has
declined steadily since the peak year of 1970.
Transport Planning and Coordination
30.       Responsibility for highway planning lies with MCOPT.    The main
bases of the highway investment plan are a long-term highway master plan,
which was prepared almost ten years ago, and a long list of proposed projects
which reflects a variety of local interests as well as national development
priorities. Some of these projects have well prepared engineering and
economic feasibility studies associated with them; some others are integral
parts of larger agricultural and forestry development plans and have -received
attention only in terms of preliminary engineering analyses and cost esti-
mates. Still others are merely lines on a map. The main deficiency of the
present "plan" is that it is not feasible in terms of finances or implemen-
tation capacity. Perhaps the most critical need is to place a realistic
cost estimate on each project in the current plan and to phase these projects
five years into the future subject to a realistic forecast of fund availabi-
lities.  The immediate result of such an effort would be the realization that
very difficult decisions are required concerning priorities. Such an exercise
is within the capacity of the MCOPT staff and would allow them to focus their
limited planning resources on a core of projects instead of dispersing them
over a large number, many of which are of low priority. The economic analysis
of projects is reasonably well understood within MCOPT, and, with some help,
the road investment program could be put on a sound economic basis. The data
and analytical requirements of such an exercise are modest, and past Bank
assistance has been helpful in improving the data base and the techniques of
project analysis. The benefits of such assistance are potentially large, and
the effort should be continued, bearing in mind the severe personnel con-
straint in MCOPT and the consequent need to keep the effort modest and
feasible.
31.       Port planning is the responsibility of ENP (see paragraph 28).     Its
management has been good and is not subject to frequent change, thus allowing
the development of a rolling five-year plan that includes economic, engineer-
ing, and financial analyses, most of which are done by the port staff itself.
The inclusion of a cash flow analysis in the five-year plan avoids the most
serious deficiency of the highway plan and effectively integrates the annual
budget exercise for the ports into a longer term plan.
32.       Both railway and airport planning are of minor importance due to
stagnant or declining traffic, and major ir,n-sstments in these modes are not
anticipated. The possibility of a short, specialized banana railway to serve
the Aguan valley and the possible improvement of the airport in Tegucigalpa
(largely because of safety considerations) would require specialized planning
expertise, but this can be obtained through consultants.



- 11 -
33.       The formal transport coordination mechanism involves both MCOPT
and the Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica (CONSUPLAN), attached to
the President of the Republic, which works with the Ministry of Finance in
harmonizing the transport investment proposals of the various modes. For
this purpose, CONSUPLAN prepares both five-year national investment plans
and an annual operational plan for the public sector. However, because of
CONSUPLAN's shortage of staff and the relative independence of the Ministries,
the basic coordination effort now takes place between MCOPT and the Ministry
of Finance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A report entitled "Staff Project Report - Honduras Seventh Highway
Project" (No. 1253-HO, dated November 11,1976) is being distributed separately.
The main features of the loans and project are summarized in Annex III. The
project was appraised in February-March 1976. Negotiations were held in
Washington from October 20-22, 1976. The principal representative for the
Government was the Minister of Public Works.
Project Objectives
35.       The main objectives of the project are:
(a)  To provide an economic and safe road connection between the
northeastern part of the country, the consumption centers and
the export outlets;
(b)  To determine the complementary investments needed for the
development of the Guayape Valley;
(c)  To assist in the preparation of an updated highway investment
program to serve as a basis for annual budget decisions;
(d)  To assist in the improvement of highway maintenance opera-
tions;
(e)  To achieve institutional improvements in the Highway Department;
and
(f)  To improve the management and operational capacity of the
local construction industry.
Project Description
36.       To support the above-mentioned objectives, the proposed project
contains the following basic elements:
(a) Reconstruction, including supervision, of the Talanga-
Juticalpa-Catacamas road;



- 12 -
(b) A study for an integrated development program for the
Guayape Valley;
(c) Preparation of a Highway Mlaster Plan;
(d) Purchase of maintenance equipment, including spare parts,
workshop, and laboratory equipment;
(e) Technical assistance for training the staff of the
Directorates of Highways and of Highway Maintenance,
including fellowships; and
(f) Technical assistance to the local construction industry.
37.       The Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road is part of the main link be-
tween Tegucigalpa and the northeastern part of the country, usually referred
to as the "Olancho Region". The present gravel road serves as an outlet for
forest exploitation in the mountainous area to the north and connects the
third largest valley of the country (the Guayape) to the main population
centers. It was constructed almost 20 years ago and, because projected
traffic volumes at that time were low, it was constructed to minimal stand-
ards with steep grades and sharp curves in order to keep the investment costs
reasonable for what was essentially a penetration road. Current traffic
volumes (about 400 vehicles per day (vpd), 50 percent being heavy trucks on
the most trafficked section) make it impossible to maintain the gravel surface
to appropriate standards, and vehicle operating costs are high. Reduced
grades and a paved surface would greatly reduce vehicle operating costs and
stimulate production in the area of influence of the road. Reconstruction
of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga section is currently nearing completion, partly
financed by Loan 896-HO. Reconstruction of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas
section to extend the Tegucigalpa-Talanga works to Olancho would be the major
comrponent (85 percent of total cost, including contingencies) of the project.
38.       The Talanga-Juticalpa section of the proposed project crosses
rugged terrain, while the topography along the Juticalpa-Catacamas section is
generally flat. The latter section passes through the Guayape Valley, the
area with the most potential for increased agricultural production in the zone
of influence of the proposed road works. A joint IBRD/IDB/USAID Agricultural
and Rural Sector Study indicates that to fully achieve this potential, however,
a development program must be un-dertaken which should include irrigation and
feeder road infrastructure, agricultural credit, extension, and marketing
facilities, and a progressive land reform and settlement policy. Although
some information is available regarding the valley, there is a need to update
and supplement it in order to develop a project for the area. The Government
has advised the Bank that it wishes to give priority to preparing and under-
taking a rural development project for the rCiayape Valley.   An IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program mission which visited Honduras in September 1976 has
concluded that there is potential for a rural development project to benefit
small fariners and agrarian reform settlements. The IBRD/FAO Cooperative
Program will assist the Government in preparing terms of ref3rence, acceptable
to the Bank, for project preparation studies to be financed under the nropused
loan.



- 13 -
39.       Unless the scarce planning, financial, and implementation resources
of the country are focused on a feasible, time-staged road investment plan,
the annual budget exercise will continue to be unrelated to longer term
consideraticns. The collection of basic data for a Highway Master Plan is
being carried out under the ongoing Sixth Highway Project (Loan 896-HO). The
present project provides for preparation of a Highway Master Plan based on
these data, and the focus under the project would be on a realistic effort
within the personnel constraint of MCOPT so that the planning process can be
continued with M1COPT staff alone at the end of the period of technical assis-
tance. It is proposed that the consultants who have prepared the preliminary
work for the highway master plan be retained to assist in the actual prepara-
tion of the plan. To achieve this continuity, a small amount of retroactive
financing would be required.
40.       A number of organizations have attempted to support the development
of road maintenance in Honduras, and some progress has been made, particularly,
in changing the structural organization of the DGHM so that it is generally
appropriate. Much remains to be done, however, and the proposed project
includes financing for urgently needed maintenance equipment as well as
further technical assistance. The technical assistance would take the form
of the development of a pilot maintenance district with the help of consul-
tants. Personnel from the other maintenance districts would then have access
to training experience within an actual functioning operation in Honduras.
The consultants would, in addition, assist MCOPT in specifying the equipment
to be purchased under the proposed project. It has been agreed that the
two maintenance equipment repair shops in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro will be
improved in a manner satisfactory to the Bank prior to the disbursement of
funds for equipping them. (Subsection 4.03(iii) of the Standard Loan Agree-
ment.) The level of expenditures for highway maintenance and equipment
renewal during the 1977-1980 period has also been agreed to. (Subsection
4.03(a) (iv) of the Standard Loan Agreement.) Further, in order to reduce
road damage caused by overloaded vehicles, it has been agreed that weight and
dimension regulations for all vehicles, which are satisfactory, will be en-
forced beginning not later than June 30, 1977. (Section 4.03(b) of the Loan
Agreement.)
41.       The local road construction industry faces a number of problems
generated in part by the industry itself and in part by the Government's
treatment of it. These problems (mainly a deficiency in the firms' technical
and managerial expertise and a lack of regulations for dealing with the
industry by government agencies) have been identified by the Bank, and the
project includes a technical assistance component to finance a study to make
recommendations designed to remedy the present shortcomings of the industry.
It has been agreed that the Government will enter into a cooperation agreement,
acceptable to the Bank, with the Camara Hondurena de Construccion, the local
construction industry association, to provide for their participation in these
studies. (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement.)
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$51.2 million
equivalent, as detailed below:



- 14 -
Foreign
US$ Million        Exchange
Local  Foreign   Total   Cost  %
(a) Road Reconstruction, including right-of-way       10.1    21.0    31.1      68
(b) Supervision of Construction                        1.2     1.3     2.5      50
(c) Study of an Integrated Development Program
for the Guayape Valley (33 man months)            0.1      0.5     0.6      80
(d) Preparation of a Highway Master Plan
(56 man months)                                   0.1      0.3     0.4      80
(e) Procurement of:
- Maintenance, Workshop and
Laboratory Equipment                        0.3      2.2     2.5      90
- Spare Parts                                      -     0.3     0.3      100
(f) Technical Assistance to MCOPT (65 man months)     0.1      0.3     0.4      80
(g) Technical Assistance to the Local
Construction Industry (20 man months)                -     0.1      0.1     80 /1
Total Base Costs                           11.9    26.0     37.9     68
(h) Contingencies:
Physical (about 10% of Item a)                  1.0     2.1      3.1
Price Adjustments (about 27% of base costs):
- For Civil Works                             3.0     6.3      9.3
- For Equipment Purchases                       -     0.3      0.3
- For Consulting Services                     0.3     0.3      0.6
TOTAL                                       16.2    35.0     51.2     68
/1   Local cost component of about $20,000 not shown because of rounding.
The cost estimate is based on the assumption that reconstruction works will be
carried out by foreign contractors with some local participation; that equip-
ment will be procured abroad; that the Highway Master Plan, technical assis-
tance and study of the valley will be carried out by foreign consultants
with some local participation; anQ that supervision of construction will be
carried out by local consultants with some foreign participation. Physical
contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent of the construction costs, and
price adjustment contingencies have been estimated at 12 percent p.a. for
1977-1979 and 10 percent for 1980/81 for the reconstruction works, 8 percent
p.a. for the equipment, and 6 percent p.a. for the consulting services.
The unit costs for road construction vary between US$134,000 and US$223,700
per km (excluding contingencies), depending on terrain conditions. Consultant
services are estimated at an average of US$5,000 per man-month.



- 15 -
43.       The foreign exchange component of the project, estimated at US$35.0
million (about 68% of project costs) would be financed by the proposed loans,
with disbursements scheduled to take place from March 1977 through December
1981. All local costs, estimated at US$16.2 million equivalent, would be met
from Government budgetary allocations.
Project Implementation
44.       Project implementation will be the responsibility of MCOPT, except
for the Guayape Valley study which will be the responsibility of the Ministry
of Natural Resources. Implementation will commence in 1976 and is scheduled
for completion by mid-1981. Civil works are expected to be implemented over a
period of about four and a half years, beginning in early 1977 and ending in
mid-1981. Acquisitioni of right-of-way would be handled by MCOPT before con-
struction contracts are let; existing legislation is adequate for the acquisi-
tion.
45.       The preparation of a Highway Master Plan, the technical assistance to
MICOPT and to the local road construction industry, and the study of an integrated
development program of the Guayape Valley are scheduled to commence in mid-1977,
after the selection of suitable consultants, and to be completed by mid-1979.
Agreement has been reached on a detailed implementation schedule for the project.
In order to strengthen the MCOPT staff, it has been agreed that, as a condition
of effectiveness, the MCOPT would establish a project unit consisting of three
engineers and two administrators, acceptable to the Bank, who would be respon-
sible for carrying out this project. (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement.)
Also the MCOPT will prepare, by June 30, 1977, a plan, acceptable to the Bank,
for providing incentives designed to assist in recruiting and retaining
qualified personnel. (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement). Included in this
plan will be provisions for fellowships to be granted to MCOPT personnel who
wiLl be attached to highway authorities abroad or to specialized consultants;
in either case attachments will be for short periods in order tco avoid disrup-
ting the operations of the Highway Directorates.
Procurement
46.       The civil works will be carried out by contracts awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement"; prospective bidders will be prequalified. MCOPT proposes
that, for bidding purposes, the works be divided into four lots and bids be
invited on a "package" basis, whereby the contractors may bid separately for
each of the four lots or for any combinations thereof; contracts will be
awarded on the basis of the lower of (a) the lowest evaluated bid for the four
lots and (b) the lowest combination of evaluated bids for each lot. The esti-
mated cost of each lot varies between US$5.5 and US$9.5 million, and it is
likely that the contracts will be won by foreign firms in joint venture with
local firms or subcontracting part of the works to local firms.



- 16 -
47.       Read maintenance and workshop equipment will be procured through
internationial competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement".   In bid evaluation, consideration will be given to the need
for standardization of equipment, which is especially important in a country
such as Honduras, with a modest economy, limited facilities for repairs and a
scarcity of qualified mechanics and operators. Items (e.g. tools, workshop
equipment) that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$30,000, and would
not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of US$300,000 will be advertised
locally and procured in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank. Local procedures will also be applied for the purchase of
urgently needed spare parts, and laboratory equipment which only a few special-
ized firms supply, up to an aggregate of US$300,000.
48.       The consulting services will be carried out by qualified consul-
tants acceptable to the Bank and engaged by the Government under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursments
49.       Disbursements will be made for 68 percent of construction costs
representing the estimated foreign exchange costs of construction,and for the
actual foreign exchange costs of equipment; for consulting services, the dis-
bursement percentages will reflect the foreign exchange costs of the different
types of services required (para. 42). Any funds remaining in the loan account
after project completion would be used for the purchase of additional mainte-
nance equipment. Retroactive financing of about $40,000 is contemplated for
payment of consulting services (para. 39).
Economic Evaluation
50.       The economic evaluation considers, in quantitative terms, the pro-
posed investments in (a) civil works and (b) maintenance equipment. The other
components are dealt with in qualitative terms.
Civil Wiorks
51.       For the economic evaluation of the investment in the proposed civil
works, the benefits have been assumed to be savings in vehicle operating costs
from (a) improved surface condition and (b) length reduction of the road sec-
tions. Benefits accruing to normal and generated traffic have been estimated
as separate benefit streams and include time savings for only professional
drivers and helpers on buses and trucks (these savings account for no more than
3 percent of the total benefits).
52.        Traffic projections lfor normal traffic were based on recent traffic
counts, past trends, and estimates of the future of the lumber industry
in the area. The most recent traffic counts (1976) indicate that traffic on
the Talanga-Juticalpa section averages 400 vnd, of which 50 percent are heavy
trucks. For the Juticalpa-C;'A-acainas section, the figures are 380 vpd, with 32
percent heavy trucks.   For tl:e past ten years, traffic on thesct t'.;X sections
has been growing  i. a_,ut 5 percent per ye- -, and the evaluation assumes t!F.t
traffic will contii-e to grow at this rate until 1986, when the nios. accessible



- 17 -
timber areas will have largely been exhausted. There is little information
on the sustainable yield of timber from the area, and it may well be that
timber traffic after 1986 will remain constant or even decline. It is
expected, however, that the growth of normal traffic will, on a conservative
basis, proceed at 4 percent after 1986, even without very substantial increases
in the rate of growth for agricultural traffic from the Guayape Valley. How-
ever, if integrated development of the Guayape Valley materializes, it should
raise the economic return on the project.
53.       Generated traffic has been estimated on the basis of reasonable
estimates of demand elasticities, and unit benefits for generated traffic have
been assumed at half those for normal traffic. Reconstruction of the road is
expected to yield a 28 percent increase in bus traffic and a 17 percent
increase in truck traffic in the year after its completion, with subsequent
growth rates the same as those for normal traffic.
54.       The economic evaluation shows that the reconstruction of the road
will be well justified and appropriately timed. Based on an economic life
of 20 years, a construction period of four years for the first section and
three years for the second section, the economic return for the road recon-
struction element of the project has been estimated at 15 percent, with a
first year return of 13 percent. Separate analysis of the Talanga-Juticalpa
section indicates an economic return of 16 percent, with a first: year return
of 14 percent. For the Juticalpa-Catacamas section, the economic return is
estimated at 11 percent, with a first year return of 9 percent. The greatest
element of risk for this project is the traffic projection. The conservative
estimate of growth after 1986, based on the declining importance of lumber
traffic and an assumed slow development of the Guayape Valley, reflects this
risk.   A sensitivity analysis indicates that, with variations in the major
cost (+ 15 percent) and benefit (- 15 percent) streams, the reconstruction
would still yield an economic return of at least 13 percent.
Distribution of Benefits
55.       An analysis of the organization of bus and trucking operations in
the area, together with information on land tenure patterns, provides a
general indication of the distribution of the savings in vehicle operating
costs.
56.       The common carrier bus operations in the area are generally organ-
ized on a cooperative basis, both for scheduling purposes and for protection
of the operators' interest; buses are privately owned, and entry into the
market is free. The operators may try to maintain tariffs at current levels
after the road is completed, but this will be difficult because other opera-
tors, perceiving profits, will enter the market, thus increasing the frequency
of service. Even if current tariff levels are maintained, the effect of
inflation would mean a reduction in tariffs in real terms and most of the
savings will eventually be passed on to bus riders who come from the lower
income groups. Of total project benefits, it is estimated that those accruing
to bus riders would be about 5 percent.



- 18 -
57.       Cost reductions for owners of automobiles and pickup trucks would,
in general, go directly to the owners, who are usually the most affluent
elements of the population. These benefits are estimated at 13 percent of
the total.
58.       Truck operating costs will be influenced the most by the improved
surface and gradients, and reduction in these costs will be responsible for
82% of the total benefits of the investment even though trucks represent only
50% of vehicular traffic on the Talanga-Juticalpa section and 32% on the
Juticalpa-Catacamas section. About 35 percent of the trucks haul timber, and
saving attributable to this traffic will account for 29% of total benefits of
the investment. These benefits would initially be passed on to sawmill
owners who serve as middlemen in the lumbering operation, contracting for
trucking at the lowest possible rate in a competitive market. The recent
takeover of the lumber marketing operation by the Government will, however,
allow eventual capture of the benefits by COHDEFOR through truck tariff
agreements and price adjustments for the sawmill outputs. A truck tariff
agreement, which is currently being negotiated, will make it possible for the
Government to implement weight restrictions without major tariff increases on
the project roads and would allow the state to benefit in the form of longer
life for the roads and reduced maintenance costs.
59.       Truckers carrying agricultural commodities in the area are com-
petitive, and operating cost savings should be passed on to shippers in the
form of lower tariffs. Larger farmers, who hold over 40 percent of the land
in the Guayape Valley would benefit the most initially since they are geared
to commercial production. However, there are many small holders in the
valley (under 50 ha), and recent (1976) figures indicate that progress on land
reform is being made there.   Sixty-six agrarian reform settlements with about
1,400 families have been established. Depending on how far the policy is
carried out, more peasants are likely to gain control of valley land, and the
implementation of a rural development project will enable them and existing
small holders to increase their share in the benefits of the road. Since
agricultural trucking benefits are estimated at 53 percent of the total
benefits of the civil works investment, progress on land reform and the
development of a project for the valley will be important determinants of
the distribution of benefits from the project.
Maintenance Investment
60.       Based on an analysis of the entire road network, it has been deter-
mined that the level of maintenance expenditure in Honduras is not sufficient
to keep the current road network at a reasonable standard, and premature re-
construction and high vehicle operating costs have been the result. Consi-
deration of the present backlog and the future net additions to the main-
tenance load indicates that the current expenditures of approximately L 11.0
million per year should be stepped up to about L 19.0 million by 1979. The
economic analysis carried out was designed to determine whether the expendi-
ture of an extra L 8.0 million per year for maintenance would be justified,
since the Bank contribution would be a part oL this increase. This stream of
extra expenditures was compared only with the estimated annual savings in



- 19 -
avoided reconstruction costs and yielded a benefit-cost ratio of 1.7 over a
15-year period. As is the case with most investments in an adequate mnainte-
nance program, the expenditure is well justified, and the Bank contribution to
the overall program would yield a satisfactory return.
Studies and Technical Assistance
61.       Benefits from the studies to be carried out under the project and
from the technical assistance have not been quantified. These elements, how-
ever, are clearly justified since they would assist the Government in deter-
mining investment priorities in the subsector, in preparing a program of
complementary investments for the area of influence of the road and in im-
proving operations in the transport sector as a whole.
Conclusions
62.       The proposed road reconstruction is one of the links of the primary
road network that has been developed, for the most part, during the last ten
years. It will provide efficient access to one of the largest valleys in the
country and to the southern part of the Olancho forestry reserve. Access from
the north coast is unlikely to be completed in less than ten years, making the
project road the sole outlet for products from this area. While COHDEFOR has
a program under way for managing the forest reserve, the development of the
Guayape Valley is less certain, and the proposed study of the valley would
ensure that the Government will have the necessary information as to the
practicable potential of the valley and the investments and institutions
required to realize that potential.
63.       The investment in maintenance equipment is a part of a larger prog-
ram that is well justified economically and should be of very high priority.
The loan conditions specified above (paragraphs 40-41) are designed to ensure
that all actions necessary to the effectve execution of this program will be
taken. The technical assistance associated with the maintenance component of
the loan is designed to improve the implementation capability of the road
maintenance organization.
64.       The other technical assistance elements are designed to help streng-
then the planning and implementation capability of MCOPT, an organization that
must be improved if it is to deal effectively with the more demanding and
sophisticated planning requirements of the future, and to improve operations
of the local construction industry.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreements between the Republic of Honduras and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the Resolutions approving the



- 20 -
proposed loans are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. A
special condition of effectiveness is the creation of a project unit within
the MCOPT to administer the project (para. 45). A condition of disbursement
for laboratory and workshop equipment is the improvement of facilities where
they are to be installed (para. 40).
66.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for Third Window
operations.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp



ANUEX I
TABLE SA
HONDURAS           - SOCIAL INDICATORS OATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU   21               ...-
HONOURAS                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19t0)
TlTAL      112.1                                    MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        ..                     1960      1970   ESTINATE         PARAGUAY      DOMINICAN REP. COSTA RICA i
GPN PER CAPITA (USs)                   170.0      290.0       350.0 /d          350.0      380.0     560.0
___ _....__ ..  A.._.....
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
............. ...................... 
POOULATION (RIO-YR. tILLION)           1.9        2.5         2.9 d            2.2        4.1         1.?
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KR.                      Ir.0       22.0        26.0 /d           6.0       83.0        34.0
'ER SQUARE KM. AGRIC. LAND            ..                                      ..       168.0      106.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRtH RATE PER THOUSAND       54.0       51.5       49.3              01.8       47.3        11.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND       26.5       19.1        14.6              10.8      13.1.       8.3
INFANT NORTALITY RATE C/THOU)         ..         ..        118.0 /          67.0       103.0 5.   62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH tYRSI       41.0       49.4      53.5              60.1       55.1        65.4
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE               ..        3.4        3.3               3.2        3.5         3.4
POPULATION GONTH RATE (t)
TOTAL                                3.0        2.T *      2.7 / *            2.5 /a    2.9/i      I.3
JRsAN                                0.3        r.9        5.0               3.4        5.6        4.r
UR8AN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)         23.0       32.0       31.0              36.0       40.0       46.0
AGC STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                      47.8       46.?       45.7              46.4       47.5       49.0
1 TO 64 YEARS                      49.?       50.9       52.1              50.4       49.4       48.0
6S YEARS AND OVER                    2.5        2.4        2.2               3.2        3.1        3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.0        1.0        0 9               1.0        1.0        1.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6/a      1.5 /      1.5/              1.6        1.Y/       1.6
FAMILY PLANNINGC
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOUI          ..        20.7      80.1                         36.8       35.5
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         ..         ..
EMPLOTMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         570.0      600.0      880.0              700.0     1100.0     540.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULIURE (ID        6?.0       65.0       66.0              53.0       55.5       *LO
UNEMPLOYED tx OF LABOR FORCE)          6.0        8.e         ..               1.5       14.0d       5.1 I/
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
_ _v__.......... ___------
I 3F PRIVATE INCOME REC*0 BY-
HiMBT 5% OF HDUUSSHLDS                 ,,       28.0 b      ..               30.0      26. 3       23.0 /c
HIGiiST 205 OF IDuxeis                 ..       60.6         ..             62.0        54.34!     50.- Lj
WSST 20% OF Hl0SIEOLS                            2.5       ..                4.0        4. 3 4     5.4/4
OTN     40S oF USZ                     .         . 14       .1 ..                      12.4        14.6 L
DISTRItSUTION or LAND OWNERSHIP
------        --1------z
I DEO We     TOP 0l1 OF oW6ERS          ..          ..        ..                ..       62.7
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS                ..              ..                ..        1.8
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
............. ....------..... .. ... 
POPLKATION RER PHYSICIAN                ..     3710.0 Le   3710,0/!         2340.0 /c  2100.0     1630.0
POPULATION RER NURSING PERSON       2190.0 :0      ..      2070.0 /4        2310.0     3 I930.0   1690.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          590.0 4    5r0.0         800.0 /        620.0      350.0      250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIREMENTS)        84.0       96.0       94.0             121.0       91.0      110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             53.0       58.0       56.0              14.0       50.0       63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        21.0 /d    25.0         ..              41.0       29.0       35.0
DEATH RATE tITHOU) A6ES 1-4           14.0       10.0        9.0                - 9       1T.0       6.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEO ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOO.                      61.0       86.o       81.0 /a           93.0 /d   107.0       108.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     6.0       10.0       18.0 7             17.0      19.0        28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(RIStST AMO SECOND LEVEL)           12.0       12.0       12.0               12.0      12.0       11.0
VOCRT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(t OF SECINDARY)                    24.0       18.0         ..               6.0        5.0       10.0
ADJLT LITERACY RATE (tl               47.0         ..       52.0              79.0        50.0      s9.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)             1.8         ..         ..                ..          ..       1.1
OCCU?IED OWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (t)                     88.0 /       ..       60.0 /a
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(t OF ALL ODELLINGS)                15.0         ..         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (t)                   2.0         ..         ..
CONSJ8PT ION
_.... ......
RADIO RECEIYRS (PER THOU POP)         66.0       51.0       56.0              71.0       38.0       ?1.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          3.0        5.0        6.0               7.0       10.0       23.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          52.0       127.0     145.0              91.0       227.0     591.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              0.4        1.0        0.7               1.7        1.0        6.2
.......... ....N AM.4__ DEINITION  O.______._________________REVERSE.___________________________________________.
SEE NOTES AM DEFINITIONlS ON REVERSE



NOTES
Unless other7ise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betsmen 1968 nd 1970, and for Most R..ent Estimate between
1971 and 1973.
* Largely due to emigration since 1969 of El Salo1dores- s resident in Huedo.ra, population groth rate is lowe, then the rare ci natural in.c.a..
Costa Rica haa been selected as an objective country for Honduras bcgu.se both countries  re small, open economies, dependent on agricultural enports
and both have special trade relationchips with other Central American countris.   Yet, Costa RiLC  has achieved a  .uch higher standard of lIving and a
nore even distribution of the benefitt of developsent than Honduras.
HONDURAS            1960    /a  Ratio of pop.aition under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;   lb  1963,  incIlding  idlvel and assi t     nt
7W  1962:   /d  1961-63;  /t   Piped water inside.                       _        ,
1970   /I    Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;  hb 1967-68a   atf   eatieataj    /t tAistered, not a1l
practicing in the country.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:   /I   IBRD Mision estimate;    /b  Ratio of ppulattion under 15 and 65 and over to total Ilbor furce,    /c  1974;
7d  1975,   In 1970-75.
PARAGUAY            1970   /I   Due to nigration, the growth rate is lower thsn the rate of natural increase.   lb   Registered only;    /c  Coverage of
data unikuow,   /d  7ntluding primry evening achools
DOMTNICAN RByP.     1970    /a  Census figure,   /b  Due to migration, growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase,   Ic  Ratio of population   od
15 ucd 65 and over to total labor force,   /d  Seta soDmingo only:   /e  Santa Domingo, urbanu.
COSTA RICA          1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor farce;   /b  Open unemply.ont.    /c 1971
R6, August 24, 1976
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL lhDICATORS
Lund Area (thou kon                                                                  population per norsLeg persun - Population divided by emrber a! practici.R
Total - Total surface area comprio    1-g lord ares and inland water.                  male and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nuroes, and
Aric. - Most recent ontinute of agricultural areu used temporarily or per-             *uxiliary personnel with training or eaparience.
naeently for crops, pastures, macket & kitchen gardort or to lie fallo.1            Poo2lation nor h.eeital bed - Population divided by number of hospital
IMP per oselta ((US$  - CN? per cpit    tates at cruFFn=ar-et prices                    beds available in publie -d private general and    peofalied hospital
culclucted by sace conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);              and rehabilitation centers. eseludet nusting hees and establishment,
1960b 1970 and 1975 data                                                              for eu todial and preventive cars.
Per eapite supply of calories (7. of requiremaets) - Computed from
pu..latios und vital utatiutica                                                         energy eqaivalent of net fund suppliea available ie country per
Population (.id-vr. million) - Au of July firrt   if not available, average             capita per day; avilsble supplies comprise domeutic production, imp-nts
of two end-yoar eslmaote. 1960, 1970 and 1975 data                                    less eI. prts, and changes in stoch, net   ndppiie  ecelde animal feed,
aee,ds, quantities used is fond frunsing and loae    t  distributio.,
Population  osIty - per square an - Mid-year population per equore kilo-                ceqoiremeuca were estimated by PAO based on physiologieal ne.da for
=eter (1f hectares) of total are-                                                     nor_nl activity acd healch conaldering enviresnaatal temperature, body
Pooulatiun density - per snore kan of airic. iod - Computed ae above for                weights, age and sex dlPtrlbutions of population, and allmeing 10t for
ugrfcultural land only.                                                                aste at household level.
Par csita sumple of protein (Rreas per day) - Protein -content of par
VItal otatltio.s                                                                        napita net supply af food per day, net supply of food is defAmed as
Crude birth rate per thousand - Annjul live births per thousand of mid-yeor             above, roquiremoots for a11 countries -stablished by ESDA Eco    in?mai
population, te_-year _rithmetic acerage- ending in 1960 snd 1970, sod five-           Research Services provide for a  iolmnimau  llsarce of 60 gram  of total
year a-eragf endang  u 1975 for moot recent estimate                                  protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and palIe protein, of which
Crude death rate per thaucand - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                  10 gross should bh animal protein; these standards sre Soer then
population. ton-year arithmetic averagon ending ic 1960 and 197i end                  those of 75 grama of total protein and 23 gr      of anialI protein as
floe-year son cg   eding in 1975 for most recent estiare.                             an aerage for the world, propoaed by FAO is the Third World Fted
Iefant =ortallty rate (/tho.) - Annusl deaths of infants under one year  f              S"rvey.
age per rhoea,id lice birthc                                                        Per capita protain sanplv from enimal and pulse - protein supply of
Life enpeet.ncy at birth (yre) - AOvrage number of years of life renaimnig              fund derived fro  animals and pulses in grase per dy.
at birth, usually fiv^-year -ver-ges ending in 1960, 1970 ond 1975 for              Death rate (/thoul) age  1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
doocloplegroun trion                                                                  years, to children in this ugo gro-p. suggested as an indicator of
Crose roproductlon rac-A Averge    m sher of live daughters a woan vil                   milnutrition
bear in her normal reprod-cttve period if oh ex per Lon.s present ago-
specific ferillty rutes, uIually fie-yer   -ergos ending in 1960,                 E ducation
1970 and 1975 far develofegf countrie.                                              Adjusted enrolluot ratio - primary school - inrallomat of a11 ages as
Population growth rate (7.) - total - Compound annual growth rates of aid-              percentage of primary school-age population; includes children aged
year populatipp for 1950-hO. 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                     6-11 years but adjusted for different lengtha of primary education,
Population growth rate (.) - urb-a - C=puted like growth rate of total                  for countries with universal education, emral.nt may emceed d100
population; different definitiors of urban areas may affect compors-                 since some pupils are below or above the official achool age.
bility of data among countries                                                     Adjusted eailmost ratio - .s.ond-ry schooi - Computed as     bove,
Urban population (b of total) - Ratio of urban to total population, diffe-             secondary education tequfree at 7ear four years of apprved primary
rent definitions of urban srno- may affect conparability ot data smong               instructios, provides general, vocation.. or teacher training
countries.                                                                            instruc,tions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of se; orer,speadrence
Age atructare (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),            courses are generally eocluded,
and retired (65 years and over) aa percentages of mid-year population.             Years of achonlia  provided (first and second leval    - Total yeacr of
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                 schooling; at aecondary level, vocational inetrucgin may be partially
those of ages 15 through 64.                                                         or completely e.cluded.
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over             Vocational enrollment (7. of secondary) - Vocational institutiona
to the labor force In *ge group of 15-64 yers.                                       include technical, industrial or other programs which operate  Wde-
Family Plann_ia  - acceptors (cumulative, thon) - Cumulative number of                 pendently or ms departmsent. of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-concrol devices under auspices of national family               Adult literacy rate C7) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
planning program since inception.                                                    percentage of total sdult population aged 15 years and   ver.
Faily planning  - uoero (7 of married women) - Percentages of married
woiwn of child-bearing age (L5-44 years) who use birch-control devic..
to all married women in same age group.                                            Person  per room (average) - Average numabr of persona per roos in
occupied conventienal dwellings in urban areas; dellings exclude non-
BUnslovment                                                                            permanent trstnOred envd unoecupied parts.
Total labor force (thousand) - Econoically active peruome, including                 Occu0iad dwellings without niped water (O - Occapied conventIonal
armed forces and semployed but encluding honoowives, studeota, etc.                  dellings in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped
dafinitioma in various countries are not comparable,                                 w ter facilitins as percentage of l11 occupied dwellings.
Labor force in agriculture (7.) - AgricIltural labor force (in farming,              Access to Inctnicit (*7. of all dwelLings) - Conventi.naI dwellings with
forestry, hunting and fishing) as percentage of total Iabor force.                   electricity in living quarters as per cet of total dwelling  in  rban
Unemployed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons              and rural areas,
who are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day,               Rural dwellings connected to electricity (7) - Computed as above for
remained out of a joo, end sa-king work for a specified mLninau period               rural dwellings only.
not excseeding one weob may sot be comparable betees  countries due to
different definitions of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employ-              Conaunnilon
mont office statistics, aample *urveys, compulsory unemployment insurance.         Radio receivers (per thou nop) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
castst general public per theusand of population, eousunlicensed
Incoae distribution - Percentafe of private income (both in nash and kind)             rceivtier  in 'ctries and in years wham registration of radio sets was
r  eived by richest 5%, richest 20%, poureat 20%, and pooreat 40% of                 iD effect; data for rocent yesrs nay not be compsrable since nost
households.                                                                          countries abolished licen.ing.
Passengaer ears (per thou pep) - Passenger cars comprise smter cars seating
Distribution of land on-ership - Percentsges of land owned by wealthfest               less than eight perona; exld      ambulances, hearses and   ilitary
10% and poorest 10% of land owners,                                                  vehicles.
Flectricity (kwh/yr nor cap) - Annual tonsosption of industrial, co.er-
Health and Nutrition                                                                   cial, public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita.
Populacion per physician - Population divided by an-ber of practicing                  generally based on production data, without allowasc. for loos.e  in
phyainians qualified from a medical school at university level,                      grids but allowing for inperts and eoipnrts of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per can) - Per capita annual nonuomption in kilogr-ete
estimated from daestic production plus net imports of new-priot.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1976)
Loan or                                                        US$ million amount
Credit     Year            Borrower             Purpose       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
No.'
Fourteen loans and credits fully disbursed         52.1     26.5
767       1971    Emp. Nacional Portuaria     Ports
841       1972    Emp. Nacional de Energia    Generation &    9.0        -        3.8
El6ctrica                   Transmission 12.3       -        1.5
896       1973    Honduras                    Roads          18.8        -        8.4
434       1973    Honduras                    Second Livestock
Development     -        6.6       3.8
452       1974    Honduras                    Education         -       3.0       1.7
954       1974    Honduras                    Education       3.0        -        3.0
1081       1975    Emp. Nac'l de Energia       Generation &
El6ctrica                  Transmission  35.0       -
Total                                             130.2     36.1      50.5
of which has been repaid                         19,
Total now outstanding                             110.7     35.6
Amount sold                             2.6
of which has been repaid              2.5         0.1       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    110.6     35.6
Total undisbursed                                  45.0      5.5      50.5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1976)                                 Amount in  US$ million
Year            Obligor             Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1964i/66  Emp. de Curtidos Centro:
americana S.A.(ECCASA),      Tannery                0.30     0.08       0.38
1969/70  Cia. Pino Celulosa de Cen-
,tro Am6rica (COPINO)        Pulp and paper           -       o.o8      o.08
Total gross commitments                              0.30     0.16      0.46
less cancellations, termination, repayments
and sales                                          0.30     o.16       0.46
Total corvitments now held by IFC                     -        -         -
Total undisbursed
' Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECT IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 767     Second Port Project:   US$6.0 million Loan of June 25, 1971;
and US$3.0 million Supplemental Loan of July 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: February 22, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project consists of the expansion of Puerto Cortes on the
North Coast of Honduras, and the construction of the new port
of Henecan, in the South. The San Lorenzo port was delayed
about 18 months as a result of Government reconsideration of
its location. The Puerto Cortes expansion was completed in
March 1975. The Bank provided additional financing of US$3.0
million, which was necessary to cover the increased cost of the
San Lorenzo port resulting from the high level of inflation
during the period of the delay. Construction of this port is
now proceeding satisfactorily and should be completed in
September 1977.
Ln. 841     Fifth Power Project:   US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The Honduras-Nicaragua interconnection line, a principal
element of this project is now complete. The extension of
service to the Aguan Valley was delayed because of delays in
negotiations with the principal potential customer in the
vallev. Standard Fruit. Discussions with Standard are conti-
nuing and the power Company is studying other demand in the
Valley to determine whether an extension is justified. Other
elements of the fifth project (extensions to new areas, the
26 MW La Ceiba Diesel plant, consulting services and training)
have either been completed or are proceeding on schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any pro-
blems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sen--, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 896      Sixth Highway Project:   US$18.8 million Loan of May 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
This project, for construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga
highway, was delayed by about six months while the Government
redesigned sections of the road in an attempt to lower costs.
Construction has proceeded satisfactorily and should be com-
pleted by December 1976. Engineering studies of feeder roads
to complement the highway have been completed.
Cr. 434      Second Livestock Project:   US$6.6 million Credit of
October 29, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Commitments under this project slowed during 1975 because of
uncertainty resulting from the implementation of the Agrarian
Reform Law. With an increased level of commitment in 1976 as
procedures under the Law became clarified and the allocation
of up to US$1.0 million in uncommitted funds for the rehab-
ilitation of the Isleta Agrarian Reform settlement, this credit
is expected to be fully disbursed by December 1976.
Ln. 954      First Education Project:   US$3.0 million Loan and US$3.0 million
Cr. 452      Credit, both of January 9, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project is proceeding normally with the construction of
training and teaching facilities.
Ln. 1081     Sixth Power Project:   US$35.0 million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Construction is proceeding on schedule, and is expected to be
completed by December 1978.
Cr. 628      First Agricultural Credit Project:   US$14.0 million Credit of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1976
Closing Date: June 15, 1981.
We are now awaiting satisfaction of the conditions for effec-
tiveness.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Borrower:                 Republic of Honduras
Amount:                    (a)  US$28.0 million equivalent
(b)  US$7.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    (a)   20 years including 4-1/2 years of grace, at 8.7
percent per annum.
(b)  Standard Third Window terms with interest at
4.7 percent per annum.
Project Description:      The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  Reconstruction (including paving) of the primary
road between Talanga and Juticalpa (about 114
km);
(b)  Reconstruction (including paving) of the
secondary road between Juticalpa and Catacamas
(about 41 km);
(c)  Purchase of maintenance and workshop equipment,
including spare parts and laboratory equipment;
(d)  Consulting services for:
(i)  preparation of a Highway Mlaster Plan (about
56 man-months);
(ii) technical assistance to the General Direc-
torates of Highways and of Highway tMainte-
nance, including an on-the-job training
program for engineers, supervisors and
technicians as well as fellowships abroad
(about 65 man-months);
(iii) technical assistance to the local road
construction industry (about 20 man-months);
(iv) study of an integrated development program
for the Guayape Valley (about 33 man-months);
and
(v)  supervision of construction of items under
(a) above (about 522 man-months).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
Estimated Cost:                                                                Foreign
US$ Millions           Exchange
Local   ForeiL&n  Total      Comjtonent
A. Civil Works
(a) Reconstru.iction of the
Talanga-Juticalpa Road        8.2    17.3      25.5         68
(b) Reconstruction of the
Juticalpa-Catacamas Road      1.8     3.7       5.5         68
Sub-total                10.0    21.0     31.0
B.  Right-of-Way                      0.1        -      0.1
C.  Purchase of Maintenance and
WorkshopjEytuiprent Spare Parts
and Laborato2ryj quipmrent         0.3     2.5      2.8         90
D.  Consulting Services
(a) Preparation of a Highway
Master Plan                    0.1    0.3       0.4         80
(b) Technical Assistance to
two MCOPT Directorates         0.1    0.3       0.4        80
(c) Technical Assistance to the
Local Road Construction
Industry                         -    0.1       0.1        80 /1
(d) Study of an Integrated
Developmaent Prograin of
Guayape Valley                 0.1    0.5       0.6         80
(e) Supervision of Construc-
tion of Itemn A above          1.2    1.3       2.5        50
Sub-total                  1.5    2.5       4.0
Total Base Costs          11.9   26.9      37.9
E. Contingencies
(a) Physical (10% of Item A)       1.0    2.1       3.1         68
(b) Price Adjustment (about
27% of project cost)           3.3    6.9      10.2        68
Sub-total                  4.3    9.0     13.3
Grand Total               16.2   35.0     51.2         68
/1   Local cost component of about 20,000 not shown because of roulitig.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Financing Plan for
the Project:                                            US$ Million  Percent
IBRD (including Third Window)        35.0       68.0
Local contribution                   16.2       32.0
Total                            51.2      100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Millions
FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80    FY81
Annual                0.5    6.5   12.5   11.0    4.5
Cummulative           0.5    7.0   19.5   30.5   35.0
Procurement
Arrangements:           The construction of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas
road would be carried out by contracts awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement"; prospective
bidders would be prequalified. MCOPT proposes to
divide the works into four bidding units: Talanga-
Guaimaca, Guaimaca-Guayape River, Guayape River-
Juticalpa and Juticalpa-Catacamas. MCOPT proposes to
invite bids under the "packaging" system, whereby
contractors may bid for each of the four sub-sections
separately or for any combination thereof; contracts
would be awarded on the basis of the lower of (a) the
lowest evaluated bid for the four sub-sections or (b)
the lowest combination of evaluated bids for each
subsection. The estimated cost of each subsection
varies between US$5.5 and US$9.5 million, and it is
likely that the contracts would be won by foreign
firms who would operate either in joint venture with
local firms or who would subcontract part of the
works to local firms. The bidding and contracting
procedures for the construction works should be
discussed and agreed during negotiations.
Road maintenance and workshop equipment will be pro-
cured, through international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement."
In bid evaluation, consideration would be given to
the need for standardization of equipment, which is
especially important in a country such as Honduras,
with a modest econ^y, limited facilities for repairs
and a scarcity of qualified mechanics and operators.
Items that cannot be grouped in packages of at least
US$30,000 and would not in aggregate exceed the



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
equivalent of US$300,000 would be procured in accord-
ance with local procurement procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Local procedures will also
be applied for the purchase of urgently needed spare
parts, and laboratory equipment which only a few
specialized firms supply, up to an aggregate US$300,000
Rate of Return:           The economic rate of return for the highway reconstruc-
tion element of the Project is estimated at 15 percent.
Staff Project Report:     No. 1253-HO, dated November 1,1976.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable and Key Events
(a) Project Preparation
(i)  Feasibility Study of the Talanga-
Juticalpa Road by Consultants          January 1969-January 1971
(ii) Feasibility Study of the Juticalpa-
Catacamas Road by Consultants          June 1974-September 1975
(iii) Detailed Engineering of the Talanga-
Juticalpa Road by Consultants          January 1972-November 1973
(iv) Detailed Engineering of the
Juticalpa-Catacamas Road by
Consultants                            August 1975-April 1976
(v)  Technical and Economic Study for
the Purchase of Maintenance
Equipment by Consultants               June 1975-March 1976
(b) Project Preparation Agency
Ministry of Communications,
Public Works and Transport
(c) Preparation - Preappraisal
(i)  First Government presentation          Early 1973 (no formal
of project to Bank                     request received)
(ii) First Bank mission to consider
the project                            June 1973
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure                 February 15, 1976
(e)  Negotiations Completed                      October 1976
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                  March 1977



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Special Bank activities in implementing the project are to assist
the Government in:
(a) Preparing terms of reference for consultants for the preparation
of the Highway Master Plan, for technical assistance and for the
study of the Guayape Valley (assistance to be provided through the
FAO/IBRD Comparative Program) between January and April 1977;
(b) Evaluating consultants' proposals for the above tasks between
March and June 1977;
(c) Reviewing the recommendations of the Highway Master Plan and the
study of the Guayape Valley between July and December 1978.
Section III - Special Conditions
The Government has agreed that it will:
(a) By June 30, 1977, take all necessary action to cause the dimension
and weight of the vehicles using the national roads to be kept
within the limits provided by pertinent laws and regulations
(para. 40);
(b) Prepare by June 30, 1977 a plan of action for engaging and
retaining qualified personnel for the MCOPT (para. 45);
(c) By December 31, 1977, improve the equipment repair facilities in
the two main workshops to a level satisfactory to the Bank, in-
cluding the disposal of the old units that are stockpiled in
these workshops, (Condition of Disbursement, para. 40);
(d) Prepare, with FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program assistance, terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank for a study of development of
the Guayape Valley (para. 38);
(e) Add to the MCOPT staff three engineers and two administrators
who would form a special unit responsible for carrying out
the project, (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 45);
(f)  Enter into an agreement with the Camara de Construccion
acceptable to the Bank, to provide for the participation
of the local construction industry in the studies designed
to improve their operations (para. 41); and
(g) Allocate from the budget for the 1977-1980 period, specified
minimum amounts for road maintenance activities (para. 40).






IBRD-10395R1
8i9.                      w                                                                                                                                           CUBA
ISLAND  ISLAND4C
.    I      BE   L:E                              C A /7RIBfSf FAN                  BO'G/0ATAN ISLAND     SE A  -AE                                           U   AE ICE       nRC  R  r AN
UTILA ISUAND
VULF OF H ONDU RAS                                                                                                                        L ALUB  NICUBUOUU
GX                                                   AIN<[HAMEIKO)r@t/-A \S W 1 t X v~~~~~~PU                                                   Th  ALALARSU  1o.  A' . AO,9 'do I
sO _                                                                           t  X k PUERTA C I A A DEI  O ST
Y.                                                         L /N NEMX
s ,g  U  A  J., E  M  A         IF- N.                                        H1                              I   /   eoEC to 3-O\
1aA > 4 k ( '-1 = = SUR~~~IL                                  L|nAY  e0E0 I.Am*SnitT-
\o                                                                   8  _  I ,   11 ........ w I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
E,IR SAL N RPT A J    L , D^CAON A.D:ElnPn
DULCE NOMBRE 
f A C / f / C  O e A S                 f OlvRf A                                                         DE CULM Of  O  2       5      I               T I A e$ tSdl
13' NAP'                   sr AN, e7 ,  ;        B' SUN                               A .  MNTO  SUN FRANCISCO
OLLUTEDOALU CInY  rIGHT'.  BACIUSL "     TL-A                                             CASATACACEDOA 
E  MINAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~ODUA
STA ROS  LA L40     EL PORIEN IRMAI                                                                HIGHWAJNETWOR
FR A            F.                                              H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EONDHIHWYUROJCASS -O
I  EL        LANGA                                                                   -HIRS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRP HIGHWAY _PROJECT (CEEN 13-HO)
r  E  m  p  I  R   A      AN JUAN/                                                               M.mt-- 'Mj-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CArSEYSO  A  ar  l EMA  L  B
E FLORES'                                            SEC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOPNP HLGLO-WAY PROJECTRor49-OC'LAIRU
J  YAMAR  ANI  ......                 LAS ANIMAS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T (FITHRIRWY1ROEC5(OBH45-o
U. IAL.  ERAND.QUE  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.EOTE                                           tUnad  IIriIByAEUSr
J              SMTA  W   [A                                              =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IlE  IGHNWAY PROJECT  Loonl 89-RO)
ARCALA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANASRSABO eUSap-aBg
',UE-ERI                                                            FOU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRETH HIGHWAY FROJECTIL 40-1 l THO
SIXMTn  HIHA   POETSO-89-O
YUT~~~~~~n.  EL  SE  ISLAND  LARUEO  S  C~~~~~~~~~S MAI  SA              C  US- s                                     TgdvIpiTs  ,g
GULF  OF  ICE  U  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  SPUN  0   IF0                     l  "   -g "I  
IN  9                   E&                           S~~        ~        ~   ~    ~~~~~~                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TA.  1 B  N  -bR  UUT17



