CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1341 HO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Seventh Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 16, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan (hereinafter
called the Standard Loan) as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide ad-
ditional assistance towards the financing of the Project under the
Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window established by Resolu-
tion No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the Bank, and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(hereinafter called the Third Window Loan Agreement) the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Third Window Loan); and
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend that the proceeds of
this Loan and of the Third Window Loan be disbursed ro rata on
the basis of a 4:1 ratio;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Standard Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Obras Pfblicas" means the Borrower's Secretarfa de Com-
unicaciones, Obras Publicas y Transporte, or any successor thereto;
(b) "Recursos Naturales" means the Borrower's SecretarTa de
Recursos Naturales, or any successor thereto;
(c) "DGR" and "DGRM" mean, respectively, the Directorate
General for Roads and the Directorate General for Road and Airport
Maintenance, both administrative divisions of Obras Pfiblicas, or
any successor thereto;
(d) "Cgmara" means C9mara Hondureia de la Industria de la
Construcci6n;


﻿-3
(e) "Project Unit" means the unit to be established within
DGH as required by Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(f) "FAO" means the Food and Agriculture Organization, a
specialized agency of the United Nations, or any successor thereto;
and
(g) "FAO/BANK Cooperative Program" means the cooperative
program described in the memorandum of agreement signed, between,
inter alia, FAO and the Bank, dated April 2, 1964., as amended;
(h) "Roads" means all roads that are included in the term
carretera, as that term is defined in Article 1 of Decree No. 173
of the Borrower, entitled Ley de Vias de Communicacon Terrestre,
dated May 20, 1959; and
(i) "National roads" means all roads defined in Articles 2,
3 and 4 of Decree No. 173 of the Borrower, entitled Ley de Vias
de CommunicacTon Terrestre, dated May 20, 1959.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Standard Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Standard Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) .n re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Standard
Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Standard Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Standard Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Standard Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Standard Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D,
E and F of the Project through Obras P6blicas, and Part G of the
Project through Recursos Naturales, substantially in accordance
with an implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity wi7.h appropriate engi-
neering, administrative and financial practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the supervi-
sion of Parts A and B of the Project and in the carrying out of
Parts C through G or the Project, the Borrower shall employ engi-
neering and agricultural consultants acceptable to the Bank, whose
qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however,
that for purposes of Part G of the Project, the terms of reference
for the studies to be carried out thereunder shall be prepared by
the Borrower with the assistance of FAO under the FAO/BANK Coop-
erative Program and shall be acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree and
for the purpose of carrying out Parts A through F of the Project,
the Borrower shall:


﻿*                           -7-
(a) continue to operate until the Closing Date a Project
Unit within DGR, which shall perform such functions as are set
forth in Schedule 5 to this agreement; and
(b) employ at all times within such Project Unit not less
than three highway engineers and two administrators, all of them
with such experience and qualifications as shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to provide for Canara's cooperation
with the Borrower in the carrying out of Part F (1) of the Project,
the Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1977 or on such later
date as the Bank shall agree, enter with Camara into a contract
satisfactory to the Bank, and, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce such con-
tract or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Standard Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Standard Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, maintenance
equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Standard Loan shall
be used solely for road maintenance purposes.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Standard Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Standard
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall fur-
nish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the proceeds of the Standard Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire, before commencing any construction work
for Parts A and B of the Project, all such land and rights in res-
pect of land as shall be required for carrying out such construc-
tion work and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after each such


﻿-9 -
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes of each such
construction work.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) not later than June 30, 1977, submit to the Bank a de-
tailed plan setting forth the action to be taken by the Borrower,
including, without limitation, the provision of adequate incentives,
in order to recruit and retain the services of qualified personnel
for DGR and DGRM; and
(b) prior to the effectiveness of such plan, allow the Bank
a reasonable opportunity to comment upon the plan and upon the
steps to be taken for putting the plan into effect.


﻿-10                                    0
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on,     Standard Loan, and the Borrower, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
adminittrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges e   the Standard Loan by an equivalent lien on other
public assets s7tisfactory to the Bank.


﻿*                           -11 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause all national
roads of the Borrower to be adequately maintained and cause all
necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with sound
engineering practices; (ii) cause all road maintenance equipment
of the Borrower to be adequately maintained and cause all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with
01


﻿-12-
sound engineering practices; (iii) cause existing repair workshops
to be adequately maintained, particularly by improving, not later
than December 31, 1977 and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
the equipment repair and laboratory facilities at Tegucigalpa and
San Pedro Sula (including disposal of obsolete equipment presently
stockpiled therein); and (iv) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
foregoing.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower shall take all necessary action to: (i) not later than
June 30, 1977 or such other date as shall be acceptable to the
Bank, cause the dimensions and weight of the vehicles using the
national roads of the Borrower to be kept within the limits pro-
vided by the laws and regulations of the Borrower; and (ii) ex-
change views with the Bank on any proposal to amend or supplement
such limits.
(c) To assist in planning the development of the Borrower's
road system, the Borrower shall establish and maintain facilities
to collect and record such data as shall be required to assess the
technical, economic and financial aspects of the Borrower's road
system, and shall from time to time exchange views with the Bank
regarding the plans for development of its road system.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Standard Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Third Window Loan Agreement, other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled; and
(b) that the Borrower has established within DGR the Project
Unit which is described in Section 3.03, and whose functions are
set forth in Schedule 5, of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date of March 16, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance and Public Credit of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:
Minihacienda
Tegucigalpa
Honduras
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washihgton, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Roberto Lazarus Bernhard
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Standard Loan and of the Third
Window Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Standard Loan
and of the Third Window Loan to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works               21,000,000         68% (represent-
ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(2) Equipment for              2,000,000
Part C of the
Project (other
than workshop
and laboratory
equipment included
respectively, in
Categories (3) and
(14))
(a) Imported                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Imported but                            90%
locally
procured


﻿-17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3) Workshop                     400,000
equipment
(a) Imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Imported but                             90%
locally
procured
(4) Laboratory                   100,000
equipment
(a) Imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Imported but                             90%
locally
procured
(5) Consultants'
services
(a) Parts A and B         1,300,000          50% (represent-
of the Project                          ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(b) Part D of the           300,000          80% (represent-
Project                                 ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(c) Part E of the           300,000          80% (represent-
Project (includ-                        ing the estimated
ing fellowships                         foreign expendi-
for DGH and                             ture component)
DGHM's personnel)


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(d) Part F of the           100,000          80% (represent-
Project                                 ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(e) Part G of               500,000          80% (represent-
the Project                             ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(6) Unallocated                9,000,000
TOTAL     35,000,000


﻿-19-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $40,000, may be made in
respect of Category (5) (b) on account of expenditures incurred
before that date but after September 1, 1976; and
(b) in respect of expenditures under C&tegories (3) and (4)
of paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Borrower shall have pro-
vided adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
installation of the respective equipment to be financed under such
Categories.


﻿-20-
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank hes reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Construction of a two lane paved road between Talanga
and Juticalpa, about 114 kms long, the design standards
thereof to be as specified in Annex A to this Schedule.
Part B:   Construction of a two lane paved road between Juticalpa
and Catacamas, about 41 kw- long, the design standards
thereof to be as specified in Annex A to this Schedule.
Part C:   Improvement of Obras Pfblicas' maintenance and control
operations by means of the acquisition and utilization
of:
(1) maintenance equipment (including spare parts there-
for);
(2) workshop equipment; and
(3) laboratory equipment.
Part D:   Review and improvement of the Borrower's road transport
planning,including, inter alia, the preparation of a
plan (the Borrower's Highway Magster Plan), for the pur-
pose of determining (i) an economically and financially
feasible program of road construction; (ii) the basic


﻿data therefor and the methods for collection of such
data (including road inventory); and (iii) the institu-
tional organization required for the foregoing and for
the timely updating of such plan and of the relevant
data base.
Part E:   A program for training of:
(1) DGR's personnel, in the fields of highway design,
supervision of road construction, and laboratory
controls, including fellowships abroad as determined
from time to time by the Bank and the Borrower; and
(2) DGRM's personnel, including on-the-job training
in one of DGRM's districts with a view to extending
the program to DGRM's other districts, and fellow-
ships abroad as determined from time to time by
the Bank and the Borrower.
Part F:   A program to:
(1) improve the capabilities of the Borrower's con-
-struction industry, including, inter alia:
(a) review of the capacity, structures and
methods thereof; and


﻿-23-
(b) provision of technical assistance in the areas
of bidding, cost control, financial planning
and management, site operations and equipment
management.
(2) improve the business relationship between the
Borrower and the domestic construction industry
through a critical analysis of the Borrower's laws
and regulations concerning such industry, including,
inter alia:
(a) review of Borrower's prequalification, bidding,
bid evaluation and contract award procedures;
(b) review of Borrower's procedures for supervi-
sion of works, payment to contractors and
settlement of disputes with respect to con-
tracts; and
(c) recommendation of specific measures to be
taken by the Borrower with a view to improving
such industry's operational efficiency.
Part G:   A program of studies, under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank, in the area of influence of the
Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road (Guayape Valley) with
a view to the integrated rural development of such area.
Tet                           *
The Proj ect is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿-24-
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for Roads
Included in Parts A and B of the Project
Design Elements                              Terrain
Flat    Rolling    Mountainous
Part A of the Project
Design speed (km/h)                 100       70           50
Pavement width (m)                    7.30     7.30         7.30
Lanes (no.)                          2         2            2
Shoulders (m)                        1.85     1.85          1.85
Minimum horizontal radius (m)       300      100           60
Maximum gradient (%)                  4        6            8
Width of right-of-way (m)            4o       4o           4o
Design loading for bridges
(AASHTO)*                             HS - 20 - 44
Pavemen type-Design              Asphalt concrete carpet - 5 cm
axle load = 8 tons            thick
Part B of the Project
Design speed (km/h)                  90       60           4o
Pavement width (m)                    7.0      7.0          7.0
Lanes (no.)                          2         2            2
Shoulders (m)                        1.50     1.50          1.50
Minimum horizontal radius (m)       280      100           50
Maximum gradient (%)                  4        6            8
Width of right-of-way (m)            40       4o           4o
Design loading .for bridges
(AASHTO)*                                 - 20 - 44
Pavement type-Design                    Double surface treatment
axle load = 8 tons
* American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials


﻿*                           -25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1981
through May 1, 1996                          $905,000
On November 1, 1996                               $850,000
9T7o the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-26-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Standard Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2.60%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         4.80%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                   6.95%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                   7.85%
More then eighteen years
before maturity                         8.70%


﻿*                           -27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Parts A and B of the Proj-
ect shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A
of the Guidelines.
3.   For bidding purposes, construction works under Part A of the
Project shall be divided in three sections, namely: Talanga-Guaimaca;
Guaimaca-Guayape River; and Guayape River-Juticalpa; and Part B
of the Project shall be considered as a fourth bidding section.
The invitations to bid for such works shall, inter alia, specify
that:
(i) bidders may submit bids for one or more sections;
(ii) all bids shall be opened simultaneously;
(iii) awards shall be made on the basis of the lower of:,


﻿-28-
(A) the lowest evaluated bid for the four sections;
or
(B) the lowest combination of lowest evaluated bids
for each section.
4.   For bidding evaluation purposes for equipment under Part C of
the Project, adequate consideration shall be given to the avail-
ability, in the Borrower's territories, of spare parts and services
for such equipment, as well as to the advantages of standardization
with the existing Borrower's equipment.
5.   Equipment under Part C of the Project shall be grouped so as
to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with appro-
priate technical and procurement practices. Whenever possible, each
bid package for such items shall be for an estimated amount of not
less than the equivalent of $30,000.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to Part A (4) hereof, spare parts and laboratory equip-
ment for Part C of the Project may be procured in accordance with
the Borrower's ordinary procedures; provided, however, that the
aggregate cost of the spare parts and laboratory equipment so
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000.
2.   Equipment under Part C of the Project, other than the equip-
ment referred to in paragraph B.1 above, which cannot be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or


﻿-29 -
more may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's ordinary
procedures, provided, however, that the aggregate cost of the
equipment so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and
the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modi-
fications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿-31 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Unit
The Project Unit will have, inter alia, the following functions:
(i) Assist Obras P'6blicas in:
(A) the processing of proposals from consultants
concerning the Project, analysis of such
proposals, and recommendations for award of
contracts;
(B) all activities related to the purchase and
delivery of equipment and spare parts required
for the Project;
(C) the preparation of progress reports concerning
the Project; and
(D) the financial control of the Project.
(ii) Oversee the consultants' work and check compliance
of the consultants with the agreed terms of refe-
rence;
(iii) Review the monthly statements to be submitted to
Obras PGblicas by consultants and by contractors for
disbursement purposes; and
(iv) Coordinate the carrying out of the Project.


