                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                        Report No: 74451-YE




                             EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER

                                           ON A

                                   PROPOSED GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 65.1 MILLION
                          (US$100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                         FOR AN

                      EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT



                                    JANUARY 31, 2013




Human Development Department
Egypt, Yemen, Djibouti Country Management Unit
Middle East and North Africa Region


This document is being made publicly available prior to Board consideration. This does not
imply a presumed outcome. This document may be updated following Board consideration and
the updated document will be made publicly available in accordance with the Bank’s policy on
Access to Information.
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2012)


                      Currency Unit = Yemeni Riyal
                         YR 215.52 = US$1
                           US$0.65 = SDR 1

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CBY      Central Bank of Yemen
COCA     Central Organization for Control and Audit
CT       Cash Transfer
CSO      Civil Society Organization
DA       Designated Account
DFID     Department for International Development
ECRP     Emergency Crisis Recovery Project
ESSNEP   Emergency Social Safety Net Enhancement Project
FM       Financial Management
FMS      Financial Management Specialist
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOY      Government of Yemen
HBS      Household Budget Survey
IAD      Internal Audit Department
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally Displaced People
IFR      Interim Financial Report
ISA      International Standards on Auditing
ISP      Institutional Support Project
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
MENA     Middle East and North Africa
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOPIC    Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MOSAL    Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OM       Operations Manual
PA       Payment Agency
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PFS      Project’s Financial Statements
PMT      Proxy Means Test
PWP     Public Works Project
PST     Project Support Team
SFD     Social Fund for Development
SSN     Social Safety Net
SWF     Social Welfare Fund
TA      Technical Assistance
UCT     Unconditional Cash Transfer
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
WA      Withdrawal Application
WB      World Bank
WFP     World Food Program
YER     Yemeni Rials
YPO     Yemen Post Office


                  Vice President:        Inger Andersen
                Country Director:        Hartwig Schafer
                Country Manager          Wael Zakout
                 Sector Manager:         Yasser El-Gammal
               Task Team Leader:         Kamel Braham
                                                REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                            Emergency Crisis Recovery Project

                                                             CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                       Page
   A.  Introduction ......................................................................................................................... 1 
   B.  Emergency Challenge: Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for the
   Proposed Project ......................................................................................................................... 1 
   C.  Bank Response .................................................................................................................... 5 
   D.  Appraisal of Project Activities ............................................................................................ 7 
   E.  Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan .......................................................... 11 
   F.  Key Risks and Mitigating Measures ................................................................................. 14 
   G.  Terms and Conditions for Project Financing .................................................................... 15 

Annex 1: Detailed Project Description ...................................................................................... 16 

Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring ........................................................................ 21 

Annex 3: Summary of Estimated Project Costs ....................................................................... 22 

Annex 4: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) ................................................ 23 

Annex 5: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................... 27 

Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements ...................................................................................... 34 

Annex 7: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements ..................................................... 36 

Annex 8: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members ............................................... 39 

Annex 9: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework ................................................ 40 

Annex 10: Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 45 

Annex 11: Documents in Project Files ...................................................................................... 47 

Annex 12: Statement of Loans and Grants............................................................................... 48 

Annex 13: Country at a Glance ................................................................................................. 50 

Annex 14: Maps........................................................................................................................... 52 
                                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                       EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT

                             EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER

                     MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA REGION


                                     Basic Information
 Country Director: Hartwig Schafer                Sectors: Other social services (80%); Health
 Sector Manager/Director: Yasser El-              (10%); General education sector (10%)
 Gammal/ Steen Jorgensen                          Themes: Social safety nets (50%); Nutrition
 Team Leader: Kamel Braham                        and food security (30%); Child health (10%);
 Project ID: P133811                              Education for all (10%)
 Expected Effectiveness Date: 03/29/2013          Environmental category: C - Not Required
 Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery           Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2014
 Loan                                             Joint IFC: No
                                                  Joint Level: N/A
                                  Project Financing Data
 [ ] Loan [ ] Credit [X] Grant [ ] Guarantee            [ ] Other:
 Proposed terms:
                                   Financing Plan (US$m)
                      Source                                    Total Amount (US$m)
 Total Project Cost:                                                              102.0
    Cofinancing:                                                                    0.0
    Recipient:                                                                      2.0
    Total Bank Financing:
                                                                                  100.0
       IBRD
                                                                                    0.0
       IDA                                                                        100.0
          New                                                                     100.0
          Recommitted                                                               0.0
                                     Client Information
 Recipient: Republic of Yemen
 Responsible Agency: Social Welfare Fund (SWF)
 Contact Person: Mr. Mansour Alfeadi
 Telephone No.: (967-1) 544-012 Fax No.: (967-1) 544-011
 Email: info@swf.gov.ye
                        Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
 FY                              2013       2014
 Annual                           60.0       40.0
 Cumulative                       60.0     100.0
                       Project Development Objective and Description
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES: The objective of the proposed Emergency
Crisis Recovery Project (ECRP) is to assist the Recipient in mitigating the impact of the 2011
crisis by providing cash benefits to eligible poor households.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: The proposed ECRP will finance cash assistance grants to poor
households in Yemen through the Social Welfare Fund cash transfer program. Poor households
to be covered by the grant have been added in 2011 to the SWF beneficiary list after applying a
Proxy Means Test (PMT) poverty-based targeting.

Component 1. Cash Benefits to Poor Households: Provision of temporary cash benefits to
eligible poor households for a maximum period of fifteen (15) months.

Component 2. Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Strengthening the capacity of the Project
Implementing Entity for Project monitoring and evaluation through financing of consultants’
services.


                                Safeguard and Exception to Policies
Safeguard policies triggered:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                       [   ]Yes   [X] No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                               [   ]Yes   [X] No
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                        [   ]Yes   [X] No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   [   ]Yes   [X] No
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                    [   ]Yes   [X] No
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                             [   ]Yes   [X] No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       [   ]Yes   [X] No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                 [   ]Yes   [X] No
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                            [   ]Yes   [X] No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                     [   ]Yes   [X] No
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?          [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                         [ ]Yes [ ] No
                                  Conditions and Legal Covenants:
Financing Agreement Reference                   Description of          Date Due
                                            Condition/Covenant
Article V5.01                           The Subsidiary Agreement By effectiveness
                                        has been executed on behalf
                                        of the Recipient and the
                                        Project Implementing Entity.
A. Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an International
Development Association (IDA) grant in an amount of SDR 65.1 million (US$100 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Yemen for an Emergency Crisis Recovery Grant (ECRP).

2. The proposed grant will help finance the costs associated with the Government’s efforts to
sustain delivery of critical social services which were negatively affected by the 2011 crisis.
Yemen experienced intense and far-reaching country unrest from February 2011 until November
2011, which resulted in increased poverty, deterioration of the nutrition status of the poor and
disruption in the delivery of basic services. The country continues to suffer from these
disruptions while the social and economic context remains very fragile and vulnerable. The
proposed support will assist the Government in mitigating the impact of the crisis through
financing cash benefits to poor families made more vulnerable by the crisis.

B. Emergency Challenge: Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for the
Proposed Project

Country Context

3. In 2011, Yemen experienced mass protests, violent clashes, and armed conflict that
resulted in the election of a new President and the formation of a transitional government.
The poor performance of the Government’s development strategy in the decades following the
national reunification of 1990, driven by weak institutions and poor governance, triggered
increasing social and political tension. Exacerbated by deteriorating economic conditions, these
tensions culminated in 2011 with mass protests, occurring in the context of events termed the
“Arab Spring?. The protestors demanded better governance, representation and economic
opportunities, and the protests resulted in the transition agreement brokered by the Gulf
Cooperation Council (GCC). In early December 2011, a transitional government was formed
which was mandated to steer the process of constitutional changes, reform the military apparatus,
manage economic recovery, and prepare for the next general election in early 2014. The
transition government is working to stabilize the country within an overall complex and difficult
security and economic environment.

4. The conflict situation caused significant disruptions in the supply and production chains
and this resulted in contraction of the economy and higher unemployment. Economic activity
contracted by 10.5 percent in 2011, and is estimated to contract further by 1.9 percent in 20121,
leading to higher unemployment. Unofficial estimates suggest that up to one million workers
may have lost their jobs in 2011. The reduction in fuel availability, particularly diesel, further
aggravated shortages in electricity and water supplies. The repeated sabotaging of the pipelines
in the Marib and Ras Issa areas and continued road insecurity have led to a sharp decrease in
crude oil production by about 40 percent in 2011, and a similar loss expected in 2012. The


1
 Other estimates might deviate from the forecasted growth depending on the assessment of the transition dynamic in
Yemen. Overall, growth forecasts remain subjected to larger errors than usual during the transition period.



                                                        1
agricultural, service and industrial sectors faced significant cost increases for inputs such as
irrigation, transportation and marketing, ultimately reducing production and exports.

5. Poverty, which was already increasing prior to the crisis, is estimated to have risen further
                                                                     2
from 42 percent of the population in 2009 to 54.5 percent in 2012. Poverty is particularly high
in rural areas, which are home to about 73 percent of the population and 84 percent of the poor.
Urban poverty is concentrated primarily in Sana’a and Aden and is particularly extreme in
Hodeidah, Taiz, and Mukalla. An estimated 806,586 people are now considered most vulnerable
                                                   3
due to current and previous conflicts in Yemen, including children who have been directly
involved in or affected by the infighting and violence, as well as 213,000 vulnerable returnees
and war-affected persons in the north, 203,900 refugees and asylum seekers,4 and approximately
150,000 displaced people in the south.5 At the same time, social service delivery has been
dramatically affected across Yemen, leaving the vulnerability of a large part of the population
unaddressed, and contributing to loss of livelihoods. The dramatic and immediate negative
impact of the 2011 crisis on individuals’ health and wellbeing can be directly traced to Yemen’s
chronic under-development, particularly with regard to basic social services.

6. Yemen remains one of the ten most food insecure countries in the world and the most food
insecure country in the Middle East North Africa (MENA) Region. According to the U.N.
World Food Program (WFP), approximately 45 percent of the population (10 million people)
was food insecure in March 2012, a significant increase from the nearly 32 percent level of food
                     6
insecurity in 2009. Nearly one million children under five years of age are acutely
malnourished, with 61 percent of all children under five malnourished, compared to 58 percent in
2006. About two-thirds of very young Yemeni children are stunted, and severe (life threatening)
stunting affects one-third of all children in the country. The prevalence of hunger and
malnutrition is predominantly rural. Yemen is highly reliant on food imports, which account for
81 percent of food consumption. As a result, the country is particularly vulnerable to external
food price shocks.7 With the average Yemeni daily nutritional intake only 300 calories above
hunger, domestic price rises will push many more Yemenis into food insecurity.

7. Fiscal policies in 2011 and 2012 were geared to containing the fiscal deficit. Revenues
declined because oil production had come to a halt during the 13 month stoppage of the Marib-
Hodeidah oil pipeline, the depressed economic activity, and the resistance of many to paying
taxes during this time of political uncertainties. The 2012 fiscal deficit is projected to reach
about 13 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) excluding grants (6 percent of GDP
including grants). The public expenditures program in 2012 is struggling with numerous risks,
domestic (security) and international (food prices, oil prices). While capital expenditures are still
far too low to generate recovery (4 percent of GDP), the Government is hoping to keep the
expenditures for petroleum subsidies constant in 2012. Raising revenues is politically

2
  Joint Social and Economic Assessment.
3
  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
4
  UNHCR. 2011. “2011 UNHCR Country Operations Profile–Yemen,? Global Appeal 2011 Update.
5
  Escalated fighting in Abyan Governorate, southern Yemen, displaced approximately 1,800 people in March 2012, according to the U.N. Office
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).
6
  U.N. WFP released preliminary findings of the recently completed Yemen Comprehensive Food Security Survey (CFSS) on March 14, 2012.
7
  The 2010 food price spike placed stress on the balance of payments, with estimates suggesting that a 50 percent increase in wheat prices cost
one percent of GDP and 20 percent of foreign reserves.




                                                                      2
impossible; large oil grants from Saudi Arabia (amounting to almost 6 percent of GDP) have
been keeping the Government financially afloat in 2012, especially during the first half of the
year. In addition, critical social expenditures are often competing with other expenditures
(salaries and security).

Impact of the crisis on basic social services

8. The country’s crisis has had a strong negative impact on the delivery of education services.
The 2011 conflict had a significant impact on the education sector, including damage to and
occupation of school buildings, inaccessibility of some schools due to insecurity, increased
absenteeism of teachers and administrative staff and less than full completion of the curricula in
2010/11 school year. The most visible effect was on the educational infrastructure damaged by
fighting or occupation by armed forces and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). According to
the Ministry of Education (MOE), about 810 schools have been more or less severely damaged
by the armed conflict, with buildings completely destroyed in some cases. During its Back-to-
School campaign in September 2011, UNICEF reported that more than 150 schools were
occupied by either armed forces or IDPs. In addition, the normal construction of school buildings
and delivery of equipment and material were affected by conflict-generated disruptions and
severe budget constraints.

9. Access to basic health services has deteriorated. It is estimated that the physical access to
fixed health facilities may have dropped to 50 percent from 68 percent before the conflict.
Insecurity and armed conflicts since 2011 have resulted in the displacement of hundreds of
thousands of Yemenis, affecting most of the governorates of the country. The situation has been
further exacerbated by the precarious status of basic social and health services, while the poor
level of nutrition for many Yemenis has had a detrimental impact on public health outcomes.
Key challenges resulting from the conflict and its aftermath include: (i) shortages of drugs and
equipment in health facilities at all levels; (ii) disruption in health services in governorates
affected by the conflict as a result of the destruction of health facilities, loss of equipment, drugs
and supplies, and displacement of health staff; (iii) lack of capacity of the emergency health
system to respond to the violence and accidents that occurred during the crisis; and (iv) the
additional burden put on an already weak health system by the IDPs.

10. The Yemeni population has suffered from a cycle of food price increases, floods, and
political instability since 2008. The 2011 crisis triggered additional price hikes. Public water
supplies, electricity and cooking fuel became scarce due to interrupted supplies. Water charges,
lighting and cooking fuel costs increased sharply. In urban areas and neighborhoods where
armed conflict occurred, such as in Sana’a and Taiz, families had to shoulder the costs of moving
from their homes to safer locations, either in other neighborhoods or in their home villages and
towns. Signs of distress within the general population have been observed, which are even more
severe in regions affected by political conflict and an already high poverty level. The most
affected groups in the population are clearly women and children. Coping mechanisms which
have been observed are: reduced number of meals; decreased dietary diversification; taking
children out of school and often times using them as laborers and in some cases, sending them
illegally to neighboring countries; foregoing medical treatment resulting in worsening maternal
and child health; increased household debt; and selling off of assets.



                                                  3
Government Response

11. Yemen has developed a Transition Plan for Stabilization and Development (TPSD) and
has received substantial aid pledges. Donors expressed strong commitment to support the
TPSD with total pledges of about US$7.5 billion received during the donors conference in
Riyadh and the follow up Friends of Yemen meeting in New York (September 2012). While
these pledges do not meet fully the Government's request to finance short-term needs amounting
to US$4.3 billion, and for the medium-term development priorities amounting to US$7.65
billion, the short-term needs and a large part of the medium term needs are funded. The
Government and its development partners are working closely together to access the pledges that
have been made. To this effect, a Mutual Accountability Framework has been agreed upon,
which binds the Government and the donors to their commitments.

12. The TPSD emphasizes, for the short-term, humanitarian, recovery and reconstruction
support, while aiming to maintain economic stability. As one of the priorities under the TPSD,
the Government has identified expansion of social protection and enhancing safety nets linked to
the dual objectives of social assistance (short term and during transition) and economic
development (long term and post transition). It intends to enhance the safety net mechanisms and
networks to support the poor, give priority to labor-intensive investments in all economic sectors
with special emphasis on youth and women in labor force participation, and expand the cash
transfers system through the SWF to assist the poorest groups. Leveraging support for the most
vulnerable is of highest priority for the immediate period. To this effect, the Government has
enrolled about 500,000 new beneficiaries to the SWF cash benefits program in 2011. The fragile
fiscal situation, reflecting the overall fragile political situation in the country, however, makes
this support ambitious.

13. In education, the main objective of the Government is to protect and consolidate the gains
in terms of access to basic education while promoting increased girls’ participation and
improved quality of learning. Yemen has made remarkable strides in expanding access to basic
education: Gross Enrolment Rate (GER) for basic education increased from 62 percent in
1998/99 to approximately 86 percent in 2010/11; and girls’ enrollment has increased
substantially from 42 percent to 76 percent. Despite this improvement, Yemen is unlikely to
achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of Education for All to ensure that all boys
and girls complete a full course of primary schooling by 2015, and quality of education remains
a challenge. While revising its National Basic Education Development Strategy (NBDES) to
update main targets and strengthen focus on quality, the MOE is addressing the impact of the
2011 crisis and conflicts on the sector’s operations. The education sector in Yemen benefits from
strong and coordinated support from various Development Partners.

14. The Government is working on meeting the health needs of crisis-affected populations,
particularly IDPs. Additional resources needed include essential drugs, medical equipment &
appliances and emergency care services. The TPSD response to the current challenges identified
three priorities for the health sector: (i) Humanitarian and Emergency Response: Enhancing the
National Emergency Response Systems; (ii) Essential Service Package: Increasing health care
access, availability and utilization; and (iii) Rehabilitation and Post Conflict Recovery: Ensuring
flexible and responsive organizations to deal with crisis and instability.



                                                4
Rationale for the Emergency Crisis Recovery Grant

15. The Bank is actively supporting Yemen’s post-crisis transition. In collaboration with the
United Nations, the European Union and the Islamic Development Bank, in 2012, the World
Bank (WB) prepared a Joint Social and Economic Assessment (JSEA) (Report #74316) to
evaluate the impact of the crisis and identify recovery measures. The JSEA was the basis for the
discussions at the donors conference in Riyadh and thereafter. In addition, the Bank has
developed an Interim Strategy Note to adjust its support to the current transition period and its
aftermath.

16. The proposed ECRP is in line with the JSEA recommendation of protecting critical social
expenditures in the short term, and with the TPSD objective of maintaining income levels and
critical basic services, especially for the poor. The ECRP is expected to contribute to the
stability of the transition through supporting the Government in providing immediate financial
assistance to poor households made more vulnerable by the crisis.

17. The possibility of using the Crisis Response Window (CRW) funds for this project was
considered. However, the CRW could not be used for one of the access criteria, namely, an
exogenous shock caused by either natural disaster or economic crisis affecting multiple
countries.

18. The WB builds on a long standing effort to support social sectors in Yemen, jointly with
other development partners. The WB has played a leading role in the past in supporting Yemen’s
Poverty Reduction Strategy and its embedded Human Development Agenda. The Bank has been
providing consistent support to the education sector with four currently active projects covering
basic, secondary and higher education. The Bank is also a major supporter of the health sector
with a particular focus on maternal and child health. In addition to direct support to key social
protection instruments in Yemen (the Social Fund for Development (SFD), the Public Works
Project (PWP) and the SWF), the Bank is working with other development partners on
improving the targeting and the impact of the country’s social programs.

C. Bank Response

Bank’s Strategy

19. The World Bank Group’s strategy to address the aftermath of the country crisis and
support the transition phase is framed in the recently prepared Interim Strategy Note (FY13-
14) (Report #70943) discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on November 13, 2012. The
interim strategy aims to help the Government to stabilize the transition phase in the short term,
and lay the groundwork for medium-term reforms. The ISN supports three strategic pillars:
(i) achieving quick wins and protecting the poor by creating short-term jobs, restoring basic
services, improving access to social safety nets, and revitalizing livelihoods; (ii) improving
economic management by helping maintain macro stability, strengthening fiscal policies and
public financial management, and improving the enabling environment for private sector growth



                                               5
and competitiveness; and (iii) enhancing governance and local service delivery by supporting
local governance, capacity building, service delivery, and improved citizen engagement.

20. While supporting enhanced access to basic services and infrastructure, the Bank’s strategy
aims at mitigating the impact of food price increases. One of the main available instruments to
address food price volatility is the support for safety nets and short-term income generating
activities, which contribute to improving the purchasing power of the most-affected segments of
the population and helping them address potential food price hikes and food security risks. The
proposed project is one among a set of new activities under the ISN, targeting the vulnerabilities
of poor people and marginalized groups in the short term. These also include: (i) Additional
Financing (US$25 million) to expand the SFD for Labor Intensive Works project (P133699) to,
on the one hand, cover unemployed youth and women and, on the other hand, include nutrition
services; (ii) an Output-based Maternal and Newborn Voucher Program (P144522)
(US$10 million) that would scale up existing Output-Based Aid (OBA) pilots; and (iii) a Second
Basic Education Development Project (BEDP II) (P130853) (US$66 million) to sustain support
to basic education, building on progress made under the earlier BEDP I (P076185).

21. Project Development Objective (PDO). The main objective of the proposed ECRP is to
assist the Recipient in mitigating the impact of the 2011 crisis by providing cash benefits to
eligible poor households.

22. Project description (See Annex 1 for detailed Project Description). The proposed project
will finance cash assistance grants to poor households in Yemen through the Social Welfare
Fund (SWF) Cash Transfer (CT) program. The SWF is the largest public cash-transfer-based
social safety net in Yemen, established in 1996. In 2011, the SWF expanded its coverage by 50
percent to reach 1.5 million households, representing 6.9 million individuals in all 21
governorates. The additional 0.5 million households were selected using a Proxy Means Testing
(PMT) method applied to the 2008 Households Survey to improve SWF poverty targeting. The
PMT method, developed with technical assistance from the Bank, aims to improve pro-poor
targeting based on specific features. In the PMT method, observable variables such as
individual/household characteristics and household ownership of durable goods are collected and
a series of “weights? are applied to predict household welfare. The PMT classified households in
six categories: Categories A to D included households considered as poor or extremely poor;
category E included households considered as vulnerable to poverty; and category F households
were considered as not poor. The ECRP will finance cash benefits to households from categories
A to D.

23. Project components

-   Component 1: Cash Transfer to Poor Households (US$99.8 million). This component will
    provide cash benefit payments to about 400,000 poor households. The project will finance
    cash benefits (about US$10-20 per month) to eligible households for a fifteen-month period.
    The associated service fees (1 percent) charged by the servicing agencies (Post Office and
    commercial banks) as well as the related SWF operational costs for project implementation
    will be financed by the Government.




                                                6
-   Component 2: Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Implementation (US$0.2 million). This
    component will provide consultancy services necessary to support the SWF in monitoring
    and evaluation of project implementation, including external audit.
Eligibility for Processing under OP/BP 8.0

24. Consistent with the guiding principles of OP 8.00, the proposed project will address adverse
economic and social impacts resulting from the crisis experienced by the country in 2011 which
resulted in increased poverty and vulnerability. The project is expected to assist the Government
of Yemen (GOY) in preserving the country’s human and social capital by financing cash benefits
to poor households across the country.

Consistency with Country Strategy

25. The recently adopted ISN lays out the World Bank Group’s strategy of assistance to Yemen
for the fiscal years 2013 and 2014, a timeframe that corresponds to the transition period and its
immediate aftermath. The proposed project is included in the ISN as one of the key components
of the Bank’s response to prevent a worsening of the current humanitarian situation and ensure
that the most critical social expenditures are protected. This proposed operation is also a first
contribution to realize the WB’s pledge made at the September 2012 Riyadh conference.

Expected Outcomes

26. The main expected outcome of the proposed project is sustaining financial support to about
400,000 poor households made more vulnerable due to the country crisis and price increases,
particularly for food. About 40 percent of households to be covered by the project have a woman
as a head of the household. The total number of individuals to benefit from the cash assistance
provided through the project is estimated at 2.4 million persons of whom 52 percent are females.

D. Appraisal of Project Activities

Economic and financial

27. Overall, the proposed project is expected to have significant national-level economic
benefits, given the relatively large number of households to be supported by the emergency
grant. About 400,000 households, identified as poor using a proxy means testing method, are
expected to receive cash transfers through the project. This represents about one third of the
total number of SWF program beneficiaries. The cash transfers to be financed by the project are
likely to result in: (i) increased consumption among beneficiary households; (ii) increased school
enrolment and attendance for children; and (iii) reduced rates of morbidity and malnutrition
among 0 to 5 year-old children. The income effect of the transfer (e.g., increased food
consumption, dietary diversity) is expected to produce improvements in the health and education
outcomes of children and the extended family. In addition to the direct welfare benefits arising
from improved health status, gains can also be expected through increased schooling levels and
improved cognitive achievement as well as productivity, earnings and income for adults.

28. By receiving regular cash transfers, households are likely to increase their food intake,
resulting in less food insecurity and the maintenance of productive assets. This is expected to


                                                7
have a positive effect on consumption smoothing. This will reduce both income poverty and
income inequality due to the redistributive effect of targeting the transfer to the poorest families
within the households. Unconditional Cash Transfers (UCTs) such as the one implemented by
SWF will give poor families the most flexibility and are administratively less challenging to
implement. UCTs are likely to impact human development where vulnerable groups have
sufficient access to information to make informed choices about health and education.

Technical

29. The proposed project aims to support the Government’s response to the 2011 crisis
aftermaths and particularly the mitigation of the impact of food price increases on the poor
households. The project design builds on the experience of the SWF in delivering direct cash
assistance and the improved targeting through the use of the PMT to identify the intended
beneficiaries of the project. The SWF is one of the main social safety net programs in Yemen,
and has been operating for over 15 years delivering cash assistance.

30. The design of the proposed project builds also on the experience and lessons learned from the
Emergency Social Safety Net Enhancement Project (ESSNEP) funded through the European
Union Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility, and will benefit from the technical assistance
provided to the SWF through the Bank-financed Institutional Support Project (ISP)(P#). The
project design used the results of the technical assistance provided to the SWF to reform its
targeting through the application of Proxy Means Testing (PMT) on their national database of the
poor.

31. Project implementation will be monitored through SWF M&E department reports, and a
beneficiary survey will be undertaken by an external firm.

32. An alternative option considered to finance food related expenditures was explored.
However, this option was not retained since food is imported by private firms in Yemen and
there are no associated subsidies from the Government. Also, food import subsidies have proven
in the past to be an unreliable tool to target poor households. Accessing funds made available
under the CRW to complement IDA funds in financing the ECRP was considered. However,
eligibility for CRW funds requires an exogenous shock, caused by either natural disaster or
economic crisis and affecting multiple countries at the same time. Specifically, the crisis is
expected to result in a widespread or regional year-on-year GDP growth decline of at least 3
percentage points in a significant number of IDA countries in order to justify accessing CRW
funds. It was concluded that the specific issues leading to the economic crisis in Yemen which
made this operation necessary were primarily country specific and limited to Yemen, and
therefore would not trigger access to CRW resources.

Social

33. Poverty targeting. The project will contribute to increased benefits to rural and urban
populations through the SWF’s focus on poverty targeting based on the PMT method, improving
the SWF’s ability to target those most in need.




                                                 8
34. Gender and Youth. Gender of the head of household is one of the variables in the PMT
poverty targeting method used for the selection of ECRP expected beneficiaries. The percentage
of households covered by the project and having a woman as head of the household is 39.9
percent. It is also estimated that about 52 percent of direct beneficiaries of the ECRP (members
of the households covered by the project) will be females. A recent survey by OXFAM in
Hodeida governorate found that women were empowered as decision-makers through the SWF
cash transfer program because, even though they are not head of the household in most cases,
they are the ones who determine “what foods were brought home, often choosing to buy
vegetables, medicine or livestock needs, in addition to the purchase of staple goods?. The project
will also benefit the youth, as about 52 percent, out of the 2.4 million ECRP beneficiaries, are
less than 18 years old.

35. Participation and inclusion. The project will benefit from ISP activities to support
participation of stakeholders such as CSOs, NGOs, and local authorities in enrollment,
recertification, and monitoring of the cash benefits program. The SWF has established a CSO
Coordination Unit in order to maximize resources and build social accountability for SWF
practices and procedures at the household level.

Environmental

36. The environmental category is C. Project activities (cash benefits and associated costs) do not
trigger any safeguards policy.

Fiduciary

37. Financial Management. A Financial Management (FM) assessment was conducted with the
objective of determining whether: (i) the SWF has adequate FM arrangements to ensure that
project funds will be used for the purposes intended in an efficient and economical way; (ii) the
controls and processes at the SWF can be relied upon; and (iii) the system in place is able to
generate reliable and accurate project reports on a timely basis. The assessment confirmed that
the SWF has adequate FM capacity to implement the project but is in need of enhancing its FM
system. The SWF weaknesses are being addressed through capacity building activities financed
under the Institutional Support Project and through mitigating measures included in the design of
the project. The SWF has gained experience from successfully implementing a WB-administered
and EU funded project, (ESSNEP) (P#?), which financed cash transfers to about 40,000 eligible
poor households which were identified through the SWF household survey and the PMT scoring.
The SWF submitted all audit reports.

38. The SWF has taken the following measures to reduce the project risks: (i) defined formal FM
procedures and controls applicable to the proposed project, including agreement on the role of
the Internal Audit Department, to be applied during implementation, and documentation of these
controls and procedures in the project procedures manual; (ii) retained a qualified Financial
Management Specialist based on TOR acceptable to the Association; (iii) established an
accounting system capable of recording project transactions and generating timely project
financial reports; and (iv) engaged an independent private external auditor acceptable to the
Bank, to perform quarterly audits of the project’s activities, especially verification on the cash



                                                9
transfer process, issue quarterly Audited Interim Financial Reports, and conduct the year end
audits on the Project Financial Statements.

39. Given the nature of the inherent risks in the country system and the nature of the project, and
in view of the FM arrangements already in place in the SWF, the overall FM risk rating of the
project has been assessed as High. There are no FM conditions for project effectiveness and the
FM arrangements will continue to be monitored throughout project implementation.

40. Procurement. The SWF has a Financial Department which is led by a manager seconded
from the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Financial Department has a procurement unit
responsible for all non-high value tenders. The Department is sufficiently staffed with
employees responsible for procurement who are familiar with WB procurement procedures.
Since there is very limited procurement involved in the project, the staff and other resources used
for the ISP will be sufficient to cover project-related activities.

41. The overall project risk for procurement is "Moderate" as the proposed project is the third
IDA-supported project to be implemented by SWF and there is very limited procurement
involved in the project.

42. Procurement under the project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank’s “Guidelines:
Selection and employment of consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers?, dated January 2011, and the provisions stipulated in the financing
Agreement. Procurement activities are open to all bidders from eligible countries as defined in
the guidelines. Consultants will be selected in accordance with WB Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by the WB Borrowers dated January 2011 and the Financing
Agreement. In addition, procurement under the proposed operation will be carried out in
accordance with the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects
Financed by IBRD Loan/Credits/Grants?, known as the “2006 Anti-Corruption Guidelines?. See
Annex 6 for details.

Lessons learned and reflected in project design

43. Global Experience with UCT programs. Over the past decade, the number of Cash
Transfer (CT) programs in the world has expanded substantially. The design of these programs
(both UCT and CCT) has been improving over the years, especially with regard to targeting,
often using the PMT methodology. Recently, both Africa and Asia have initiated CT pilots in
several countries, such as Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, Bangladesh and Pakistan. International
experience has shown that well-designed CT programs can cost effectively reach the poorest and
most needy households, and represent an effective alternative to poorly targeted and inefficient
subsidies. There is mounting evidence that CT programs are an efficient way of redistributing
income to the poor and thereby raising their consumption levels. Moreover, robust impact
evaluations of well-designed CT programs are starting to provide sound evidence of positive
impacts on school enrolment and attendance rates. The evidence on health outcome
improvements is currently less clear, but recent studies demonstrate that CT programs have
resulted in increased total food consumption and improved child growth.




                                                10
44. UCTs as an emergency response to the crisis. The option of supporting the SWF cash
transfer program is in line with the recommendations of the 2011 IEG report on Social Safety
Nets (SSN). While the choice of instrument should depend on the country context and the nature
of the crisis, the report indicates that case study evidence shows that UCTs were the most
appropriate SSN instrument to use in a crisis situation for three reasons: (i) UCTs can be
expanded or contracted without the constraint of “eligibility? limitations; (ii) UCTs are
administratively simpler than other programs and can be implemented more quickly than, for
example, programs involving procurement issues; and (iii) UCTs are often more politically
acceptable during times of crisis, as people are aware of the need to protect the population
affected by the crisis. Moreover, the project builds on an existing welfare system that has been
supported by the Bank and other partners over the past years.

45. Simplified project design. One of the key lessons learned with the ongoing emergency
programs is that an emergency project should have a simple project design that can be quickly
and efficiently implemented with a clear project development objective and easily monitored
indicators established from the beginning. The proposed project design builds on an existing
program with improved targeting to ensure effectiveness and maximize impact on the poor.

46. Use of existing implementing agencies with appropriate capacity. The implementing
agency should have the capacity to quickly mobilize human and financial resources (for project
preparation) to carry out the project activities. The SWF is an existing agency operating for the
past 12 years. It has recently carried out a national survey to improve targeting of poor
households. The targeting under this emergency operation benefited from the results of the
national beneficiary survey and the application of PMT methodology for the identification of
eligible poor. Prior to the introduction of PMT, the SWF identified beneficiaries based on social
categories resulting in significant inclusion error.

47. Emergency operations should focus on measurable results and outcomes tied to the
short implementation timeframe. The results framework under the project follows this
approach.

E. Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan

Institutional Arrangements

48. The project will be implemented under the WB’s OP.8.00 procedures, Rapid Response to
Crises and Emergencies, and hence, the operation is being processed on a fast track basis. The
project will be implemented by the SWF from March 1, 2013 to June 30, 2014. The SWF was
established in 1996 by Presidential Law No.31, and is governed by the revised Presidential Law
39 (2008). Its Board of Directors, headed by the Minister of Social Affairs and Labor, is
composed of the Vice Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of Social Affairs and Labor, Deputy
Minister of Local Administration, Executive Director of the SWF (member and secretary),
Executive Managers of Social Security Network Programs, and community representatives of
private sector and civil society organizations. The SWF is headed by an Executive Director who
is responsible for day-to-day operations. As of January 2012, the SWF had 1,810 staff operating
through a three-level organizational structure: head office in Sana’a with 190 staff; 22 branch



                                               11
offices covering all Governorates in Yemen, with 762 staff; and 214 district offices (out of 334
districts) with 816 staff.

49. The implementation will be carried out using an existing cash-transfer mechanism of the
SWF. This project provides cash assistance of up to US$20/month to about 400,000 households
for fifteen months. The beneficiary households have already been identified through PMT
scoring. Payments are made quarterly through Payment Agencies (PA). The main PA used by
SWF is the Yemen Post Office (YPO) which has 251 branches and mobile units, and is the most
wide-reaching financial agency in Yemen. The YPO delivers the checks/payments through its
branches and mobile units. In addition, areas that are not reached by the YPO are serviced by
Alamal and CAC banks. For payment to SWF beneficiaries, the PA charges a 1 percent service
fee, which will be funded by the government.

50. While the SWF is responsible for implementing project activities through its head office in
Sana’a and branch offices, a Project Support Team (PST) already established through the
ESSNEP and the ISP will provide coordination and fiduciary management support to
complement the skills not available in-house. The PST reports to the Executive Director, and
administers project funds. The PST includes a Technical Coordinator, Financial Management
Specialist, Accountant, Procurement Specialist, Procurement Advisor, Management Information
System (MIS) Specialist and Executive Secretary.

51. Project costs and financing. The total estimated costs for the proposed project amount to
US$102 million.

                        Table 1: Project Cost Summary (US$M)
                                          Total Project    IDA      Govt
                                              Costs     Financing Financing
                                                            (*)
          Component 1. Cash assistance            101.8       99.8      2.0
          Component 2. Monitoring and               0.2         0.2   -
          Evaluation
          Total                                   102.0      100.0      2.0
         (*) The IDA Grant will finance 100 percent of eligible expenditures of the US$100.0
         million Grant, as specified in the Financing Agreement.

Financial management and disbursement arrangements

52. The SWF will be implementing the proposed project. The SWF retains a qualified Financial
Management Specialist (FMS) whose salary is financed under the ISP. The SWF established an
accounting system capable of recording project transactions and generating timely project
financial reports. The SWF has developed an operational manual setting out the structure of the
cash transfer program, including fiduciary arrangements which are deemed to be adequate and
will be used for the project. The SWF will issue, on a quarterly basis, Interim Financial Reports
(IFRs) to be audited by an external auditor acceptable to the Bank and, on an annual basis,
Project Financial Statements (PFS) audited by an external auditor acceptable to the Bank. The
auditor’s Terms of Reference (TOR) will require the auditor to conduct a sample verification of


                                                 12
the eligibility of cash transfers through field visits and review of the cash transfers internal
controls process.

53. The flow-of-funds procedures, including the use of the Payment Agencies (PA) to transfer
funds to beneficiaries and the SWF reconciliation of the PA records, are acceptable and will be
used under the project. The risk of project funds being used for unintended purposes is mitigated
through the project design, including the SWF’s use of PMT, the beneficiaries certification
carried out by the SWF, MOF and COCA, the Program’s Operations Manual, the PST’s
accounting system, the SWF’s internal audit, the use of PA to channel the funds to beneficiaries
and the reconciliation of data provided by them, COCA’s audits of SWF, and the use of an
independent external auditor based on expanded scope of audit.

54. The project funds will be channeled through the SWF and deposited into a separate
segregated USD Designated Account (DA) in the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) to be opened
and maintained by the SWF (See Chart 1 below), under conditions acceptable to the WB.
Advances and Reimbursement based disbursement will be the main disbursement method.
Requests for payments from the Grant funds will follow the report-based disbursement method
and will be initiated through the use of the Bank’s Withdrawal Applications (WAs) supported by
agreed upon Interim Financial Reports (IFRs), PA’s Reconciliation Reports and DA Bank
Reconciliation and statements. Disbursement to the beneficiaries from the SWF will follow the
SWF’s Operational Manual and cash payments to beneficiaries will be carried out through PA
branches in the governorates. The project is designed to retroactively disburse up to 40 percent of
Component 1 to reimburse the SWF’s financing of eligible cash assistance payments made in the
second semester of 2012. These payments were made using acceptable arrangements including
the use of PA. This project will follow the report-based disbursement method, which will report
on eligible expenditures financed by the Government for component 1 as well a forecast of
expenditures for component 2. This disbursement method will allow for reimbursement of funds
advanced by the Government as agreed to be financed under Component 1 of the project and for
funds advance for component 2.


                                 Chart 1: SWF Flow of Funds


                                                              Government
                             Grant Funds
                                                                Budget




               Component                                                   SWF
                                           USD DA – CBY
                 Two




                                         Post
                                     Office/Banks




                                                 13
                                     Beneficiaries
Supervision, monitoring, and evaluation

55. Bank Supervision. The WB will supervise the project in accordance with the WB’s
applicable policies and procedures. The WB team will closely monitor project progress, and will
make full use of the Results Monitoring Framework (Annex 2) in this process. Supervision of the
project will be carried out by a WB team, including a financial management specialist, and a
procurement specialist based in the Yemen Country Office who should be able to visit the SWF
regularly, interact with SWF staff and have direct access to relevant documentation. Supervision
will be supplemented by the use of consultants, as needed, and missions will take place at least
twice a year. It is estimated that supervision will involve 40 weeks of staff time, given the need
for the increased intensity and frequency demanded by the emergency context.

56. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) will be undertaken by the SWF. Project activities will
be monitored on an ongoing basis to support achievement of the Project Development Objective.
Monitoring reports covering the key Project Outcome Indicators will be prepared according to
the schedule of frequency in Annex 2 (Results Framework and Monitoring).

(i) Monitoring. SWF’s M&E Department and governorate branch offices will monitor the cash
transfers as well as determine whether the ECRP CTs have been made to eligible beneficiaries.
CTs will be delivered through PAs on a quarterly basis. In addition, Component 2 will finance
consultancy services to monitor implementation and evaluate project outcomes.

(ii) Evaluation. An Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report will be prepared after
project implementation is completed. As part of the ICR, a sample-based beneficiary survey will
be conducted to determine the impact of the project on households’ welfare, e.g., food
consumption patterns, household debt, productive assets, etc. Satisfaction data (satisfaction with
the SWF payment mechanism, level of program information and support received from SWF)
will be collected at the same time.

Closing date and implementation schedule.

57. The project closing date is June 30, 2014.

F. Key Risks and Mitigating Measures

58. The overall risks rating for the project is Substantial because of country context, as well
as capacity and governance issues including, in particular:

(i) Given the overall weak governance at the institutional and country levels, the fiduciary risks
are considered as relatively high for the proposed project. These risks will be mitigated through
a number of measures. First, the ISP, which is under implementation, is providing intensive staff
training as well as introducing performance monitoring measures through the M&E system.
Further technical assistance will be provided through the ISP to strengthen the capacity of the
SWF in targeting, management and administrative processes as well as monitoring and
evaluation. The ISP Project Support Team in place will also handle project financial and
procurement management. The SWF’s Internal Audit Department (IAD) will add the proposed
project to its scope of work. The IAD will be responsible for checking the list of proposed


                                                 14
beneficiary households and confirming eligibility, including conducting regular visits to a sample
of selected beneficiaries and submitting internal audit reports to the SWF Managing Director.
The SWF’s Department of Allocation will be responsible for following up on payments of
beneficiaries. Also, the Project’s External Auditor’s TOR will include a special provision for the
Auditor to conduct field visits to a sample of the selected beneficiaries to validate the
beneficiaries’ eligibility and proper receipt of funds.

(ii) Not reaching the right beneficiaries targeted by the project is another risk. Social and political
pressures may arise which might exclude some regions from the project benefits during the
current period of political instability and widespread poverty, with the result that extremely
vulnerable families would not be reached by the program. This risk is managed through prior
selection of project beneficiaries which have been selected using data from the SWF national
survey (covering 1.6 million households) and using proxy means testing for targeting. The about
0.5 million households added in 2011 have been reviewed by a tripartite committee, including
the SWF, Central Organization for Control and Audit (COCA) and MOF.

(iii) There is also a risk of less than the full amount being paid to beneficiaries and untimely
delivery of cash benefits in remote areas not reached by the post office. This risk is mitigated
through using only PA, mostly the Post Office which has proven to be the most efficient way of
delivering cash in Yemen for the implementation of the ECRP. In addition, both the EU and the
Bank are providing technical assistance to strengthen SWF’s M&E system and to establish a
complaint handling mechanism which will be used for the ECRP.

G. Terms and Conditions for Project Financing

59. The project is expected to be funded through a US$100 million equivalent grant, which will
cover 98 percent of the project costs.

60. Effectiveness Condition: the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity.




                                                  15
                                          Annex 1: Detailed Project Description
            REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT

Background

61. Poverty in Yemen has increased as a result of the 2011 conflict. The share of population
under the country poverty line has risen from 42 percent in 2009 to 54.5 percent in 2012.8
Poverty is particularly high in rural areas, which are home to about 73 percent of the population
and 84 percent of the poor. Urban poverty is concentrated primarily in Sana’a and Aden and is
particularly extreme in Hodeidah, Taiz, and Mukalla. An estimated 806,586 people are now
considered most vulnerable due to current and previous conflicts in Yemen,9 including children
who have been directly involved in or affected by the infighting and violence, as well as 213,000
vulnerable returnees and war-affected persons in the north, 203,900 refugees and asylum
seekers,10 and approximately 150,000 displaced people in the south.11 At the same time, social
service delivery has been dramatically affected across Yemen, leaving the vulnerability of a large
part of the population unaddressed, and contributing to loss of livelihoods. The dramatic and
immediate negative impact of the 2011 crisis on individuals’ health and wellbeing can be directly
traced to Yemen’s chronic under-development, particularly of basic social services.

62. Food and nutrition situation has deteriorated. According to the U.N. WFP, approximately
45 percent of the population (10 million people) was food insecure in March 2012, a significant
increase from the nearly 32 percent of food insecurity in 2009.12 Nearly one million children
under five years of age are acutely malnourished, with 61 percent of children under five
malnourished, compared to 58 percent in 2006. About two-thirds of very young Yemeni children
are stunted, and severe (life threatening) stunting affects one-third of all children in the country.
The prevalence of hunger and malnutrition is predominantly rural. Yemen is highly reliant on
food imports, which account for 81 percent of food consumption. As a result, the country is
particularly vulnerable to external food price shocks.13 With the average Yemeni daily nutritional
intake only 300 calories above hunger, domestic price rises will push many more Yemenis into
food insecurity.

63. The cycle of food price increase, flood, and political instability since 2008 has had a token
on the Yemeni population, particularly the most vulnerable. Signs of distress within the
general population, more severe in regions affected by political conflict and high poverty levels,
have been observed. The most affected groups in the population are clearly women and children.
Coping mechanisms which have been observed are: reduced number of meals; decreased dietary
diversification; taking children out of schools and often times using them as laborers and in some
cases sending them illegally to neighboring countries; foregoing medical treatment resulting in
worsening maternal and child health; increased household debt; and the selling off of assets.
8
  Joint Social and Economic Assessment, 2012.
9
  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
10
   UNHCR. 2011. “2011 UNHCR Country Operations Profile–Yemen,? Global Appeal 2011 Update.
11
   Escalated fighting in Abyan Governorate, southern Yemen, displaced approximately 1,800 people in March 2012, according to the U.N. Office
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).
12
   U.N. WFP released preliminary findings of the recently completed Yemen Comprehensive Food Security Survey (CFSS) on March 14, 2012.
13
   The 2010 food price spike placed stress on the balance of payments, with estimates suggesting that a 50 percent increase in wheat prices cost
one percent of GDP and 20 percent of foreign reserves.




                                                                      16
64. In addition, the crisis has had an impact on the delivery of basic social services. Key
challenges resulting from the conflict and its aftermath include: shortage in drugs and equipment
at all levels of health facilities; destruction of and inaccessibility to health facilities and schools
in governorates affected by the conflict as well as loss of equipment, drugs, and supplies;
displacement and absenteeism of staff; and the additional burden of the IDPs on both health and
education systems. It is estimated that physical access to fixed health facilities may have dropped
to 50 percent from 68 percent before the conflict. Despite the resilience shown by the education
system, the school year 2010/2011 was shortened and the curricula not fully completed for most
Yemeni students.

65. The Government’s response to protect the poor was to expand the national cash transfer
program (SWF). The program has expanded from about 1 million to 1.5 million households after
applying poverty-based targeting (proxy means test) based on the results of the 2008 national
survey.

The Social Welfare Fund (SWF) Program

66. The SWF is the largest public cash-transfer-based social safety net in Yemen supporting
about 1.5 million households. The SWF was established in 1996 by Presidential Law No. 31
with the main objective of ensuring financial assistance for poor and unemployed persons and
helping those who can work to reintegrate into the labor market. It also aims to promote the
human capital of Yemeni children to break the intergenerational cycle of poverty.

67. In 2008, due to the increase in food prices, the Government doubled the amount received
by SWF recipients. Since then, the cash transfer ranges from 2,000 to 4,000 of Yemeni Rials
(YER) per household per month, and is transferred on a quarterly basis, mainly through Post
Offices. In remote rural areas, beneficiaries receive their payments through SWF’s district
cashiers. There are no conditions imposed, except having a renewed SWF registration card based
on the 2008 verification survey. Beneficiaries who meet specific criteria can get an advance
payment equivalent to their annual entitlement, to purchase income-generating assets. The
monthly amount of cash benefit is allocated based on the number of household members:

                       Table 2: Monthly Amounts of SWF CT by Family Size
                   Family size           Monthly amount in YER
                        1                         2,000
                        2                         2,400
                        3                         2,800
                        4                         3,200
                        5                         3,600
                   6 and more                     4,000

68. Up to 2010, about 1 million households were benefiting from the SWF cash transfer
program. These beneficiaries include two categories: (i) economic cases (unemployed, women
with no support); and (ii) social cases (disabled, orphans, seniors). The 2005/6 Household
Budget Survey (HBS) showed that SWF had poor targeting, as about 273,000 beneficiaries
(households) were found to be ineligible.


                                                  17
69. In 2010, the SWF introduced a PMT method to improve its poverty targeting. The PMT
method, developed with technical assistance from the Bank, aims to improve pro-poor targeting
based on specific features. In the PMT method, observable variables such as
individual/household characteristics and household ownership of durable goods (known as an
asset index) are collected and a series of “weights? applied to predict household welfare. The
weights are derived from the standard HBS information on household consumption and
household characteristics. Statistical models are developed and applied to applicant data to
predict household welfare and rank applicants/beneficiaries according to income relative to the
regional poverty line. This divides potential recipients into 6 categories from A to F, where
categories A and B are very poor, category C and D are poor, category E is vulnerable to poverty
and category F are non-poor.

70. In 2011, the SWF expanded its coverage by 50 percent to reach 1.5 households,
representing 6.9 million individuals in all 21 governorates. This development, planned since
2008 to expand the coverage to nearly all those below the poverty line, was delayed due to the
oil crisis and subsequent impact on government revenue. The implementation of the
Government’s commitment to expand SWF coverage took place in 2012 with retroactive effect
for 2011. The number of program beneficiaries increased from about 1 million to 1.5 million
households after applying the PMT method based on the results of the 2008 national survey. Of
the approximately 0.5 million new households included in the program in 2011, 70,000 were
supported through donor financing (The Netherlands and Department for International
Development (DFID) funded 30,000 households and EU funded 40,000 households for one year
each). The Government transferred cash to about 387,000 households (excluding beneficiaries in
Al Jawf Governorate due to security constraints) for a total cost of about US$93 million,
covering cash benefits due for 2011 and the first semester of 2012.

71. The SWF has just disbursed the cash benefits for the last two quarters of 2012 (except for
households from Al Jouf Governorate). Estimated cost for the 1 million previous beneficiaries
is about YER20.3 billion (US$94.4 million), while the estimated cost for the new cases (from
2011) is about YER11.6 billion (US$54 million) funded as shown in the following table:

                         Table 3: CT paid in 2012 for the SWF New Cases
                                   Number of beneficiaries        Amount in YER
        Disbursed by GOY                            386,872               8,935,665,600
    Financed by the Netherlands                      29,963               1,069,311,600
        Financed by the EU                           40,441               1,444,176,000
          Follow up cases                              8,201                102,476,400
               Total                                465,477             11,551,629,600




                                              18
Project Objectives and Description

72. Project Development Objective (PDO). The main objective of the proposed ECRP is to
assist the Recipient in mitigating the impact of the 2011 crisis by providing cash benefits to
eligible poor households.

73. The proposed ECRP will finance cash assistance grants to poor households added to the SWF
beneficiary list in 2011 after applying the PMT poverty-based targeting. SWF cash transfer
program beneficiaries to be covered by the ECRP will include about 70,000 households
supported through donor financing (The Netherlands, DFID and EU) in 2011. In addition, the
project will finance the monitoring of project implementation.

Component 1: Cash transfers to poor households (US$99.8 million)

74. This component will provide temporary cash transfers to about 400,000 poor households
selected among the SWF new beneficiaries who have been identified through the 2008
household survey and the PMT14 scoring. These households will receive YER2,000-
4,000/month/household, depending on family size (See Table 2), to help them cope with price
pressures for a period of 15 months. The grant will finance the cash benefits only excluding any
contracted payment agency administrative fee which will be financed by the Government.

75. Eligible beneficiaries. The ECRP will provide cash assistance to about 400,000 households
which have been added to the SWF program in 2011 using the PMT targeting method and
categorized as A, B, C or D. These households will include about 40,000 households funded by
the EU/WB ESSNEP and 30,000 households funded by the Netherlands.

76. Period of coverage. The ECRP will finance cash benefits for eligible households for a
maximum period of fifteen months occurring between July 2012 and December 2013.

77. Disbursement. The ECRP will reimburse the SWF actual cash transfer payments made to
the eligible beneficiaries. Disbursement will be made against proper financial statements in 4
tranches:

    First Tranche (40%): Retroactive financing of CT for the second semester 2012
    Second Tranche (20%): Reimbursement of CTs for 1st quarter of 2013
    Third Tranche (20%): Reimbursement of CTs for 2nd quarter of 2013
    Fourth Tranche (20%): Reimbursement of CTs for 3rd quarter of 2013




14
     Proxy Means Test (PMT) generates a score for each applicant on the base of observable characteristics using statistical
     models. Weights and selection of variables are derived from statistical analysis (usually Ordinary linear regressions, but it
     can be principal components analysis or discrete models) of detailed survey that had collected wealth information for the
     population of interest.




                                                               19
Component 2: Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Implementation (US$0.2 million)

78. This component will support the monitoring of the cash transfer process. In order to meet
project fiduciary and M&E requirements, the project will finance costs associated with the
monitoring and evaluation of cash transfers implementation. This sub-component will also
finance the external auditor for the project.

Targeting

79. Beneficiaries have been selected among the 495,459 households, identified through the PMT
screening and who received cash transfer benefits for 2012. In addition, the following criteria
will be used: (i) the 70,000 beneficiaries financed by donor programs will be included; and
(ii) priority will be given to households which are below the regional poverty line as determined
by the PMT. (categories A&B).




                                               20
                                                                     Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring
                                            REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT

                                      Project Development Objectives
                                      PDO Statement:
                                      The Project Development Objective is to assist the Recipient in mitigating the impact of the 2011 crisis by providing cash benefits to eligible poor households.
                                                                                                                            .

                                                                                                       Project Development Objective Indicators

                                                                                                                                                                  Data
                                                                                                                                                                               Responsibility
                                                                                                                                                                 Source /
                                                                                Cumulative Target Values                                   Frequency                              for Data          Description
                                                   Unit of                                                                                                      Methodolo
    PDO Level Results Indicators           Core                   Baseline                                                                                                       collection
                                                   Measure                                                                                                         gy

                                                                                 S2 2012      Q1 2013          Q2 2013      Q3 2013


PDO Indicator One: Number of                                                                                                                                     Monitoring Reports
households receiving cash transfers                 Number            -          400,000       400,000          400,000         400,000                            and Financial                   SWF
through the project                                                                                                                                                 statements


PDO Indicator Two: Number of direct                                                                                                                              Monitoring Reports
                                                   Number/P                      2.4 (50       2.4 (50         2.4 (50          2.4 (50
project beneficiaries (Number in                                      -                                                                        Quarterly           and Financial                   SWF
                                                   ercentage                     percent)      percent)        percent)         percent)
millions) of which female (percentage)                                                                                                                              statements




                                                                                                           Intermediate Results Indicators
Intermediate Result (Component 1)
Intermediate Result – Indicator One
Amount of grant transferred to                      Number            0             40            60             80              99.8           Quarterly             Statements                   SWF
beneficiaries ($US million)
Intermediate Result – IndicatorTwo:                                                 FS 1        FS 2          FS 3          FS 4
  Timely submission of financial                                                 submitted   submitted     submitted by submitted by
                                                      Text           N/A                                                                        Quarterly             Statements                   SWF
  statements for reimbursement of cash                                           by March    by May15,      August 15,   November
  transfers                                                                       31, 2013      2013          2013        15, 2013
                                                                                   MR 1         MR 2          MR 3
Intermediate Result – Indicator Three:
                                                                                 submitted    submitted    submitted by
Timely submission of Monitoring                       Text           N/A          by May      by August      Nov 30,
                                                                                                                                                Quarterly               Reports                    SWF
Reports
                                                                                  31, 2013     31, 2013       2013




                                                                                                          21
               Annex 3: Summary of Estimated Project Costs
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT

                Table 4: Project Cost Summary (US$M)
                                 Total Project    IDA      Govt
                                     Costs     Financing Financing
                                                   (*)
  Component 1. Cash assistance           101.8       99.8      2.0
  Component 2. Monitoring and              0.2         0.2   -
  Evaluation
  Total                                  102.0      100.0      2.0
 (*) The IDA Grant will finance 100 percent of eligible expenditures of the
 US$100.0 million Grant, as specified in the Financing Agreement.




                                         22
                                    Annex 4: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)
                               REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT


Project Stakeholder Risks                                           Rating: Moderate
Description:	There are no major issues related to stakeholders.    Risk Management: Project will have continuous close consultations with government counterparts
However, this is a transition government and the overall social    as well as DPs. Close supervision will allow follow up on the commitments taken by the GOY
and political picture is still shaping. Two possible risks: (i)    under the ECRP. In addition, the ISP which will be implemented in parallel will continue to focus
Social sector line ministries (education, health and social        on strengthening targeting, case management, communications, and instituting complaint handling
affairs), MOF, and Ministry of Planning and International          mechanism together with other partners (especially with EU)
Cooperation (MOPIC) cannot reach agreement on the
allocations to finance the urgent needs identified for education
and health and SWF operating budget; and (ii) the development
                                                                                              Stage: Preparation
partners (DPs) may have concerns with governance of the SWF        Resp: Bank                                              Due Date:                   Status: Ongoing
                                                                                              and implementation
in transferring the funds to the eligible beneficiaries.			

Implementing Agency Risks (including fiduciary)
Capacity                                                           Rating: Substantial
Description :                                                      Risk Management:
- The SWF staff capacity is limited without a proper HR             - The project will make use of the current fiduciary support provided to the SWF through the
   strategy in place, and the staff appointed by the Ministry of        ISP which has been in place for over two years, and have developed some knowledge of the
   Civil Service do not have required skills. Further staff             Bank’s financial and procurement requirements. Further technical assistance will be provided
   morale is low without appropriate compensation scheme                through the ongoing ISP to strengthen the capacity of the SWF in targeting, management and
   and lack of operating budget for proper case management.             administrative processes as well as monitoring and evaluation.
                                                                    - The SWF’s internal audit will audit the cash transfers which will be disbursed to the
                                                                        beneficiaries through the Post Office, and according to the SWF’s Operations Manual (OM)
                                                                        acceptable to the Bank. Additionally, the project’s accounts will be audited quarterly and
                                                                        annually by an independent private external auditor acceptable to the WB.

                                                                    -   Through the Institutional Support Project, financed by the WB, the SWF is working on
-   The SWFs does not have an acceptable accounting system
                                                                        improving their accounting system to be able to properly record and report on all their
    and operations manual.
                                                                        transactions and prepare acceptable financial statements. In addition, to mitigate this risk, the
                                                                        SWF has developed internally an automated accounting system which is used to record and
                                                                        report transactions financed from the WB projects. The system is deemed adequate for this
                                                                        project. Also, the SWF has an operations manual acceptable to the WB.

                                                                   Resp: Recipient            Stage: Implementation        Due Date :                  Status: Ongoing



                                                                             23
Description :                                                     Risk Management:
- The SWF operating budget has shrunk from 2.3 percent to         - The MOF and the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MOLSA), took advantage of the
   .58 percent of the total SWF budget excluding payment              ECRP by formalizing the annual operating budget of the SWF which will cover project
   agency fee and the staff salary between 2008 and 2011 at a         operating costs. However, for proper operation of the SWF cash transfer program as whole,
   time when its operation has increased by more than 50              the Bank together with other donors will continue its dialogue with the MOPIC, MOF and
   percent.                                                           MOSAL on this issue especially for the recertification-related budget. The Bank will provide
                                                                      technical assistance through ISP to help SWF to prepare a proper operational budget plan to
                                                                      facilitate annual budget planning process.

                                                                  Resp: Both                 Stage: Implementation Due Date :                         Status: Ongoing
Description :                                                     Risk Management:
- The SWF has limited experience in managing IDA Projects.        - IDA will monitor closely through carrying out supervision mission, coordinated with other
                                                                      Bank interventions in the sector at least twice a year a year; the Sana’a Office will provide
                                                                      additional operational support, including a qualified FMS supervising the FM activities of the
                                                                      project.	

                                                                  Resp: Bank                   Stage: Implementation Due Date :                         Status: Ongoing
Governance                                                        Rating: Substantial
Description:                                                      Risk Management:
- Extremely vulnerable families may not be reached by the         - To avoid such risk as well as previous targeting issues, project beneficiaries have been
    program                                                           selected: (i) utilizing	data	of	poor	households	from	the	SWF	national	survey	(covering	1.6	
                                                                      million	households)	and	using proxy means testing for targeting. In addition, tri-party
-   Social and political pressures may arise and result in            committee of COCA, MOF and SWF conducted verification of all project beneficiaries
    excluding some regions from the project benefits during the       enrolled in the program. 	
    current period of political instability and widespread        - An independent qualified private external auditor acceptable to the WB will be engaged to
    poverty.                                                          audit the project’s accounts, quarterly and annually, according to TORs acceptable to the WB.
	                                                                     The TOR will include a special provision for the Auditor to conduct field visits to a sample of
Oversight and auditing function                                       the selected beneficiaries and post offices to validate the beneficiaries’ eligibility and their
                                                                      proper receipt of funds.
                                                                  - The SWF’s internal audit will audit the cash transfers which will be disbursed to the
                                                                      beneficiaries through the Post Office, and according to the SWF’s OM acceptable to the Bank.
                                                                  Resp: Recipient              Stage: Implementation Due Date :                         Status: Ongoing
Description:                                                      Risk Management:
No proper complaint handling mechanism is in place.               Both EU and the Bank are providing technical assistance to establish a complaint handling
                                                                  mechanism in the SWF.

                                                                  Resp: Recipient            Stage: Implementation       Due Date :                  Status: Ongoing




                                                                             24
Description:                                                      Risk Management:
The risk of less than full amount being paid to beneficiaries.    Post office and banks (instead of cashiers) will be used for cash payment.

                                                                  Resp: Recipient            Stage: Implementation      Due Date :                  Status: Ongoing
Project Risks
Design                                                            Rating: Moderate
Description:                                                      Risk Management:
- The project is being implemented using SWF existing cash        - The Bank will ensure that beneficiaries are indeed those selected through the approved PMT
    transfer system and utilizing the proxy means testing             mechanism.
    poverty targeting mechanism; there is no new design
    involved, and sufficient control is in place.

-   Cash transfers are done through the Country’s post office     -   The Post Office has proved its ability to manage large volume of cash payments through the
    and commercial banks.                                             SWF’s experience with their current program and also through the WB experience in other
                                                                      IDA-financed and administered projects. There are proper controls in place at the Post Office
                                                                      to ensure proper transfer of funds. The SWF provides the Post Office with the list of
                                                                      beneficiaries generated from their system in an electronic form (Microsoft Access or Excel)
                                                                      which is then imported into the Post Office internal system. The data imported into the Post
                                                                      Office system is compared with the data generated from the SWF and once approved, the data
                                                                      is locked into the Post Office system. The post office has access to view the names and
                                                                      generate and send reconciliation reports showing the contact information of the beneficiaries
                                                                      who received and did not receive the allocated payments. The post office reconciliation report
                                                                      will be in data form. This data once received by the SWF will be compared with the data in the
                                                                      SWF’s system. Also prior to disbursement the allocation department reviews the list in the post
                                                                      office to ensure the total number per area is consistent. The funds for the unpaid cases will be
                                                                      refunded to the project’s DA.

-   Eligibility of beneficiaries to receive cash payments - SWF   -   The beneficiaries under this project are newly added in 2011to the SWF programs, i.e. not
-   System used to identify, record, and maintain the list of         benefiting from the old score card based program. The SWF has developed oracle based
    eligible beneficiaries.                                           system for the purpose of recording and maintaining the list of all their beneficiaries. The SWF
                                                                      conducted an internal review of all their beneficiaries and ensured no duplication of benefits
                                                                      given to the beneficiaries. The system has the capacity to generate exception reports showing
                                                                      potential duplication of benefits by running queries to list duplicated beneficiary data (e.g.
                                                                      name, ID #). There is proper control of access to the system as access is limited to few
                                                                      individuals in the SWF.


                                                                  Resp: Both                 Stage: Implementation      Due Date :                  Status: Ongoing




                                                                            25
Social & Environmental                                               Rating: Low
Description:                                                         Risk Management: There is no negative environmental or social risk identified for the project.
No specific safeguard risks identified during preparation.
No environmental risks have been identified as the proposed
                                                                     Resp: N/A                  Stage:                      Due Date :                Status: N/A
project includes cash transfers to poor households.
Program & Donor                                                     Rating: Moderate
Description:                                                        Risk Management:
Although there is a good donor’s coordination, Donors have          The ECRP will support only new cases selected using the PMT. An independent qualified private
expressed concern about SWF targeting and cash amounts              external auditor acceptable to the World Bank will be engaged to audit the project’s accounts,
actually received by beneficiaries in rural and remote areas.       quarterly and annually, according to TORs acceptable to the World Bank.
                                                                    Resp: Recipient             Stage: Implementation Due Date :                       Status: O
Delivery Monitoring & Sustainability                                Rating: High
Description:                                                        Risk Management:
- Fiscal sustainability of this portion of the cash transfer        - While sustainability will depend to a large extent on the fiscal constraint, the GOY has shown
    program in view of the overall fiscal challenges the country        a strong commitment to sustaining and improving the SWF CT program.
    is facing is high.                                              - Through the ongoing ISP project, the Bank will contribute to fiscal sustainability of the overall
                                                                        cash transfer program of Yemen through improved targeting and efficiency. The government
-   Monitoring of cash transfer will be a challenge as the SWF          is expected to fund about 486,400 beneficiaries in 2014. The spending represents about one
    does not have a properly functioning M&E system in place.           percent of GDP. The share is expected to decline over the next year with growth picking up to
                                                                        about 0.8 percent.
                                                                    - The Bank will verify whether the SWF continues to meet the eligibility criteria for
                                                                        beneficiaries in the following two ways: (a) through reconciliation of data provided by the Post
                                                                        Office (in charge of cash payments to beneficiaries) with the SWF’s database; and (b)
                                                                        eligibility review of beneficiaries through the SWF Internal Audit Department and eventually a
                                                                        third party such as an NGO or other agencies. In parallel, SWF’s M&E department is getting
                                                                        technical assistance through EU and Bank’s ISP for strengthening its capacity.

                                                                     Resp: Both                 Stage:Implementation         Due Date :               Status: O
Overall	Risk	
Implementation Risk Rating: Substantial

Comments :

The overall risk rating for the project is Substantial because of the country context, as well as capacity and governance issues.




                                                                                26
             Annex 5: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
        REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT

80. The proposed project will mainly finance cash assistance grants to a subset of the about 0.5
million households added to the SWF list in 2011 through: (1) providing retroactive financing,
not exceeding 40 percent of the Grant amount, for eligible cash assistance grants paid from the
Government budget in 2012; and (2) financing eligible cash assistance grants paid in 2013.

81. Under the Bank’s policy (OP/BP 10.02, Financial Management), the Bank requires that for
each Bank-funded operation, the borrower/recipient maintain acceptable FM arrangements that
can provide reasonable assurance that the proceeds of the loan/grant are used for the purposes for
which the loan/grant was granted. Consistent with this requirement, one of the guiding principles
of OP 8.00, Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies, is the provision of appropriate oversight
arrangements, including corporate governance and fiduciary oversight, to ensure appropriate
scope, design, speed, and monitoring and supervision of rapid response operations.

82. An FM assessment was conducted with the objective of determining whether: (i) the SWF
has adequate FM arrangements to ensure project funds will be used for the purposes intended in
an efficient and economical way; (ii) the controls and processes at the SWF can be relied upon;
and (iii) the system in place is able to generate reliable and accurate project reports on a timely
basis.

83. The Assessment confirmed that SWF has adequate FM capacity to implement the
project. The SWF has successfully implemented a WB-administered and EU funded project,
(ESSNEP), which financed cash transfers to about 40,000 eligible poor households that were
identified through the SWF household survey and the PMT scoring. The SWF submitted all audit
reports.

Implementation Entity and Staffing

84. The SWF will be implementing the proposed project, including the financial management
and disbursement aspects (e.g., planning, budgeting, internal controls, disbursement, supervision
of the activities, and reporting on these activities to stakeholders).

85. The SWF is overseen by a board of directors, responsible for the overall policy of the Fund
and the Minister of the MOSAL is the chairman of the board. The main executive agency is the
SWF Head Office in Sana’a and it has 22 Branch Offices (one in each governorate) and 214
District Offices. The SWF Head Office is headed by its Managing Director who is also a
member and secretary of the SWF’s Board. The Head Office has eight departments and five units
dealing with all SWF affairs on the national level.

86. The Finance Department is managed by a Director General from the MOF who reports
directly to the Executive Manager and is also accountable to the Internal Auditor, the MOF, and
the Government’s Central Organization for Control and Audit (COCA). This department is
responsible for preparing the annual SWF Program budget, undertaking all procurement for the
SWF, and maintaining the SWF entities. As a result of the finance department low capacity and


                                                27
conflict of interest in its mandate (e.g., finance and procurement), the SWF retains an FM
Specialist who reports to the SWF’s Managing Director. The FM Consultant’s salary is financed
from the WB-financed project (Institutional Support Project). He will be responsible for
managing the FM and disbursement activities of the project.

87. In addition, the SWF has an Internal Audit Department (IAD) which is responsible for:
(i) conducting audits on the SWF CT Program as required by the Program Management and at
least on annual basis in accordance with COCA; (ii) performing audits for the SWF Branch
Offices; (iii) preparing all required documents for annual external audits; and (iv) reviewing and
investigating in case any irregularities are found. The department has 5 staff whose experience is
relevant to the proposed project. The IAD submits its audit reports to the SWF’s Managing
Director.

Accounting System & Internal Controls

88. The SWF has internally developed an automated accounting system which is deemed
adequate for this project. The accounting system is capable of recording project financial
transactions, including allocation of expenditures, disbursement categories and source of funds.

89. The SWF has developed an Operations Manual setting out the structure of the CT Program,
including the FM and disbursement arrangements, and controls over the use of the Post Office,
and these arrangements have been approved by the WB. The SWF’s FMS will prepare monthly
bank reconciliations. The FMS will prepare quarterly IFRs showing the source and use of funds
by component, expenditure category, governorate and number of beneficiaries. Additionally, the
IFRs will report the reconciliation of the DA, and a progress report detailing status on the
payment to the beneficiaries, reflecting the unpaid and remaining balance in the DA, and the
amount of paid and unpaid (returned) cash transfers to beneficiaries by Governorate. These
reports will be attached with the application requesting funds for the following quarters.

90. All payments will be done centrally by the SWF’s Head Office in Sana’a. Disbursement to
the beneficiaries from the SWF’s segregated DA will follow the Fund’s Operational Manual and
WB Disbursement Guidelines. Cash payments to beneficiaries will be done through Yemen’s
Post Office branches in the selected governorates and CAC and Alamal Banks. The Post Office
has proved its ability to manage a large volume of cash payments through the SWF’s experience
with their current program and also through the WB experience in other IDA-
financed/administered projects. There are controls in place at the Post Office to ensure proper
transfer of funds. The SWF provides the Post Office with the list of beneficiaries generated from
their system in an electronic form (Microsoft Access or Excel) which is then imported into the
Post Office internal system. The data imported into the Post Office system is compared with the
data generated from the SWF and once approved, the data is locked into the Post Office system.
The Post Office has access to view the names and generate and send reconciliation reports
showing the contact information of the beneficiaries who received and did not receive the
allocated payments. The post office reconciliation report will be in data form. This data once
received by the SWF will be compared with the data in the SWF’s system. Also prior to
disbursement, the allocation department reviews the list in the Post Office to ensure that the total
number per area is consistent. The project will have a DA in USD and a sub account in YER.



                                                28
The sub account will be used to transfer funds from the project’s DA to the sub-account for
payments to the Post Office, and uncollected funds will also be deposited (i.e., refunded from the
Post Office) into this sub-account. The funds for the unpaid cases will be refunded to the
project’s DA.

Flow of Funds and Disbursement Arrangements

91. The project funds will be channeled through the SWF and deposited into a separate
segregated USD DA in the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) to be opened and maintained by the
SWF, and under conditions acceptable to the WB. Advances and Reimbursement based
disbursement will be the main disbursement method. Requests for payments from the Grant
funds will be initiated through the use of the Bank’s WAs supported by IFRs and Post Office
Reconciliation Report and Bank statements. Disbursement to the beneficiaries from the SWF’s
DA will follow the SWF’s Operational Manuals and cash payments to beneficiaries will be done
through Yemen’s Post Office branches and the selected banks in the selected governorates. The
proceeds of the proposed project will be disbursed in accordance with the Bank's disbursements
guidelines as outlined in the Disbursement Letter. IFR based disbursement will be used under
this project.

92. Retroactive Financing: Under the ECRP, an amount not to exceed SDR 26.1 million may be
made from the Grant Proceeds for payments made prior to the signing date of the Financing
Agreement but on or after July 1, 2012 for eligible expenditures under Category 1 (Cash Benefits
under Component 1 of the Project) (See Table 5).

93. For requests for Reimbursement and for reporting eligible expenditures, the SWF will be
using the IFR in the form agreed upon during negotiations for eligible expenditures in connection
with Cash Benefits under Component 1 of the Project (Category 1) and Consultants' Services
(Category 2).

94. IFRs that will be submitted along Withdrawal Applications for disbursement will be
reviewed and approved by the Bank.

95. While category 1 for cash benefits is expected to be disbursed against reimbursement
requests for eligible expenditures pre-financed by the Government, the SWF will open and
maintain a separate DA with a ceiling of US$200,000 for Category 2 (Consultants’ Services for
the Project) (See Table 5).




                                               29
                         Table 5: Categories of Eligible Expenditures
                    Category              Amount of the          Percentage of
                                       Financing Allocated    Expenditures to be
                                       (expressed in SDR)          Financed
                                                              (inclusive of Taxes)
                (1) Cash benefits     64,970,000             100%
                under Part A of
                the Project

                (2) Consultants’      130,000                100%
                services for the
                Project

                TOTAL                 65,100,000
                AMOUNT


96. For the amounts expected to be paid through retroactive financing, the Government has
already paid the cash assistance grants from their budget so the SWF will request a
reimbursement of the eligible expenditures (up to 40 percent of the Grant amount). The
reimbursement amount will be deposited into the project’s DA which will then get transferred to
the MOF’s budget account. For amounts financed by the Government after project effectiveness,
the MOF will deposit their funds into the project’s DA, from which the SWF will make the
payments to eligible beneficiaries. The SWF will then request reimbursement of eligible funds to
be deposited into the project’s DA and similarly will get transferred to the MOF’s budget
account. Chart 2 below summarizes the flow of funds from the Grant and the Government to the
SWF’s DA and Post Office to finance the project’s eligible expenditures. Payment requests from
the DA for eligible expenditures will be approved by the SWF’s Director and Financial
Management Specialist and then the payment requests will be sent to the MOF for approval of
payment from the DA at CBY.

                                 Chart 2: SWF Flow of funds chart


                                                                    Government
                                    Grant Funds
                                                                      Budget



                    Eligible
                                                   USD DA – CBY
                  Expenditures




                                                Post
                                            Office/Banks




                                            Beneficiaries

                                                   30
97. Chart 3 below summarizes the flow of funds from the project’s DA. Payments from the
project’s DA will be through requests by the SWF to the MOF in accordance with the Project
Disbursement Letter.


            Chart 3: Illustrating process for requests of payments from the SWF’s DA



          Payment                   FM &                       MOF                  CBY
          Request                  Director                   approval             Payment




Process to ensure eligibility of households to receive cash payments

98. The SWF has developed an information system which records the list of all their
beneficiaries. The SWF, MOF and COCA have conducted an internal review of all new SWF
beneficiaries since 2011 to ensure that duplication of benefits is eliminated. The system has the
capacity to generate exception reports showing potential duplication of benefits by running
specific queries. The access to the SWF system is limited to a few staff members of the SWF and
is subject to tight controls. All payments are initiated at the central level by the SWF’s Head
Office in Sana’a. Disbursement to the beneficiaries follows the SWF’s Operational Manual. Cash
payments to beneficiaries are being made through Yemen’s Post Office branches in the selected
governorates. The Post Office has proven its ability to manage large volume of cash payments
based on its services delivered to the SWF and its beneficiaries. There are proper controls in
place at the Post Office to ensure transfer of funds. The SWF provides the Post Office with the
list of beneficiaries generated from their system in an electronic form (Microsoft Access or
Excel) which is then imported into the Post Office own IT system. The data imported into the
Post Office system are then compared with the data generated from the SWF and once approved,
the data are locked into the Post Office system. The Post Office has access to view the names
and generate and send reconciliation reports showing the contact information of the beneficiaries
who received and did not receive the allocated payments. The post office reconciliation report
will be in data form. This data received by the SWF will be compared with the data in the SWF’s
system. Also prior to disbursement, the list in the Post Office is reviewed by the SWF Allocation
department to ensure that the total number per area is consistent.

99. The disbursement from the WB is based on the Bank’s review of the satisfactory application
of the PMT confirming the eligibility of households to receive benefits. Prior to disbursement,
assurances satisfactory to the WB will be sought through an eligibility review that beneficiary
households were selected in accordance with the proxy means testing formula and are eligible to
receive cash benefits from the proposed project.

100. The Bank recommends that the SWF post the list of beneficiaries in each of the Post
Offices used to deliver the cash payments to the beneficiaries for as long as the project is
ongoing, with eventually a hotline for complaints if someone is informed to be eligible for cash
assistance but never received at a later date any funds from the project.


                                               31
101. The SWF’s Internal Audit Department will add the proposed project to its scope of work.
Internal Audit will be responsible for checking the list of proposed beneficiary households and
confirm eligibility including conducting regular visits to a sample of selected beneficiaries and
submit internal audit reports to the Managing Director. The SWF’s Department of Allocation is
responsible for following up on payments of beneficiaries. Also, the Project’s External Auditor’s
TOR will include a special provision for the Auditor to conduct two field visits to a sample of the
selected beneficiaries to validate the beneficiaries’ eligibility and proper receipt of funds.

Project Financial Reporting

102. Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) arrangement: IFRs will be prepared by the SWF and
submitted to the WB quarterly. IFRs will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the
end of the quarter. The IFRs will be audited by an independent external auditor acceptable to the
WB and the reports will consist of (a) source and uses of funds by Component and Expenditure
Category, (b) a reconciliation of the DA, and (c) cash transfers by governorate and number of
beneficiaries, a progress report detailing status of the payment to the beneficiaries, reflecting the
unpaid and remaining balance in the DA, and the amount of paid and unpaid (returned) cash
transfers to beneficiaries by Governorate.

External Audit
   o Entity: Separate Annual Entity Audited Financial Statements of SWF is required to be
      sent to the WB within six months from the end of the fiscal year.
   o Project: Separate Annual Audited Financial Statements of the project is required to be
     sent to the WB within six months from the end of the fiscal year.
          The Terms of Reference (TOR) for the external auditor and the required Project
           Financial Statements will be agreed by the WB.
          The Project’s External Auditor’s TOR will include a special provision for the Auditor
           to conduct field visits to a sample of the selected beneficiaries to validate the
           beneficiaries’ eligibility and their proper receipt of funds.
          The external auditor report (in English and Arabic) shall encompass all Project’s
           components and activities and shall be in accordance with internationally accepted
           auditing standards e.g., International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The audit report
           and opinion will cover the Project’s financial statements, reconciliation and use of the
           Designated Account (DA) and withdrawals based on Interim Financial Reports.
          The auditor is required to prepare a “management letter? identifying any
           observations, comments and deficiencies, in the system and controls, that the auditor
           considers pertinent, and shall provide recommendations for their improvements.

Corruption

103. Fraud and corruption may affect the project resources. The above fiduciary arrangements,
including the mitigating measures implemented by the SWF through the use of a Project Support
Team, reliance on the work of COCA and SWF’s Internal Audit Department, the use of the Post
Office to flow the funds to the beneficiaries, the use of SWF’s acceptable manuals and
procedures, tailored financial reporting and external audit arrangements, and the capacity
building activities implemented by the SWF are designed to mitigate these risks. The SWF will


                                                 32
contract an independent external auditor, with a TOR acceptable to the Bank, and with an
expanded scope to audit the compliance of the internal controls process and eligibility of
beneficiaries associated with cash transfers program.




                                           33
                            Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements
        REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT


A.     General

104. The GOY lunched a National Procurement Reform Agenda in 2006. The new
procurement law adopted in 2007 (Procurement Law No.23) reflects international best practices
in general. Furthermore, the revised executive regulations (the implementation arrangement for
Law No. 23) were issued by Cabinet decree in February 2009. A comprehensive National
Procurement Manual (NPM) to support GOY’s public procurement management at all levels has
been issues. The manual includes a national Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) for Goods,
Works and Consultant Services.

105. Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank’s "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 11, 2011;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
January 2011 and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. In addition, procurement
under the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the “Guidelines on Preventing
and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants?, known as the “2006 Anti-Corruption Guidelines?. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the
Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame will be agreed between the Recipient and the Bank in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan, approved on January 11, 2013, will be updated at least
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

B.     Procurement Arrangements

106. Selection of Consultants: Consultancy Services procured under this project will include
but not be limited to the following: (a) technical assistance (TA) to monitor and evaluate project
implementation and outcomes; and (b) recruitment of external auditors.

107. For firms, all contracts will be procured using Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS),
Fixed Budget Selection (FBS), or Least-Cost Selection (LCS) methods except for small contracts
of standard or routine nature estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent which may be
procured using Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualification (CQS). Single-Source Selection
(SSS) for hiring firms for services that meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the
Consultant’s Guidelines may be used on an exceptional basis, with prior agreement of IDA.
Shortlist of consulting firms for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. All individual consulting assignments will be on the
basis of comparison of qualifications or based on Sole-Source basis in accordance with Section
V of the Guidelines for Selection of Consultants.



                                               34
C.        Assessment of the agency’s capacity to implement procurement

108. The SWF has a Financial Department which is led by a Manager seconded from the
MOF. The Financial Department has a procurement unit, responsible for all non-high value
tenders, while the MOF takes responsibility for high-value contracts. The Department staff
responsible for procurement are relatively familiar with WB procurement procedures.

109. The overall project risk for procurement is Moderate as the proposed project is the third
IDA-financed project to be implemented through SWF and there are limited procurement
activities involved.

D.        Procurement Plan

110. The SWF with the assistance of the Bank team has developed the Project Procurement
Plan for the one year duration of the project reflecting the major project activities. The Plan
provides the basis for the procurement methods and prior review thresholds for each contract,
and will be updated annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
and improvements in institutional capacity.

E.        Frequency of Procurement Supervision

111. In addition to regular prior review of contract awards above thresholds indicated in the
Procurement Plan, IDA supervision missions will take place at least twice a year to carry out
post review of procurement actions.

F.        Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition

Consulting Services

List of consulting assignments with short-list of firms:

         1                 2            3              4           5              6              7

      Ref. No.     Description of   Estimated     Selection     Review       Expected       Comments
                    Assignment      Cost (US$)    Method       by Bank       Proposals
                                                                (Prior /    Submission
                                                                 Post)         Date
 QCBS-1.1-1       External          100,000      LQS          Prior         May 15,       For component 2
                  Auditor                                                   2013

The prior review thresholds are as follows:

     Consultant Services                         Above US$50,000 for individual and US$100,000 for
                                                 firms plus first three contracts, TORs, EOI, short-list,
                                                 and all single source selection

Post Review: All contracts not subject to prior review shall be subject to post review.




                                                       35
                  Annex 7: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements
        REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT


Project Oversight

112. The project will be implemented from March 1, 2013 to June 30, 2014 by the SWF. The
SWF was established in 1996 by Presidential Law No.31, and is governed by the revised
Presidential Law 39 (2008). Its Board of Directors, headed by the Minister of Social Affairs and
Labor, is composed of the Vice Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of Social Affairs and
Labor, Deputy Minister of Local Administration, Executive Director of the SWF (member and
secretary), Executive Managers of Social Security Network Programs, and community
representatives of private sector and civil society organizations. The Board meets at least every
three months, and reviews policy issues and approves important documents like annual plans,
budgets, and annual audits. Additionally, the Board will review project progress reports and take
appropriate actions in support of implementation. The SWF is headed by an Executive Director
who is responsible for day-to-day operations. As of January 2012, the SWF had 1,810 staff
operating through a three-level organizational structure: head office in Sana’a with 190 staff; 22
branch offices covering all Governorates in Yemen, with 762 staff; and 214 district offices (out
of 334 districts) with 816 staff.

Project Implementation and Coordination

113. The implementation will be carried out using an existing cash-transfer mechanism of the
SWF. This project provides cash assistance of up to US$20/month to around 400,000 households
for one year. The beneficiary households have been already identified through PMT scoring.
Payments are made four times a year; each payment corresponds to three payment months. The
payments will be made through the Yemen Post Office which has 251 branches and mobile units,
being the most widely spread financial agency in Yemen. The Post Office delivers the
checks/payments through its branches and mobile units. For payment to SWF beneficiaries, the
Post Office charges a 2 percent service fee, which will be funded through the Project.

114. While the SWF is responsible for implementing the project activities through
departments at its head office and branch offices, a PST which has already been established
through the ISP will provide coordination and fiduciary management support to complement the
skills not available in-house. The PST reports to the Executive Director, and administers the
project funds. The PST includes a Technical Coordinator, Financial Management Specialist,
Accountant, Procurement Specialist, Procurement Advisor, MIS Specialist and Executive
Secretary. The PST will report to the Executive Director, administer the Grant funds and support
the SWF’s efforts in implementing the project.

115. Specifically, the PST will: (i) coordinate between units, departments and branch offices
responsible for implementation, (ii) help the SWF in monitoring and evaluating the project
targets and results; (iii) handle procurement, financial, and disbursement management, including
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the project; (iv) ensure that an independent
audit of the project is carried out on a timely basis; (v) prepare the financial and procurement


                                               36
parts of the semi-annual Progress Report and consolidate with the technical part prepared by the
relevant departments of the SWF for submission to the SWF Board and IDA; (vi) act as the
liaison between the SWF and IDA; and (vii) ensure that all reporting requirements for IDA are
met according to the project’s legal agreement.

Targeting:
116. The Government’s response to protect the poorest categories of the population was to
double the benefit amount of the national cash transfer program (SWF) in 2008, and in 2011, the
program has expanded from about 1 million to 1.5 million households after applying poverty-
based targeting (proxy means test) based on the results of the 2008 national survey. The project
will target a subset of those 500,000 households brought in in 2011.

                                           Figure 1: Structure of SWF Head Office in Sana’a

  
                                                                                        SWF
                                                                                       B o ard



                                                                                     Ex ec utiv e
                                                                                     M an ag e r

                                                                                                     D e p. E xe cu tiv e
                                                                                                         M ana ger

                                                                                                                                            - Offi ce M a ng er
     Lega l            .M e dia          Inte rna l       Wom e n     B r anc h
                                                                                                                                            - Ad vis ory s ta ff
     A ffair s         and PR            C ontr ol        Af fair s   Re lat ion
                                                                                                                                            - Ad min sta ff
      Unit               Unit              Un it           Unit         U nit




                                     DG                 GD of           GD of                          GD                        GD                      GD               GD of
        D G Adm in                    of                                                               of                        of                      of           B e nefic iar y
                                                         IT            Planning
          A ffa ir s               Fina nc e                                                        P olic ies              A lloc a tion               M& E          De v elopm .




         Emp loye e               Acc ou n ting       P rog ra m-     P la nn in g                    S WF                  A lloc atio n            M on ito rin g   Aw ar en e ss
          a ffai rs                                      ming                                        Po li cie s                                                       B uild in g

                                  P ro cu rem .                       R e sea rch
           E ntitle-                                   N etw or k                                   Tec hn ic al              R e tu rn s            E va lua tio n     Tra in in g
                                  a nd Store s
                                                      A dm in istr.
            me n t                                                                                   A ffa i rs
                                                                      Tra ini ng
                                  A sse ts an d
          Gen e ral                                    Ma in te -                                                                                                          IG
                                    Ma in te-
          Se rvi ces                                   n an ce                                                                                                          P roj ec ts
                                     na n ce                          P roje ct
                                                                      D e ve lo pm .




Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements

117. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) will be undertaken by the SWF. Project activities will
be monitored on an ongoing basis to support achievement of the Project Development Objective.




                                                                                         37
Monitoring reports covering the key Project Outcome Indicators will be prepared according to
the schedule of frequency in Annex 2 (Results Framework and Monitoring).

(j) Monitoring. SWF’s M&E Department and governorate branch offices will monitor the cash
transfers as well as determine whether the ECRP CTs have been made to eligible beneficiaries.
CTs will be delivered through a tested intermediary (the Post Office and selected banks) on a
quarterly basis, with financial monitoring reports submitted to the SWF. The SWF will use
information from these reports to identify households not collecting benefits and will request a
follow-up by the nearest SWF Social Researcher or other appropriate Governorate/district staff
member to determine the cause of no withdrawal. These financial reports will also be monitored
to determine benefits received by female-headed households.

(iii) Evaluation. An Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report will be prepared after
project implementation is completed. As part of the ICR preparation, a sample-based beneficiary
survey will be conducted by an external consultant, to be financed by the project, to determine
the impact of the project on households’ welfare, e.g., food consumption patterns, household
debt, productive assets, etc. Satisfaction data (satisfaction with the SWF payment mechanism,
level of program information and support received from SWF) will be collected at the same time.




                                              38
              Annex 8: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members
       REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT

           Name                          Title                     Unit
Kamel Braham                Sr. Education Specialist     MNSHE
Wilfried Engelke            Sr. Economist                MNSED
Mira Hong                   Operations Officer           MNSSP
Moad Alrubaidi              Financial Management         MNAFM
                            Specialist
Saleh Qasem Al-Manary       Financial Management         MNAFM
                            Analyst
Jamal Abdulla Abdulaziz     Sr. Procurement Specialist   MNAPC
Samira Al-Harithi           Procurement Analyst          MNAPC
Nikolai Soubbotin           Sr. Counsel                  LEGAM
Hassine Hedda               Finance Officer              CTRLA
Alaa Mahmoud Hamed          Sr. Health Specialist        MNSHH
Ali Ahmed Al-Mudhwahi       Sr. Health Specialist        MNSHH
Lire Ersado                 Sr. Economist                MNSSP
Ali Ali Hassan Salamah      Program Assistant            MNCYE
Rania Atieh                 Consultant                   MNSHD
Amir Mokhtar Althibah       Temporary                    MNSED
Elena Gagieva-Petrova       Sr. Program Assistant        MNSHD
Emma Etori                  Program Assistant            MNSHE




                                         39
                       Annex 9: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
            REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT

A.         Targeting and Inclusion of the Poor and Vulnerable

118. Yemen is an overwhelmingly rural country with about 73 percent of the population living
in rural areas. Yemen suffers from chronic poverty where households in certain areas have
continuous difficulty in meeting acceptable levels of food consumption (i.e., those who do not
have enough resources for a sufficient basic needs basket). To ensure an effective safety net,
targeting methods must be designed to find and to protect the poorest households in the
population. The poor in Yemen are particularly concentrated in governorates with high
population density and very small land holdings. In addition to the small size of agricultural
holdings, the population suffers from inadequate access to services, largely due to the very rough
terrain and the dispersal of very small settlements.

119. To implement a CT program that covers the basic needs of the poorest, it is necessary to
identify who the poorest are and how to support them as potential beneficiaries. Given that full
information about the household welfare is not available on a regular basis for all of the
population in Yemen, and that data collection is costly and time-consuming, an alternative way
to identify the poor population has been implemented by the SWF since 2011. The aim of such
approach is to predict the household welfare (proxy means) based on a number of easy-to-verify
variables such as gender of the head of household, number of children in the household, type of
house construction material, type of water connection, etc.

Proxy Means Test (PMT)

Selection and Development of the PMT as the SWF Targeting Method15

120. The SWF newly introduced targeting method, the PMT, is being used in many countries for
targeting their cash assistance programs, either conditional cash transfers linked to human capital
accumulation or unconditional cash transfers, to the poorest of the poor households. The PMT
method was chosen to improve pro-poor targeting based on specific features which make this
method most suitable for the Yemeni context (i.e., where household income is based on a large
share of non-verifiable sources of income (informal sector and own production)). In the PMT
method, observable variables such as individual/household characteristics and household
ownership of durable goods (known as an asset index) are collected and a series of “weights?
applied to predict household welfare. The weights are derived from the standard HBS
information on household consumption and household characteristics. Statistical models are
developed and applied to applicant data to predict household welfare and rank
applicants/beneficiaries according to income relative to the regional poverty line.




     15
          Project Note. Phillippe Leite, Economist, Social Protection & Labor (Safety nets team). The World Bank, October 2009.




                                                              40
121. The proposed PMT weights applied to SWF applicant/beneficiary data are presented in the
Table 5 below:

       Table 5: Proposed PMT Weights Applied to SWF Applicant/Beneficiary Data

Geographical characteristics                Characteristics of the head
    Urban Area                  0.062          Gender: male                             0.043
Governorate                                    Age                                      0.003
    Ibb                          0.000         read and write: yes                      0.067
    Abyan                       -0.184         Primary education: yes                   0.109
    Sana'a city                  0.107         Secondary education: yes                 0.169
    Al-baida                    -0.283         Married: yes                            -0.064
    Taiz                        -0.026
    Al-jawf                     -0.102      Housing Characteristics
    Hajja                        0.067         Floor type: mud                         -0.244
    Al-hodeida                  -0.022         Floor type: flagstone/cement            -0.165
    Hadramout                   -0.120         House type: Luxury apartment/vila        0.082
    Dhamar                       0.191         Fuel: Gas                                0.024
    Shabwah                     -0.163         Water system                             0.057
    Sa'adah                      0.160         Household size                          -0.063
    Sana'a region                0.033         Number of members 6-25
    Aden                        0.039                      attending school            -0.012
    Laheg                       -0.229         Number of members 6-25
    Mareb                        0.026                    that attend school           0.030
    Al-mahweet                  -0.027         Number of members 6-25
    Al-maharh                    0.417               that never attended school        -0.019
    Amran                       -0.298      Family property
    Al-dhale                    -0.029         Fixed/Mobile telephone                  0.234
    Remah                        0.104         TV                                      0.095
                                               Washing Machine                         0.071
                                               Sewing machine                          0.032
                                               Taxi Bus                                0.302
                                               House for rent                          0.130
                                               Own agricultural Plot                    0.098
                                            Constant                                   11.550


Testing of the PMT Method for Accuracy and Improved Targeting

122. The PMT ranks SWF applicants and existing beneficiaries according to the following
categories:

   a. A&B groups – income below the regional poverty line;
   b. C group – income close to the regional poverty line. At risk of becoming poor;



                                             41
   c. D group – income approximately 25 – 50 percent above regional poverty line. Subject to
      income risks;
   d. E and F groups – income substantially above (+55 percent) regional poverty line. Should
      not be included to receive CTs.

123. In a series of micro-simulations on existing SWF beneficiary and survey data from 2008,
the PMT targeting accuracy in increasing the coverage of the poor was compared to the previous
Score Card targeting method used by SWF. The SWF 2008 survey included income level
information as well as PMT/Score Card indicator data, allowing comparison of actual income
reported with the PMT and Score Card scores for each applicant.

   a) The simulations showed that using the Score Card targeting method would extend
      coverage to only 8.4 percent of the population and reach only 10.8 percent of the lowest
      HBS decile (i.e., the poorest 10 percent).
   b) By applying the PMT weights, the coverage for Group A remained approximately the
      same (9 percent), but reach was extended to cover 26.9 percent of the poorest 10 percent.
   c) By including Group A&B data in the simulation, 35 percent of the Yemeni population
      would be covered and the program would reach 77.5 percent of the poorest 10 percent.
   d) In considering budget allocation to the extreme poor, the Score Card method was found
      to reach approximately 19 percent of the poorest, while the PMT Group A method
      reached approximately 50 percent of the poorest.

124. These results suggest higher targeting errors (inclusion and exclusion errors) under the
Score Card targeting method, leading to the recommendation that SWF use the PMT method to
increase the targeting accuracy of the program to include poor and vulnerable households.

Process of beneficiary selection and enrollment – reaching out to the poor

125. Reaching the ultra-poor is a challenge: they are often widely dispersed in small settlements,
have no means of communication with authorities and lack basic skills (i.e., literacy, numeracy,
etc.) and resources. Multi-pronged methods such as surveys, community consultations, CSO
contacts, SWF staff knowledge, knowledge of other program staff, etc., must be utilized to
identify them. The SWF process of beneficiary selection and enrollment is carried out in the
following steps:

   a) Identification - Obtain a list of potential beneficiaries developed from community sources
      as well as from new applicant lists. Community committees/leaders can help to identify
      and inform households that they can apply to the CT program. Community leaders or
      social workers at the time of application inform households concerning the program
      rights, obligations and rules via an orientation meeting.
   b) Registration – Register and collect survey data/information on potential beneficiaries.
      Registration can also be open to people from the community not previously identified,
      but still deemed to be poor.
   c) Selection - The selection of potential beneficiaries is made using a proxy means testing
      approach based on the information collected from each household registered for the
      program. The PMT formula is designed to capture one dimension of the economic status



                                               42
        of the household, i.e., the economic welfare of the household. The PMT represents the
        “predicted (potential) household per capita expenditure? according to household
        characteristics. The final list of selected applicants can be verified by the community or
        by community leaders during consultations.
     d) Enrollment – beneficiaries are enrolled in the program (after selection of potential
        beneficiaries based on the previous steps) to receive a certain amount of cash. As part of
        the enrolment process, families receive information about the entitlements of the Program
        and payment method, and are provided with identity cards.

SWF beneficiaries targeted by the ECRP

126. The proposed ECRP will support cash transfers to households assessed using the PMT and
identified as having an estimated income below 155 percent of the regional poverty line. These
are households which are considered as very poor, poor, or at risk to become poor.

B.    Gender Considerations – Inclusion of Female Household Members

127. The ISN recognizes that women, who are already severely disadvantaged in Yemen, have
suffered disproportionately as a result of the crisis. Preliminary figures from 2011 indicate
decreased access to basic and social services and economic opportunities, as well as high levels
of gender-based violence as a result of the unrest. These effects have compounded the severe
gender imbalances that already existed. For six consecutive years, Yemen has ranked last in the
2011 Global Gender Gap Index. While there have been gains over the years, women’s inclusion
in development remains an acute challenge. Girls are still much less likely than boys to complete
basic education, and their primary and secondary school completion rates are well below those in
other countries in the MENA region. Yemen has the highest fertility rate in the region at 5.2
births per woman in 2008, which corresponds to a low contraceptive prevalence rate at 28
percent in 2006. Early marriage is high at 50 percent. Yemen’s poor record on gender equality in
human development outcomes is accompanied by stark disparities in economic and civic
participation. Women’s labor force participation is among the lowest in the world at 21 percent,
and only 11 percent of micro and small enterprises (MSEs) are owned by women.

128. Since SWF cash transfers go to the head of the household and most household heads are
men, it will be important to assess if this determines how money is spent. The ISP is assisting
the SWF in assessing male/female spending patterns and establishing methodologies for
effectively communicating important messages (e.g., nutrition) to both men and women. The
results of the analysis will be utilized to direct interventions and communication messages to
men and women to influence the household spending patterns towards human capital benefits. A
recent survey by OXFAM in the Hodeida governorate found that women were empowered as
decision-makers through the cash transfer as they are the ones who determine “what food were
brought home, often choosing to buy vegetables, medicine or livestock needs, in addition to the
purchase of staple goods?.

C.      Program Transparency – Community Consultation and Information Disclosure

129. Successful cash transfer programs build broad credibility and accountability among
beneficiaries and other stakeholders. SWF needs to establish and apply clear and transparent


                                                43
rules on beneficiary selection criteria, established benefit levels, rights and obligations of
beneficiaries, grievance and complaint systems. The credibility of the program also rests on
SWF’s ability to keep an ongoing communication with, and receive feedback from, participating
households. The role of community members in identifying poor households not yet receiving
benefits, verifying that those receiving benefits are deserving, and acting as a “check and
balance? mechanism concerning falsification of information will be strengthened through pilot
activities.

130. The project will benefit from ISP activities to support a wide participation of stakeholders
such as local CSOs, NGOs, agencies, training institutions, government officials and government
offices. Individuals and community groups are involved in the basic education, numeracy and
nutrition information/training sessions offered through the SWF Beneficiary Development
Program. It is expected that sessions of this nature will build human capital of the participating
households, as well as promoting awareness and increasing the demand for health and nutritional
services from other providers. The ISP is assisting the SWF to strengthen CSO/NGO
partnerships to effectively engage in policy dialogue concerning poverty alleviation and
household needs, and is promoting transparency through real stakeholder engagement at every
stage since the stakeholders as service providers are an integral part of the project design. The
SWF has established a CSO Coordination Unit in order to maximize resources and build social
accountability for SWF practices and procedures at the household level.




                                               44
                          Annex 10: Economic and Financial Analysis
        REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT

131. There is a strong economic and poverty rationale for investing in the SWF cash transfer
program. A high level of poverty is one of the main challenges facing Yemen and its people, and
it is crucial to support the poorest and most vulnerable in the country, particularly at times of
crisis, to address inequality and achieve stability in the country.

132. Background and Global Experience on CT programs. Over the last decade, the number
of CT programs in the world has expanded substantially. The largest CT programs are in Latin
America countries, such as Brazil, Mexico and Argentina, covering millions of households.
However, recently, both Africa and Asia have initiated CT pilots in several countries, such as
Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, Bangladesh and Pakistan. Most CT programs have two main
objectives: (a) to provide poor households with a minimum consumption level and reduce
current poverty; and (b) to break the inter-generational transmission of poverty by imposing
conditions to the transfers on beneficiary compliance with key human capital investments. Well-
designed CT programs can cost effectively reach the poorest and most deserving households and,
where these are present, replace badly targeted and inefficient subsidies. There is mounting
evidence that CT programs are an efficient way of redistributing income to the poor, thereby
raising their consumption levels. Moreover, robust impact evaluations of well-designed CT
programs are starting to provide sound evidence of positive impacts on school enrolment and
attendance rates. The evidence on health outcome improvements is currently less clear, but some
recent studies demonstrate that CT programs have resulted in increased total food consumption
and improved child growth.

133. Although direct cash transfers imply an opportunity cost for the Government in terms of
alternative investments, there is growing evidence that they can be equitable and efficient.
Fiszbein and Shady (2008) argue that among the evaluated programs there is a significant impact
on the poverty gap and the poverty severity index, but that headcount poverty is only affected in
programs for which transfers are large enough. Even if a large share of the transfers are used to
cover food expenditure and costs related to sending children to school, in some cases the cash
transfers are used for savings or investments in productive assets. Savings allow households to
protect themselves from negative shocks that would otherwise have a long-term negative impact
on a household’s welfare and productive assets that might in future generate income for the
household.

134. Economic Rationale for Investing in the Program. In a well-targeted CT program, the
beneficiary households will be the poorest among the overall population. The high level of
poverty is one of the main challenges facing Yemen and its people and it has become evident
that it is crucial to support the poorest and most vulnerable in the country to not only reach
expected growth, but to sustain it. Moreover, the Social Protection (SP) strategy for Yemen
includes the SWF’s cash transfer program as one of the key components.

135. The number of poor in Yemen has dramatically risen during the crisis. Poverty, which
was already increasing prior to the crisis, is estimated to have risen further from 42 percent of the
population in 2009 to 54.5 percent in 2012. Poverty is particularly high in rural areas, which are


                                                 45
home to about 73 percent of the population and 84 percent of the poor. This provides an added
rationale for supporting the cash transfer program and improving its targeting.

136. Adequate education and good health are key elements in reducing poverty in Yemen.
Both offer high rates of return and promote future economic development. Since cash transfer
programs are capable of increasing rates of school enrollment and improving health outcomes
(through better nutrition and increased affordability of health services), the SWF can play an
important role in reducing poverty through this mechanism. In addition, the ECRP involves a
commitment from the government to allocate sufficient resources to respond urgent needs to and
sustain delivery of services in education and health.

137. The importance of targeting in order to achieve maximum benefits. Cost-effective
cash transfer programs channel most program resources to their intended target group. They also
economize the administrative resources required to implement the program in two ways. First, at
the level of the whole safety net system, they avoid fragmentation and the subsequent need to
develop administrative systems without realizing economies of scale. Second, they run
efficiently with the minimum resources required to achieve the desired impact, but with
sufficient resources to carry out all program functions well. The ECRP support is expected to
reach more households in extreme poverty as a result of the new PMT method that has been
implemented in 2012. The 486,400 households expected to benefit from the ECRP have been
selected using the newly implemented PMT.

138. Expected benefits of the program include: Higher consumption, reduced rates of
mortality, morbidity and malnutrition and increased school enrollment and attendance.
Three of the main benefits of SWF’s cash transfer program are likely to be: (i) increased school
enrolment and attendance for children; and (ii) reduced rates of mortality, morbidity and
malnutrition among 0 to 5 year old children; and (iii) increased consumption among beneficiary
households. Improvements in the health and education outcomes of children and the wider
family are expected due to the income effects of the transfer (e.g., increased food consumption,
dietary diversity). In addition to the direct welfare benefits arising from improved health status,
gains can also be expected through increased schooling levels, improved cognitive achievement
as well as productivity, earnings and income for adults. Both adequate education and good
health are key elements in reducing poverty in Yemen.

139. Poverty effects. Reaching the program objectives would contribute to a greater reduction
in poverty and inequality and mitigate their intergenerational transmission. The impact of the
cash transfer program on poverty will depend very much on the extent to which the program is
successful at targeting the poorest households. In this sense, using the PMT as opposed to the
previous categorical targeting method will enhance the impact of the cash transfer program on
poverty rates. By receiving regular cash transfers, households are likely to increase their food
intake, thereby resulting in less food insecurity and the maintenance of productive assets. This is
expected to have a positive effect on consumption smoothing. This will reduce both income
poverty and income inequality due to the redistributive effect of targeting the transfer to the
poorest families within the households.




                                                46
                        Annex 11: Documents in Project Files
    REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT


   SWF Law No. 39, 2008

   SWF By-law for Law No. 39, 2010

   Social Welfare Fund Institutional Support Project Appraisal Document, Report No.
    53355-YE, May 7, 2010

   Joint Social and Economic Assessment (2012)

   Interim Strategy Note, World Bank (2012)

   The Transitional Program for Stabilization & Development 2012-2014




                                          47
                                     Annex 12: Statement of Loans and Grants
           REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT

                                                                                                                    Difference Between
                                                                                                                    Expected and Actual

                                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions                    Disbursements a/

Project                                                  Fiscal                                                                      Frm
          Project Name                                            IBRD     IDA    GRANT      Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig.
ID                                                       Year                                                                       Rev'd

          RY TAIZ MUNICIPAL DEV & FLOOD
P070092   PROTEC                                         2002             100.2                  0.4      24.3          -37.1         16.8
P110733   RY Higher Education Quality Improvement        2010              13.0                           10.7            1.9
P089259   RY Rainfed Agriculture and Livestock           2007              20.0                            6.8            5.5            0.3
P089761   RY Sec. Educ. Dev. and Girls Access            2008              20.0                           16.3           13.6            0.0
P117608   RY SWF Institutional Support Project           2010              10.0                            9.6            2.2
P085231   RY- Second Rural Access Project                2006              80.0                           42.4            2.4         22.8
P086886   RY-Fisheries Resource Mgt & Conservation       2006              25.0                  2.7       5.7            6.7            5.2
P094755   RY-Health & Population                         2011              35.0                           30.7           -0.6
P107050   RY-Integrated Urban Development                2010              22.0                           20.9           14.0
P122594   RY-Labor Intensive Public Works Project        2012              61.0                           58.4            3.9
P088435   RY-Port Cities Development II                  2010              35.0                           34.4           21.9
P086865   RY-Power Sector                                2006              50.0                           46.2           42.4         24.3
P117363   RY-Public Finance Modernization Project        2011              12.0                            8.9
P092211   RY-Rural Energy Access Project                 2009              25.0                           26.1           19.9         11.1
P113102   RY-Schistosomiasis Control Project             2010              25.0                           14.4           -0.8
P107037   RY-WATER SECTOR SUPPORT                        2009              90.0                           70.3           59.3         15.5
P103922   RY:GEF Agrobiodiversity and Adaptation         2010                          4.0                 3.4            0.8
P117949   RY:Social Fund for Development IV              2010              60.0                           27.9            8.3
                                                 Total            0.00    683.2        4.0       3.0     457.4          161.4         95.9
                                                                                                                 Data as of January 17, 2013




                                                                    48
                                                        COUNTRY
                                                 STATEMENT OF IFC’s
                                                Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                 In Millions of US Dollars

                                                       Committed                                              Disbursed Outstanding

FY                                                     **Quasi                  Partici                                **Quasi              Partici
Approval       Company            Loan     Equity       Equity     *GT/RM         pant           Loan       Equity      Equity     *GT/RM     pant
2003           Ahlia Water         1.36          0           0            0          0            1.36          0              0       0         0
2008           Al-Mawarid           3.0          0           0            0          0             3.0          0              0       0         0
2007/2008      AYCC                66.2          0           0            0      46.44            66.2          0              0       0     46.44
              S Y Healthcare      12.63          0           0            0          0           12.63          0              0       0         0
               Marib Agri             0          0           0            0          0       0      0           0              0       0         0
               Yemen
               Battery                0          0           0            0          0       0      0           0              0       0         0
       Total Portfolio:           83.19          0           0            0      46.44           83.19          0              0       0     46.44


* Denotes Guarantee and Risk Management Products.
** Quasi Equity includes both loan and equity types.




                                                                              Approvals Pending Commitment
                 FY Approval     Company                                 Loan        Equity         Quasi            Partic.




                                       Total pending commitment:         0.00             0.00       0.00             0.00




                                                                    49
               Annex 13: Country at a Glance
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT




                            50
51
                                                                                                           46ºE                                         48ºE                                               50ºE                                  52ºE                                         54ºE

                    REPUBLI C O F                                                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information


                      Y EM E N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20ºN
                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                 20ºN

                             GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                   REP. OF                                                         SAUDI                          ARABIA
                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                      YEMEN
                             RIVERS

                             MAIN ROADS

                             GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18ºN
                  42ºE               To Abha                44ºE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sanaw                                                To Thamarit

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Habarut
                                                                                                                                                                                               Thamud
                                                    SAADAH                                                                                                                                                                                     Mah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rat                             To Mirbat
                                                          Saadah                                                                                                               n                                                                               Mt
                                                                                                                                                                          hu                                                      AL-                                  ns.




                                                                                                                                                                     ak
                                                                                                                                                                   di M
                                                                                        AL-JOWF                                                                 Wa                                                             M A H R AT
                                                                                                                                                      Zamakh
                                                                                                                                                                          HADRAMOUT                                                                                      Damqawt
                             Maydi                        ¸ -
                                                          Huth                                                                                                                                                                           adi Al Jiz
                                                                                                                                                            t                                                                           W
                                                                                 Al Hazm                                                              ser                                                                                                     Al Ghaydah
           16ºN                      HAJJAH AMRAN                        Wad                                                                 n   De                                                Wad
                                                                                                                                                                                                       i   Had
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mar’ayt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           16ºN
                                                                                                                                         tay
                                                                            i   Jaw                                                                                                                              ram
                                                                                                                                   b'a
                                                                                   f                                                                                                   Al Ghuraf                                                          Nishtun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ou
                    Al Luhayyah                Hajjah                                                                         Sa                                                                                       t
                                                               Amran                                                t   as                                           Hawra
                                                                                       MARIB                    mla
                             Salif      Al Mahwit                                               Marib      Ra              Shabwah
              AL-                                                    SANAA                                                                                                                                 t                                    Qishn

           MAHWIT                                           SANA'A                                                                                                                                     o u
                                                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                 S H A B WA                                                                m                                        Sayhut
                                                                                                                                                                                       r a
           Re




                     Al Hodeidah                Al Gabain
                                                           DHAMAR            Harib
                                                                                                           Nuqub                                                                   d
                         HODEIDAH
                              DAH                                                                                                                                              a                     Shihr
              d




                                                                  (3199 m)                                         Nisab      Ataq                                        H
                                                 RAIMH Dhamar         Rida                                                                                                                Al Mukalla
                                                                       AL-BEIDA
                    Se




                                                 Wad Zabid
                                                    i
                                                            I B B AL-                                                                   Al Huwaymi
                         a




           14ºN                                                               Al Beida                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14ºN
                                                            Ibb         DHALE'E
                                                                   (3227 m)                                                                                     Bir Ali
                                                                                Al Dhale'e
                                                        Taiz                                        A B YA N
                                                                                       W
                                                                                        ad




                                                                                          B
                                                                                          i




                                                                                                                             Ahwar
                                                    TA I Z
                                                                                          ana




                                     Mocha
                                                                                                     Shaqra
                                                                  At Turbah
              ERITREA                                                    Lahej                  Zinjibar                                                                  Gulf                         of                    Ade n
                                               At
                                           Turbah       LAHEJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Qadub
                                                                                       Aden                                                                                                                                                                                   Qalansiyah
                                                                       ADEN
           ETH.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Socotra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'Abd al Kuri         Samha                                     )
                         DJIBOUTI                                                                           0           50        100      150 Kilometers                                                                                                                             Darsa                       TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33513R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
           12ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (HA         The Brothers N                   OR              12ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAMO T GOVER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               U
MAY 2009




                                                                                                            0                50              100 Miles
             42ºE                                        44ºE                                           46ºE                                            48ºE                                                 50ºE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOMALIA                    52ºE                                           54ºE
