                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00003148



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H8270)



                                     ON A

                                 GRANT
                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 65.1 MILLION
                      (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                    FOR AN

                  EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT


                                January 29, 2015




Social Protection and Labor
Egypt, Yemen, Djibouti Country Management Unit
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2014)

                        Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial

                        YER 214.90 = US$1
                          US$0.65 = SDR 1

                              FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1 – June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BP      Bank Procedures
COCA    Central Organization for Control and Audit
ECRP    Emergency Crisis Recovery Project
EU      European Union
FM      Financial management
FY      Fiscal year
GDP     Gross domestic product
GOY     Government of Yemen
GTZ     Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit
IAD     Internal Audit Department
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Agency
IEG     Independent Evaluation Group
ILO     International Labor Organization
IsDB    Islamic Development Bank
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
ISP     Institutional Support Project
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
JSEA    Joint Social and Economic Assessment
M&E     Monitoring and evaluation
MENA    Middle East and North Africa Region
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOLSA   Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
MOPIC   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
NGO     Nongovernmental organization
OP      Operational Policy
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project development objective
PMT     Proxy means test
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SWF     Social Welfare Fund
TPSD     Transition Plan for Stabilization and Development
UCT      Unconditional cash transfer
UN       United Nations
UNICEF   UN Children’s Fund
WFP      (United Nations) World Food Program
YER      Yemeni Rial




          Acting Vice President:        Gerard Byam
          Acting Country Director:      Poonam Gupta
          Practice Manager:             Yasser El Gammal
          Project Team Leader:          Lire Ersado
          ICR Team Leader:              Lire Ersado
          ICR Author                    Iqbal Kaur
                                                  CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design ......................................... 1
   1.1 Context at Appraisal ............................................................................................. 1
   1.2 Government’s Response ....................................................................................... 2
   1.3 Rationale for World Bank Assistance ................................................................... 3
   1.4 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved) ...... 4
   1.5 Expected Outcomes .............................................................................................. 4
   1.6 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
       and Reasons/Justification ...................................................................................... 4
   1.7 Main Beneficiaries ................................................................................................ 4
   1.8 Original Components (as approved) ..................................................................... 4
   1.9 Revised Components ............................................................................................ 5
   1.10 Other Significant Changes .................................................................................. 5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................... 5
   2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry ................................................ 5
   2.2 Risk Assessment ................................................................................................... 6
   2.3 Adequacy of Participatory Processes .................................................................... 8
   2.4 Implementation ..................................................................................................... 8
   2.5 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization ................. 10
   2.6 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance ................................................................. 10
   2.7 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase .............................................................. 11
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................ 12
   3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation: Rating – “Satisfactory”12
   3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives .............................................. 15
   3.3 Efficiency in Targeting ....................................................................................... 16
   3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ............................................................ 16
   3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts ......................................... 16
   3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ... 17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome: Rating - “Substantial” ............. 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................ 19
   5.1 Bank Performance ............................................................................................... 19
   5.2 Borrower Performance ........................................................................................ 21
6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................... 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Components............................................................................. 27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.............................................................. 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..... 29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................ 31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................. 32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............. 33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............... 35
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................... 36
MAP ............................................................................................................................. 37
                                      ICR Data Sheet

                                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                 EMERGENCY CRISIS RECOVERY PROJECT (ECRP)

A. Basic Information
                                                                           Emergency Crisis
Country:                Yemen, Republic of       Project Name:
                                                                           Recovery Project
Project ID:             P133811                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H8270
ICR Date:               12/15/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:
                                                                           YEMEN
Original Total
                        XDR 65.10M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 65.06M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 65.10M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Social Welfare Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/28/2012      Effectiveness:
Appraisal:            10/07/2012      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             02/14/2013      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2014       06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings            Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Satisfactory         Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                     Quality at Entry
Project at any time          No                                              None
                                                     (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                                10                    10
Health                                                                  10                    10
Other social services                                                   79                    79
Public administration- Other social services                             1                     1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                            10                    10
Education for all                                                       10                    10
Nutrition and food security                                             30                    30
Social safety nets                                                      50                    50

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Acting Vice President:       Gerard Byam                          Inger Andersen
Country Director:            Poonam Gupta                         Hartwig Schafer
Practice                     Yasser Aabdel-Aleem Awny El-         Yasser Aabdel-Aleem Awny El-
Manager/Manager:             Gammal                               Gammal
Project Team Leader:         Lire Ersado                          Lire Ersado
ICR Team Leader:             Lire Ersado
ICR Primary Author:          Iqbal Kaur
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objective of the proposed Emergency Crisis Recovery Project (ECRP) is to assist the
Recipient in mitigating the impact of the 2011 crisis by providing cash benefits to eligible
poor households.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

PDO not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                           Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                             approval           Target        Completion or
                                            documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of households receiving cash transfers through the project.
Value
quantitative or 0.00                      400,000.00                          393,743.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2011                  06/30/2014                          06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement rate - 98%.
achievement)
                Number of direct project beneficiaries (Number in millions) of which female
Indicator 2 :
                (percentage)
Value
quantitative or 0.00                      2.40 (50%)                          2.35 (52%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2011                  06/30/2014                          06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement rate for direct beneficiaries - 98%, for the share of females - 75%.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                               Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Amount of grant transferred to beneficiaries ($US million)
Value
(quantitative   0.00                      99.80                               85.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2011                  06/30/2014                          06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement rate - 85.2%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Timely submission of financial statements for reimbursement of cash transfers
                                         Timely submission                 All the financial
                                         of quarterly                      statement for
Value
                                         financial                         reimbursement of
(quantitative   N/A
                                         statements for                    cash transfers were
or Qualitative)
                                         reimbursement of                  submitted with the
                                         cash transfers                    final WA.
Date achieved 01/31/2011                 06/30/2014                        06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Timely submission of Monitoring Reports
                                                                           Regular progress
Value                                    Timely submission                 reports were
(quantitative   N/A                      of quarterly                      received from the
or Qualitative)                          monitoring reports                Project Support
                                                                           Team.
Date achieved 01/31/2011                 06/30/2014                        06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     07/20/2013          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   37.12
  2     03/29/2014          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   85.82
  3     07/03/2014          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   85.96


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

    1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 2011, Yemen experienced mass protests, violent clashes, and armed conflicts that
culminated in a simultaneous political, social, and economic crisis exacerbating an
already difficult country environment. The conflict had emerged from demands for
better governance and economic opportunities, and a stronger voice for citizens. Election
of a new President and formation of a transitional government took place in response to
these demands.

Causing significant disruptions in the supply and production chains, the conflict led
to a significant decline in economic activity, and increase in poverty and higher
unemployment. GDP contracted by 10.5 percent in 2011 and to an estimated 1.9 percent
in 2012 1 leading to higher unemployment. Unofficial estimates cite up to one million
workers may have lost their jobs in 2011.

Poverty, which was already rising prior to the crisis, increased further from 42
percent of the population in 2009 to 54.5 percent in 20122. Nearly half of the population
lives below the poverty line of US$2 a day. Poverty is particularly high in rural areas, which
are home to about 73 percent of the population and 84 percent of the poor. Urban poverty
is concentrated primarily in Sana’a and Aden and is particularly extreme in Hodeidah, Taiz,
and Mukalla. An estimated 807,000 people are now considered most vulnerable due to
current and previous conflicts in Yemen including children who have been directly
involved in or affected by the infighting and violence, as well as 213,000 vulnerable
returnees and war-affected persons in the north, 203,900 refugees and asylum seekers and
approximately 150,000 displaced people in the south

While the Yemeni population had suffered from a cycle of food price increases, floods,
and political instability since 2008, the 2011 crisis triggered additional and
unbearable price hikes. The repeated sabotaging of the oil pipelines and continued road
insecurity led to a decrease in crude oil production by about 40 percent in 2011 and a
similar decline in 2012. Public water supplies, electricity, and cooking fuel became scarce
and sharply high-priced due to interrupted supplies. In urban areas and neighborhoods
where armed conflict occurred, such as in Sana’a and Taiz, families had to shoulder the
costs of moving to safer locations, either in other neighborhoods or in their home villages
and towns.
Yemen remains one of the ten most food-insecure countries in the world and the most
food-insecure country in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Region .


1 Other estimates might deviate from the forecasted growth depending on the assessment of the transition
dynamic in Yemen. Overall, growth forecasts remain subjected to larger errors than usual during the
transition period.
2
  Joint Social and Economic Assessment, EU, IsDB, UN and World Bank, 2012.



                                                    1
According to the United Nations World Food Program (WFP), approximately 45 percent
(10 million) of the Yemeni population was food insecure in March 2012, a significant
increase from nearly 32 percent in 2009.3 Nearly one million children under five years of
age are acutely malnourished, with 61 percent of all children under five malnourished,
compared to 58 percent in 2006. About two-thirds of very young Yemeni children are
stunted, and severe (life-threatening) stunting affects one-third of all children in the
country. Yemen is highly reliant on food imports, which account for 81 percent of food
consumption. As a result, the country is particularly vulnerable to external food price
shocks. 4 With the average Yemeni daily nutritional intake of only 300 calories above
hunger, the rise in domestic prices led to food insecurity among many Yemenis.

At the same time, social service delivery, particularly in education and health, was
dramatically affected across Yemen, leaving the vulnerability of a large part of the
population unaddressed. These services were already chronically under-developed
before the crisis and the devastation during the crisis further deteriorated these
services.. According to the Ministry of Education (MOE), about 810 schools were severely
or completely damaged by the armed conflict. Regarding health services, the major
deterioration was in access to health facilities, which dropped from 68 percent pre-conflict
to 50 percent post-conflict. In addition to causing destruction of health facilities and
displacement of health staff, the emergency health system lacked capacity to respond to
the violence and accidents that occurred during the crisis.

While the poor faced increased household debt, forced at times to sell off limited
assets, the most affected ultimately were clearly women and children. Foregoing
medical treatment resulted in worsening of maternal and child health. Children particularly
faced a reduced number of meals and decreased dietary diversification. Children were
taken out of school and often times used as laborers and, in some cases, sent illegally to
neighboring countries.

Against this fragile context and mounting concerns regarding the increased poverty
and vulnerability, the Government of Yemen requested World Bank financial
assistance to support the most vulnerable and stabilize the social disorder caused by
the crisis. Deepening poverty and unemployment, and a widespread sense of injustice and
exclusion demanded response that provided governance, voice, and opportunities for poor
and vulnerable most affected by this crisis. The World Bank agreed to support the
Government through financing the cash transfers for the most vulnerable & eligible
beneficiaries under the Social Welfare Fund program.

    1.2 Government’s Response



3
 WFP released preliminary findings of the Yemen Comprehensive Food Security Survey on March 14,
2012.

4
   The 2010 food price spike placed stress on the balance of payments, with estimates suggesting that a 50
percent increase in wheat prices cost one percent of GDP and 20 percent of foreign reserves.


                                                    2
To cope with the emergency crisis, Yemen developed a Transition Plan for
Stabilization and Development (TPSD). Strong commitment from international
community to support the TPSD was expressed with total pledges of about US$7.5 billion
received during the donors conference in Riyadh and the follow-up Friends of Yemen
meeting in New York (September 2012). These pledges, while substantial, did not fully
meet the Government's short-term needs amounting to US$4.3 billion and the medium-
term development priorities amounting to US$7.65 billion. To this effect, a Mutual
Accountability Framework was agreed upon, which bound the Government and the donors
to their commitments.

As one of the priorities under the TPSD, the Government of Yemen (GOY) intended
to enhance the safety net mechanisms and networks to support the poor. The emphasis
was on (a) labor-intensive investments in all economic sectors with special focus on youth
and women in labor-force participation and (b) expansion of cash transfers through the
Social Welfare Fund (SWF).5 Leveraging support for the most vulnerable was one of the
highest priorities for the immediate period. To this effect, the GOY decided to enroll about
500,000 new beneficiaries in the SWF cash benefits program in 2011. The difficult fiscal
situation, reflecting the country’s overall fragile political situation, made this an overly
ambitious goal. Hence, there was a distinct need to seek support from donors, including
the World Bank.

     1.3 Rationale for World Bank Assistance

The World Bank’s response was framed and embedded into multiple partnership
agreements with GOY and donor community supporting Yemen’s post-crisis
transition.

First, the World Bank, with the European Union (EU), Islamic Development Bank
(IsDB), United Nations (UN), and other development partners, prepared a Joint
Social and Economic Assessment (JSEA) in 2012 to evaluate the impact of the crisis
and identify recovery measures. The JSEA recommended protecting critical social
expenditures in the short term and maintaining income levels and critical basic services,
especially for the poor. The project provided an opening for the Bank to actively support
Yemen’s post-crisis transition.

Second, following JSEA, the Bank’s support to the transition phase was framed in the
Interim Strategy Note (ISN), FY13-14. Agreed to by the GOY and the World Bank
Group’s Board of Executive Directors on November 13, 2013, the ISN supported three
strategic pillars: (a) achieving quick wins and protecting the poor by creating short-term
jobs, restoring basic services, improving access to social safety nets, and revitalizing
livelihoods; (b) improving economic management by helping maintain macro stability,
strengthening fiscal policies and public financial management, and improving the enabling


5
 SWF is the largest public cash-transfer-based social safety net in Yemen, established in 1996. In 2011, the SWF expanded its coverage
by 50 percent to reach 1.5 million households, representing 6.9 million individuals in all 21 governorates.




                                                                  3
environments for private sector growth competitiveness; and (c) enhancing governance and
local service delivery by supporting local governance, capacity building, service delivery
and improved citizen engagement.

   1.4 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objective (PDO) of the Emergency Crisis Recovery Project
(ECRP) as laid out in the Project Paper was to assist the recipient in mitigating the impact
of the 2011 crisis by providing cash benefits to eligible poor households.

The PDO was measured through the following key indicators:
   1. Number of households receiving cash transfers through the project
   2. Number of direct project beneficiaries, of which percent female

And intermediate indicators included:
  1. Amount of grant transferred to beneficiaries.
  2. Timely submission of financial statements for reimbursement of cash transfers
  3. Timely submission of Monitoring Reports

   1.5 Expected Outcomes

The main expected outcome of the ECRP was providing financial support to about
400,000 poor households made more vulnerable due to the country crisis and price
increases, particularly for food. About 40 percent of households covered by the project
had a woman as a head of the household. The total number of individuals to benefit from
the cash assistance provided through the project was estimated at 2.4 million persons of
whom 52 percent were females.

   1.6 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
   and Reasons/Justification

No revision of the PDO or key indicators was conducted.

   1.7 Main Beneficiaries

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified 400,000 poor households as the primary
beneficiaries. These 400,000 households were selected among the new SWF beneficiaries
in 2011 as identified through the 2008 nationwide SWF beneficiary survey and the proxy
means test (PMT) targeting mechanism.

   1.8 Original Components (as approved)

According to the Project Paper, the ECRP had two main components:



                                             4
      Component 1: Cash Transfer to Poor Households (US$99.8 million). This
       component provided cash benefit payments to about 400,000 poor households. The
       project financed cash benefits (about US$10-20 per month) to eligible households
       for a 15-month period (July 2012-December 2013). The associated service fees (1
       percent) charged by the servicing agencies (Post Office and commercial banks) as
       well as the related SWF operational costs for project implementation were financed
       by the GOY.

      Component 2: Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Implementation (US$0.2
       million). This component was expected to provide consultancy services necessary
       to support the SWF in monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of project
       implementation, including external audit.


   1.9 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

   1.10 Other Significant Changes

No changes took place to the original design and/or implementation arrangements.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

   2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Preparation: The ECRP was prepared in accordance with the Emergency Recovery
Assistance Procedures (OP 8.00, Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) considering
the fragile political situation and recognizing the need for a rapid response. The project
was consistent with the World Bank’s ISN. The project preparation team comprised highly
experienced Bank staff, SWF officials and international expertize who understood the local
context and contributed through their experience from other post-revolution/conflict
situations. The Bank team consulted extensively with the donors and partners throughout
the design process.

Design: The project was conceptualized on two key aspects: (a) existing fiduciary controls
and management system at SWF utilized for delivering cash prior to the project, but it faced
some problems during the implementation; and (b) soundness of cash transfer as a
mechanism to reach the poor during crisis. Assessment and lessons learned from cash-
transfer programs in Bangladesh, Kenya, Pakistan, and Tanzania were reviewed for
effectiveness, targeting, and implementation challenges. The experiences and evidence
showed that (a) well-designed cash-transfer programs can reach the poor in a cost-effective
manner and serve as an effective alternative to poorly targeted and inefficient subsidies;
(b) cash-transfer programs are an efficient way of redistributing income to the poor and
thereby raising their consumption levels; (c) the impact on school enrollment and


                                             5
attendance rates is positive; and (d) food consumption is likely to increase. In addition to
the global experiences, the ECRP benefitted from the experience and lessons learned from
the Yemen Emergency Social Safety Net Enhancement Project funded through the
European Union Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility and from the technical assistance
provided to the SWF through the Bank-financed Institutional Support Project (ISP) to
reform its targeting through the application of PMT-based targeting.

In summary, three basic principles guided the final project design:

    (a) Rapid response. Evidence from the 2011 Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)
        report on social safety nets on unconditional cash transfers (UCTs) showed that
        UCTs were the most appropriate social safety net instrument to use in a crisis
        situation for 3 reasons: (i) they can be expanded or contracted without the constraint
        of “eligibility” limitations, (ii) they are administratively simpler than other options
        of supporting the SWF cash transfer, and (iii) they are politically more acceptable
        during time of crisis.
    (b) Simplification. Keeping the design simple allows the project to be efficiently
        implemented and easily monitored, and moreover, a choice was made to provide
        assistance to those poor families already verified to be eligible and placed on a
        waiting list, thus not posing additional requirements on the project in selecting new
        beneficiaries;
    (c) Continuity and capacity. The choice of an implementing agency was based on prior
        experience and capacity to deliver the cash benefits. The risk was too serious to try
        out an untested mechanism and agency in times of this crisis. The SWF was an
        existing agency operating for the past 12 years and had improved its targeting
        mechanism from categorical targeting to PMT-based targeting of the eligible poor.
        The SWF had conducted national beneficiary surveys to improve targeting of poor
        households. The targeting under emergency operation benefited from the survey
        results and the application of identification of eligible poor; although throughout
        implementation, the SWF faced challenges with regard to their fiduciary
        management and timely delivery of benefits.


    2.2 Risk Assessment

The overall risk assessment was “substantial” considering the fragile country context, weak
governance, inadequate institutional capacity and fiduciary risks. Several measures were
considered to mitigate these risks.

To mitigate these risks, the project relied primarily on the ongoing ISP which is an
IDA-funded technical assistance project aimed at building capacity of SWF6, however,



6
  The SWF-implemented Yemen ISP is an IDA-financed project (US$10 million) to help (i) increase the
share of poor households among beneficiaries of the cash transfer program; and (ii) contribute in building
the human capital of SWF beneficiaries in selected districts. The World Bank provides primarily technical


                                                     6
not all measures were implemented as envisaged. The ISP technical assistance was
expected in: (a) intensive staff training and introducing performance monitoring measures
through the M&E system by ISP; (b) strengthening the capacity of the SWF in targeting,
management, and administrative processes as well as monitoring and evaluation; (c)
supporting SWF in handling project financial and procurement management; (d) expanding
scope of work of SWF Internal Audit Department (IAD) to support the project in checking
the list of proposed beneficiary households and confirming eligibility, including
conducting regular visits to a sample of selected beneficiaries and submitting internal audit
reports to the SWF Managing Director; and (e) following up on payments of beneficiaries
by SWF Department of Allocation. In addition to these measures, a special provision in
the ECRP’s External Auditor’s terms of reference was included to conduct field visits to a
sample of selected beneficiaries to validate the beneficiaries’ eligibility and proper receipt
of funds, as part of project monitoring and evaluation. However, it is worth noting that
some of these measures remained unaddressed especially those related to monitoring and
evaluation and tracking beneficiary payments.

Capacity and Fiduciary Management Risks:

The capacity risk was rated high at the appraisal stage of the project considering
limited capacity of SWF staff and inadequate experience and skills among the staff
appointed for the project by the Ministry of Civil Service. As noted in the PAD and
later substantiated by interviews with the Bank and SWF staff, SWF also suffered from
low staff morale as a result of inadequate compensation scheme and operating budget
which constrained their ability to provide adequate quality support to the project. The
project however tried to make use of the ISP-provided fiduciary support to the SWF for
over two years which helped expand its knowledge of the Bank’s financial and
procurement requirements. However, it was not clear how this enhanced capacity helped
in averting some of the fiduciary issues faced by the project. Moreover, the discussions
between MOF and MOLSA (Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs) on the SWF operating
budgets were expected to be finalized and formalized as part of MOLSA’s regular budget
but future of these discussions seems to be in disarray.

Governance and Targeting Risks

The risks to the project of not reaching the targeted beneficiaries and political
pressure to cover certain regions in the face of political instability were high. Several
actions were taken to manage these risks. With ISP support, prior selection of project
beneficiaries’ PMT-based testing and data from the SWF national survey (covering 1.6
million households) helped to target the eligible beneficiaries. About 0.5 million
households added in 2011 were reviewed by a tripartite committee comprising the SWF,
MOF, and the Central Organization for Control and Audit (COCA). In addition, to mitigate
the risk of leakages, the SWF developed an automated accounting system that was expected
to record and report transactions from the World Bank-financed projects. It was noted that


assistance to strengthen the capacity of the SWF in targeting, management, and administrative processes as
well as M&E of the nation’s only cash transfer program.


                                                    7
the project benefitted from the prior selection of the beneficiaries using the PMT formula
developed with the support of ISP.

Similarly, the risks of reduced payments and non-delivery of benefits in remote areas
were also high. These risks were planned to be mitigated by using only payment agencies,
mostly the Post Office, which have proven to be an efficient way of delivering cash in
Yemen. In addition, both the EU and the World Bank had planned on providing technical
assistance to strengthen the SWF M&E system and to establish a complaint-handling
mechanism that was expected to be used for ECRP. To manage this risk appropriately, the
Bank had planned to carry out supervision missions at least twice a year and coordinating
with other interventions in the sector, providing additional operational support to the
Sana’a Office, including a qualified financial management (FM) specialist supervising the
project’s FM activities. However, EU support for M&E was not as expeditious as expected,
and Bank’s financial management support could have been more stable.

   2.3 Adequacy of Participatory Processes

Collaborations with development partners and other concerned government agencies
were well established, which benefitted the project design and preparation. As part of
supporting Yemen’s post-crisis transition, the World Bank solidified its collaboration with
the EU, IsDB, and UN through the JSEA to evaluate the impact from the crisis and identify
recovery measures. The JSEA served as the basis for discussions at the donor’s conference
in Riyadh and thereafter providing a platform for a unified support to the project. All in all,
the ECRP had set a good example of consensus building and stakeholder consultation
process as most development partners and government agencies had a stake in the project’s
success. Although during the implementation this collaboration was not as steady as at the
design stage.

The World Bank’s long-standing effort to support social sectors in Yemen provided
an opportunity for integration of suggestions and concerns of broader development
community into the design of the project. The Bank played a leading role in supporting
Yemen’s Poverty Reduction Strategy and its Human Development Agenda in collaboration
with the EU, Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), International
Labor Organization (ILO), UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and several human
development ministries. Since the Bank was already collaborating with multiple agencies
on a variety of sectors, the project design further helped to establish parameters for wider
consultation with both the donor and beneficiary community. Moreover, with Bank support
to the social protection sector in Yemen through the Social Fund for Development, the
Public Works Project, and the SWF, the ECRP was able to gauge participation of
development partners in improving the targeting and the impact of the country’s social
programs.

   2.4 Implementation

There were no implementation changes and restructuring throughout the project
period. The choice of SWF as an implementing agency was best in the circumstances



                                              8
considering its implementation apparatus and existing cash-transfer mechanism that was
put in place with significant support from ISP. 7 With regard to implementation apparatus,
as of January 2012, the SWF had 1,810 staff operating through a three-level organizational
structure: head office in Sana’a with 190 staff; 22 branch offices with 762 staff covering
all governorates in Yemen; and 214 district offices (out of 334 districts) with 816 staff.
However, the inadequate operational budget did not help with maintaining the quality of
staff and it continues to remain an issue. With regard to cash-transfer mechanisms, SWF
had been delivering the payments to the beneficiaries in a challenging and traumatic
environment, although with several and significant delays and lags.

At the appraisal, it was agreed that payments to the beneficiaries will be delivered on
a quarterly basis but during the implementation, this process seemed to have faltered
and delivery of benefits slipped number of times. The SWF used the Yemen Post Office,
with its 251 branches and mobile units for delivering checks/payments. As was reported in
the PAD, those areas that were unreachable by the Post Office could receive services by
Alamal and CAC banks. But during implementation, there was no evidence of these
alternatives mechanisms being used for benefit delivery. For its services to SWF, the
payment agency charges a 1 percent service fee, which is funded by the Government. The
payment amount (as of 2008 to the present) ranged from YER 2,000 to YER4,000 per
month per family, depending on the number of children. This payment, while quite small
in international comparison of similar programs was expected to help the beneficiaries cope
with the effects of the economic hardships aggravated by the price increases. Although,
the preliminary results of the ongoing beneficiary assessment do not provide any evidence
if the payments actually helped the families in reverting their economic hardship.

The implementation process benefitted from the ISP support in helping SWF
establishing the internal management structure, adopting PMT-based targeting, and
building business processing systems which helped in delivering during the crisis.
Furthermore, the Emergency Social Safety Net Enhancement Project and the ISP also
helped in administering the project funds. The Project Support Team included a Technical
Coordinator, Financial Management Specialist, Accountant, Procurement Specialist,
Procurement Advisor, and Management Information System Specialist; it reported to the
Executive Secretary.

Despite ISP’s support, SWF capacity seemed to have been over-estimated for
implementing an emergency operation of this size. The project confronted several
hiccups throughout the implementation, primarily attributed to its inadequate project and
fiduciary management capacity. This was identified as the risk in the PAD and the
mitigation measures (as highlighted above) were put in place but not fully implemented as
envisaged.



7
  The SWF was established in 1996 by Presidential Law No.31, and is governed by the revised Presidential Law 39 (2008). Its Board
of Directors, headed by the Minister of Social Affairs and Labor, is composed of the Vice Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of
Social Affairs and Labor, Deputy Minister of Local Administration, Executive Director of the SWF (member and secretary),
Executive Managers of Social Security Network Programs, and community representatives of private sector and civil society
organizations.



                                                                9
   2.5 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. The M&E was designed around the delivery of cash benefits (core PDO
indicators) to eligible beneficiaries. The indicators were simple and few but not sufficient
enough to adequately measure the improvements in lives of the beneficiaries as a result of
the cash benefits as stated in the PDO. The beneficiary lists had been prepared through the
PMT process through the ISP support before the project and financial audits were planned
to verify the disbursement of benefits.

Implementation. The existing M&E Department and governorate branch offices of SWF
were responsible for monitoring the project implementation. Even though the SWF system
was not fully functional, technical assistance through EU-funded project was expected to
help strengthen its capacity. However, the project did not implement the monitoring
activities as rigorously as planned. Some of the shortcomings include: (i) absence of spot
checks to verify identity of beneficiaries; (ii) lack of independent surveys to track the
quantitative results indictors; and (iii) prolonged delay in launching the beneficiary
assessment. The Beneficiary Assessment was launched after the closing of the project and
only partial results were made available at the ICR preparation, and there was no time to
check the quality and validate the results.

Reporting and monitoring mechanisms and data tools in SWF and Post Office were
utilized to transfer the funds, although, adequacy and effectiveness of the
reconciliation process remained unclear throughout the implementation. The
monitoring of day-to-day implementation of cash benefits was centered on existing
controls. The SWF provided the Post Office with the list of beneficiaries in an electronic
form, which was then imported into the Post Office internal system. Once approved, the
data was locked into the Post Office system. From this data, the Post Office could generate
and send reconciliation reports showing the contact information of the beneficiaries. Cross-
referencing data from the reconciliation reports with SWF data was expected to ensure
accurate disbursement to eligible beneficiaries. Monthly reports on the cash payments for
each district were expected to be reconciled by governorate offices and sent to the SWF
M&E Department. While the reports confirmed that SWF met the eligibility criteria for
beneficiaries through reconciliation of data provided by the Post Office with the SWF
database, the entire reconciliation process took somewhere between 3 to 6 months which
seemed to have significantly contributed to payment delays. There was no evidence of any
further effort made by the Bank or the Government to provide SWF any additional
technical expertise as part of project supervision to expedite this reconciliation process.


   2.6 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

There were no safeguard triggers.



Financial Management and Disbursement



                                            10
Given the nature of the project itself and inherent risks in the country system and of the
Financial Management (FM) arrangements already in place in the SWF, the overall FM
risk rating of the project was assessed as “high”. In compliance with the Bank’s OP/BP
10.02, Financial Management, and OP 8.00, Rapid Response to Crisis and Emergencies,
the SWF maintained acceptable FM arrangements to implement the ECRP, although the
process was not as smooth as anticipated at the appraisal. At appraisal, the project was
expected to ensure provision of appropriate oversight arrangements, including corporate
governance and fiduciary oversight for adequate monitoring and supervision of rapid
response operation. As noted above, the financial audit reports formed the primary basis
for monitoring the project targets. There were no qualifications noted in the audit reports.

At the appraisal, the SWF was expected to take the following measures to enhance its
FM system and reduce the fiduciary management risks: (a) defining formal FM
procedures and controls, including agreement on the role of the Internal Audit Department,
to be applied during implementation, and documenting these controls and procedures in
the Project Procedures Manual; (b) retaining a qualified FM specialist; (c) establishing an
accounting system capable of recording project transactions and generating timely project
financial reports; and (d) engaging an independent private external auditor to perform
quarterly audits of the project’s activities, especially verification on th e cash-transfer
process, issuing quarterly audited Interim Financial Reports, and conducting year-end
audits on the Project Financial Statements.

Despite the above planned measures, the fiduciary management faced setbacks
throughout the implementation. While SWF had a stable FM system with a qualified
FM specialist and well-functioning accounting system, the fiduciary management
remained “moderately satisfactory” through the first two quarters of the project. This rating
was due to delays in processing the first withdrawal application pertaining to technical
issues with the e-disbursement system, and overdue Interim Financial Report. Overtime,
the project made improvements with timely submission of audit reports, and the fiduciary
management aspect reverted back to “satisfactory” status. Eventually, the project
disbursed 100 percent of the IDA credit. All audit reports have been submitted on time
with unqualified audit opinions and have been acceptable to IDA.

Procurement

Since there was limited procurement involved in the project, the staff and other resources
used for the ISP were deemed sufficient to cover project-related activities. The
procurement remained “satisfactory” throughout the project.




   2.7 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase




                                             11
Yemen is still emerging from the 2011 economic crisis. While the ECRP was expected
to ease the economic hardships on the poor, the economic hardships for Yemeni households
appear worse now than they were during the 2011 crisis when the Bank prepared the
project. Continuing political tensions and ongoing conflict and war have contributed to
further deterioration of living conditions in the country. With Yemen unable to sustain
robust economic growth and job creation, many families are struggling to meet their basic
needs. Amidst an historic political transition, GOY has also embarked on a strong
economic reform program with the objectives to reduce fiscal deficit, generate growth and
employment, and address widespread poverty and unemployment. A three-year reform
program to be supported by a SDR 365.25 million International Monetary Fund Extended
Credit Facility and other donors was approved on September 2, 2014. At the center of the
reform program is a substantial reduction in fuel subsidies. While fuel subsidies in Yemen,
as in elsewhere, largely accrue to the rich, the adverse impacts arising from the reform
program have aggravated the economic hardships, particularly for the poor and vulnerable.
This compounds the already difficult living conditions for many Yemenis struggling to
recover from ongoing economic hardships. For the continuation of safety net operations,
the World Bank is providing IDA grant and mobilizing donor support to the
implementation of the social protection agenda.

In this regard, a follow-up operation was prepared in the amount of US$59 million to
continue the cash transfers for the poor. The proposed operation will support GOY in
protecting social expenditures and maintaining critical basic services. It will finance and
seek co-financing to assist GOY in ensuring that targeted vulnerable households have
access to cash transfers during this period of particular economic hardships aggravated by
the subsidy reform program. The operation is being prepared and implemented under
paragraph 12 of the World Bank’s OP 10.00 on “Projects in Situations of Urgent Need of
Assistance or Capacity Constraints” and under condensed procedures. In addition to the
Bank’s US$90 million, other donors are contributing to the GOY effort to protect pro-poor
social spending and mitigate the impact of the subsidy reform program. The Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia has provided grant assistance that has, among other support, fully covered
SWF benefits for the first quarter of 2014 (totaling about US$80 million). The United
States is contributing US$30 million to co-finance the proposed operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

   3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation: Rating – “Satisfactory”

Relevance of Project at Appraisal

At appraisal, the relevance of objectives, design, and implementation was high. The
project supported a cost-effective intervention that was expected to offset the adverse
income effect of the crisis through cash transfers. These interventions were consistent with
the three major development documents: the ISN, JSEA, and TPSD.

The project objective was most relevant to the crisis and its immediate aftermath. The
project was included as one of the key components of the Bank’s ISN response to prevent



                                            12
a worsening of the current humanitarian situation and ensure protection of the most critical
social expenditures. The operation was also a first realization of the Bank’s pledge made
at the September 2012 Riyadh conference. Most importantly, these activities still remain
highly relevant in light of continuing economic downturn and deteriorating living
conditions of the poorest households.

The project design built on the effectiveness and relevance from global experiences of
cash transfers in cases of emergencies and crisis such as in Yemen at the time of
project preparation. The relevance of the design was also supported by the
recommendations of the 2011 IEG report on social safety nets. While the choice of
instrument should depend on country context and the nature of the crisis, the report
indicates that case study evidence shows that “UCTs were the most appropriate social
safety net instrument to use in a crisis situation”. In addition, experience and lessons
learned from the Emergency Social Safety Net Enhancement Project, funded through the
EU Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility, indicated the dire need to offset the adverse
impact on the poor during the crisis.

At appraisal, the choice of implementation agency and arrangements was deemed
most appropriate and relevant to the project needs. The procedures for the flow of funds
between MOF, SWF, and payment agencies (i.e., Post Office) and the beneficiaries were
in place. All the necessary mechanisms for reconciliation of payments between SWF and
payment agencies were confirmed to be in place. However, during the implementation, it
was noted that the entire reconciliation process almost took between 3-6 months which
contributed to the several payment lags as noted later in the section on implementation
progress.

Despite the efforts and systems in place, the delivery and monitoring of cash delivery
remained challenging throughout the implementation. While the SWF had in place a
satisfactory system to deliver cash, several systemic and structural gaps and challenges
were identified during the delivery process. Among them, the most significant ones that
follow:

   Fiduciary team was not well prepared. The Government expressed concern that the
    Bank team had not adequately prepared the FM team on the payment and disbursement
    procedures and amounts. The procurement officer lacked understanding with regard to
    the selection timing and process for hiring the external auditor.

   Beneficiaries received payments late. The first-quarter payment of 2013 was paid in
    April 2013 (due March 2013), and a combined second- and third-quarter payment for
    2013 started in July 2013. The SWF faced challenges disbursing large payments in
    Yemini Rial due to the restrictions applied by the World Bank in handling three
    different currencies (SDR, US$, YER) — that is, the World Bank withheld foreign
    exchange margin of 15-20 percent of the withdrawal application amount; a certain
    threshold (maximum amount that can be disbursed through one withdrawal application)
    was applied in disbursing in YER.




                                            13
   Funding from MOF was always delayed. MOF continued to transfer funds late, and
    the reconciliation process further delayed the final payments to beneficiaries. MOF
    disburses the funds out of the National Treasury to the SWF through the MOSAL.
    These funds comprise the full amount for both administrative costs as well as payments
    for the cash transfer program beneficiaries. The delayed transfer of funds from MOF
    to SWF resulted into delayed payments to the beneficiaries, sometimes by months.

   No mechanism was put in place to follow up on late payments to beneficiaries; hence,
    unpredictability of benefits remained high. One assessment report by Ayala
    Consulting noted that beneficiaries received payments 3-4 months later than scheduled
    and then all three payments were received in one tranche. This led to enormous
    unpredictability among beneficiaries. Moreover, the beneficiaries in more remote areas
    complained that due to lack of transportation, they were not able to collect benefits
    directly from the Post Office; and, if they used a middle-man for collection on their
    behalf, they were subjected to paying a commission.

   In absence of payment agencies (Post Office) in remote locations, an alternate plan
    of using Alamal and CAC banks was discussed in the PAD, but it never materialized.
    . The security risk of transporting cash in remote areas was high although at a small
    scale considering the known geographical constraints. About 2 percent (8,000) of
    eligible beneficiaries that the project targeted did not receive payment at all. Some
    beneficiaries were not even aware that they were eligible for these benefits and did not
    make attempt to collect them.

       Beneficiary assessment was not undertaken in time to reconcile issues directly
        with the beneficiaries, and the money allocated for M&E under the project
        management was not used. The beneficiary survey was launched in September
        2014 (moved from a start date in March 2014 due to delays in procurement of the
        consultant and readying proper guidance and monitoring by the World Bank). Due
        to project closing, the survey implementation is being financed by ISP and will not
        be completed before January 2015. The preliminary results from the beneficiary
        assessment were made available on Dec. 1st, 2014, but there was no time to check
        the quality and validity of these results.

Overall, the design, objective and choice of implementation agency and arrangements
continue to remain relevant for delivering cash benefits for the following reasons,
although it is worth noting that ISP support will be critical to maintain relevance:

       The SWF adoption of a successful targeting mechanism has potential for targeting
        those that are the most in need.
       The agency has access to the country’s largest database on the poor and a rare reach-
        out mechanism. For any pro-poor targeting and benefit distribution, SWF is the
        most appropriate channel.
       The SWF with the support of ISP is working on putting other building blocks in
        place that pertain to business processes, including the delivery of correct benefit



                                             14
          amounts, case management, and grievance system. However, these will need to be
          built and implemented for an effective cash-transfer mechanism.

       3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The progress toward achievement of PDOs is rated as “satisfactory”. The project was
measured through two main PDO indicators: (a) number of households receiving cash
transfers through the project; and (b) number of direct project beneficiaries, and of which
50 percent are female. These indicators were measured mainly through the financial report
that provided information on delivery of cash to number of households. SWF management
information system reconciled number of households with the Post Office’s cash
delivery/confirmation reports. The project is rated satisfactory considering achievement of
numerical targets. However, it was hard to justify any improvements in the beneficiaries’
socio-economic conditions in absence of the Beneficiary Assessment that could inform
and/or confirm this assessment. .

PDO Indicator 1: 400,000 families receiving cash transfers. The component was slow
to start and there were several delays throughout the implementation with several missed
payments which were delivered late. This also led to unpredictability on part of
beneficiaries to plan their spending and consumption. The project financed cash transfers
for about 393,000 families (against the target of 400,000). As indicated in the reconciliation
report, the project targeted the households that were included in the beneficiary list
prepared before the project., In this sense, using the PMT-based targeting as opposed to
the previous categorical targeting method enhanced the impact of the cash-transfer program.

PDO Indicator 2: 2.5 million individual project beneficiaries, of which 50 percent are
female. Through the project, 52 percent of about 2.4 million individual beneficiaries were
female (more than meeting the target of 50 percent), as per the data from SWF management
information system.

Intermediate indictors included:

(i)       Amount of grant transferred to beneficiaries—A total of $99,798,204 was
          transferred to the beneficiaries reflecting 99.8 percent at the closing
(ii)      Timely submission of financial statements for reimbursement of cash
          transfers—the financial statements were submitted, although with significant
          delays during first half of the project which have been discussed in detail as part of
          implementation assessment
(iii)     Timely submission of monitoring reports. There was zero submission of the
          project monitoring reports to the World Bank due to delays by MOF to release
          funds to SWF for monitoring and evaluation activities. SWF submitted an M&E
          action plan to MOF but as noted in the ISRs, MOF did not respond positively to the
          request, therefore, all the project activities pertaining to the project monitoring and
          evaluation were cancelled. With regard to submission of monitoring reports, the
          SWF submitted progress report which primarily comprised data from the audit
          report. There was very little reporting on the daily monitoring of activities and


                                                15
       progress on the ground. The planned impact evaluation was cancelled and
       beneficiary assessment was initiated with significant delays after the project was
       closed. The beneficiary assessment is now being financed by the ISP project and
       final results are not expected until January 2015.

   3.3 Efficiency in Targeting

A full economic analysis was not conducted for this ICR due to lack of evaluation data
given the nature of the project. An independent assessment was conducted to evaluate
the targeting efficiency of the SWF PMT-based targeting formula. The households selected
in the sample size were determined by the probability of being selected into the program
to ensure a representative sample size for the population of applicants in the selected
districts. Sample size is able to produce a confidence level of 95 percent and account for
an attrition rate of 10 percent. The cross-tabulation in Table 3.1 of the observed poverty
status with the PMT poverty groups generated 59 percent of good matches (dark grey), 34
percent of acceptable matches (light grey), and only 8 percent of poor matches.

            Table 3.1
                                       SWF PMT
                                       Extreme
                                       poor        Poor     Non-poor    Total
                        Extreme poor   26%         9%       2%          37%
               Actual




                        Poor           9%          23%      4%          36%
                        Non-poor       6%          12%      10%         28%

As a result of the efficient targeting, cash-transfer program is expected to generate
significant impacts on poverty if households receive benefits on time and overall macro-
economy does not deteriorate.

   3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall project outcome rating is “satisfactory” attributed to (a) the numerical
achievement of the targets, (b) achieving targeting efficiencies; and (c) fully disbursing the
credit. These numerical targets were achieved despite the high political and governance
risks, a very volatile situation on the ground, high implementation uncertainties, and
implementation challenges that the project faced.



   3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development

The project beneficiaries are the poorest groups and women. The PMT allowed
targeting the poorest based on specific features. Data pertaining to individual/household
characteristics and household ownership of durable goods were collected and a series of


                                             16
“weights” were applied to predict household welfare. The households were classified in
six categories: categories A to D included poor or extremely poor households; category E
included vulnerable to poverty-level households; and category F included not poor
households. The ECRP financed cash benefits to households from categories A to D.

Women were the largest beneficiary of the project at 52%, exceeding the original
target of 50%. During project preparation, the expectation to reach such large number of
individual women was low. Despite the long existence of the program, the project was
subject to skepticism and disbelief that cash could be distributed without major breakdown
or without conditions, given the high political, governance and security risks.

(b) Institutional change/strengthening

The project opened an enormous opportunity for SWF strengthening and capacity
building to become an effective national cash-transfer program. Although the project
was in response to an emergency crisis and was implemented on the basis of the existing
implementation capacity, the ongoing ISP and the project have contributed tremendously
to the institutional development of SWF in the following ways:

      The technical assistance support provided ISP was finally put to use under this
       project to deliver cash utilizing the new PMT-based targeting procedures.
      The SWF’s familiarity and hands-on experience with PMT and enhanced
       distribution mechanisms are critical to strengthening of the sector and building
       systems to continue to provide similar services in the long run more effectively and
       efficiently.

(c) Other unintended outcomes and impacts (positive or negative)

The SWF and its partners, including the local participating agencies (Post Office,
SWF local offices) and community organizations, have been enriched through this
experience. Moreover, their knowledge on the role of safety nets in broader poverty
reduction and impact on poor has also been augmented. The SWF’s experience in
analyzing the opportunities and challenges in reaching the poorest was another positive,
yet unintended outcome.

The SWF’s credibility as a social protection agency and as a primary poverty-
targeting mechanism for delivering cash benefits has gained momentum from its
implementation of the ECRP. Other multi-lateral and bi-lateral institutions, including the
UN, are now willing to invest in SWF. UNICEF has recently committed technical and
financial support.


   3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The Beneficiary Assessment (BA) was only initiated in November 2014 and the final
report is not due until January 2015. The project closed on June 30th, 2014 and


                                           17
consequently, the BA had to be financed from the ongoing ISP project. The Bank received
the preliminary results on December 1st, 2014, but due to questionable methodology and
drawbacks in following the agreed TORs, the results cannot be validated and confirmed to
be included in the ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome: Rating - “Substantial”

Yemen remains vulnerable to economic downturn, increased poverty, and increased
prices. In this volatile environment, the improved capacity and ownership by SWF is
encouraging for mitigating future risks to outcomes achieved under this project. The
knowledge acquired on the conditions and vulnerabilities of the Yemeni population and
the contribution to bringing cash transfers to the poorest population have provided SWF
with the fundamental building blocks for an enhanced institutional environment.

However, the sustainability of project development outcome seems more related to
continuous technical support of ISP and less to SWF’s own technical and strategic
capacity. While SWF has successfully adopted PMT-based targeting and is able to deliver
cash, the building of an efficient and effective poverty targeting and cash-delivery
mechanism is still in the making. There are deep-rooted systemic and structural challenges
that need to be addressed while continuing to deliver cash benefits.

As indicated in the implementation performance, the following issues pertaining to late
payments, unpredictability of benefits, absence of grievance system, and inadequate
operational budget need to be tackled immediately, especially given the recent approval of
a follow up emergency cash transfer operation:

      Inadequate beneficiary selection and database cleanup. Various SWF
       departments are engaged in producing their own beneficiary lists. This effort is not
       consolidated, and data is still not cleaned and regularly updated with the PMT-
       based targeting. This poses a risk for not delivering to the eligible beneficiaries in
       a transparent manner. The ISP is supporting the development of a centralized and
       integrated database system with modules for targeting (data entry and survey
       statistics), beneficiaries updates (statistics, reports and variable analysis), PMT-
       based and beneficiary selection, and payment (list control) to help reduce this
       fragmentation and distribute the benefits with least amount of leakages and double
       payments.
      Insufficient attention to beneficiary development. The SWF has not focused on
       beneficiary development and graduating the poor despite its mandate to do so.
       Under ISP, SWP has started to pilot a small program to address this issue. It is risky
       to continue to invest and rely on an institution with no clear agenda or strategy for
       impacting the beneficiary outcome.
      Lack of grievance system. The SWF has a grievance system in place that registers
       and follows up on complaints but remains inefficient and ineffective. First, the
       system is based on manual recording with no case management and follow-up
       processes or procedures in place. Second, the central management information
       system is not connected to the local offices so there is no way to track the


                                            18
       beneficiary records. Third, in some governorates, the SWF local offices are more
       active than others and efforts to track their distribution of benefits are done
       manually; this is inefficient and not sustainable. Fourth, there is no budget to build
       a good grievance system. The ISP has allocated a small amount to upgrade the
       existing grievance system through the provision of technical assistance to local
       offices, the training on recording and following up of the complaints with the
       central authorities.
      Inadequate operational budget and gaps in administrative payments for Post
       Offices. Inadequate operational budget will continue to pose enormous risks to
       sustaining the gains achieved, and continuing the capacity-building efforts are
       critically needed to deliver benefits during and after crisis. The major issue is
       related to compensation for the Post Office. A participating Post Office receives a
       fee equivalent to or less than 2 percent, which is lowest in the world, and is expected
       to operate in a difficult environment of security risks and rough geographical
       terrain. Under these circumstances it is difficult to keep Post Offices functioning
       effectively. Added to this hurdle, the overall operational budget, including fees for
       the Post Office, is below 5 percent. And the expected work level of SWF staff is
       inconsistent with their pay scale. It will be challenging to sustain the gains and
       manage another US$100 million project on the way without adequate operational
       and management budget to address these gaps.

While the Government has made cash transfers to the poorest a national priority, the
role of SWF will become more vital than ever before to solidify the assistance
provided by social protection sector and build on the gains achieved through this
project. Continuous ISP support will be critical; and if it continues as envisaged, the
likelihood of building an effective and sustainable cash-transfer mechanism is high.
Sustainability is directly linked to ISP support in building the system for SWF to deliver
on its mandate. After providing targeting support, ISP is now focused on (a) introducing
case management for a regular update of the beneficiary data, (b) building systems and
applications for updating the beneficiary database, (c) introducing a grievance system, and
(d) exploring the mechanism for e-payment.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

   5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry: Rating – “Satisfactory”

The Bank team possessed the required skills mix, expertise, and experience to prepare
the emergency project in a timely manner and through a very proactive and effective
engagement with donors and a country team. The team had a sound relationship with
the Government as well. The team was resilient in monitoring the repercussions of the
crisis and immediately started consultations on the possibility of an emergency operation.
In October 2012, team prepared a proposal for the Emergency Recovery Credit. With the
benefit of country team consultations, the Bank team was able to secure funds for
preparation: within 4 months, the project financing was approved for US$100 million.


                                             19
Project was appraised and negotiations conducted within 4 months. The project design
incorporated lessons of experience, especially those of other countries that had tackled the
same issues during the emergency crisis.

Understandably the emergency crisis demanded a quick response and a simple design,
otherwise the project of this size and scope could have considered long-term
sustainability measures, particularly in a context dominated by poverty and
vulnerability. However, it would have been worthwhile to introduce some measures of
sustainability while keeping the design simple. Considering Yemen’s history with conflicts
and political tensions, a one-time intervention was not going to mitigate the crisis, and
further interventions—short and long term—were going to be necessary to sustain the
outcomes. While the Government was interested in the idea of cash transfers and wanted
to avail the opportunity, the onus was on the Bank to gear some efforts towards
sustainability for delivering such a huge amount, including putting in place institutional
support measures and beneficiary/stakeholder engagement mechanisms. The project team
solely relied on ISP support to fill the gap without realizing that ISP also faced other issues
and was just beginning to solidify its support and technical assistance on other aspects of
systems building.

Nonetheless, considering the team’s rapid and proactive response, the choice of an
appropriate design, and the selected implementing agency & arrangements, the team’s
performance for preparation can be rated “satisfactory”.

(b) Quality of supervision: Rating – “Moderately Satisfactory”

As the project moved into supervision, the Bank seemed insufficiently resourced to help
the client for the scope and nature of an emergency operation. As noted earlier, there were
delays in the first six months on basic implementation readiness aspects pertaining to
system-related glitches and delays related to submission of withdrawal application, which
are not unusual and could have been avoided through intense follow-up and hands-on
engagement. Several aspects pertaining to Bank’s moderate performance were noted from
the ISRs, Aide Memoires and verbal interviews with SWF staff. It was noted that: (i) the
Bank fell short of mobilizing day-to-day support due to rotating task managers; (ii) initial
optimism about the project’s prospects was not supported by stronger action by the Bank
during the implementation; (iii) the size and quality of the Bank support was not at par with
the challenges that the client was facing; and (iv) in some cases, the Bank responded too
late to urgent requests, especially related to financial management issues faced by the client,
and follow up on the monitoring and evaluation activities. The project implementing
agency expected the Bank to gear up expertize and efforts to influence MOF in releasing
the funds on time for the project activities

In addition to the drawn-out supervision support, there were also lags on Bank’s part
in verifying the beneficiary list and/or putting efforts into confirming the eligibility
and timely payments. There was little effort or thinking devoted to how the beneficiary
list was constructed and finalized for final distribution of the cash benefits. The Bank team
relied solely on the audit report that only provided financial accounting but did not provide



                                             20
any confirmation on whether or not these beneficiaries were eligible and had received the
benefits on time. Eventually, the Bank team was not able to help with the timely launch of
the beneficiary assessment due to some lag on the Bank side in following up early on the
design and procurement processes, and some issues related to finding the appropriate
agency to conduct the assessment given the security risks. Due to the significant delays,
the beneficiary assessment was financed and implemented through the ISP.

(c) Justification of rating for overall Bank performance: Rating – “Moderately
Satisfactory”

The Bank’s proactive response, an exceptionally fast preparation of the project, and the
appropriated design of the first cash-transfer pilot in Yemen earned a rating of
“satisfactory”. But due to protracted implementation support and lack of hands-on
approach to tackle the fiduciary, monitoring, and beneficiary assessment issues, the overall
rating for Bank performance was assessed at the closing as “moderately satisfactory”.

   5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government performance: Rating – “Moderately Satisfactory”

The Government’s performance was rated “moderately satisfactory”. While during
preparation, the Bank benefitted from Government’s steadfast commitment and support
from MOF for the project and SWF, during implementation, MOF’s performance was
below satisfactory and there were challenges. The major issue was related to the
availability of funds and financial management capacity of MOF. Under the project, the
Government through MOF was responsible for paying the cash assistance grants from their
budget to SWF and then SWF requested reimbursement through the project’s designated
account.

The failure of MOF to comply with the agreed arrangement further substantiates
“moderately satisfactory” performance. Due to MOF’s delayed transfer of grant funds on
a number of occasions together with Bank’s inability to resolve the financial issues early
on, the project faced significant delays in its first 4 to 6 months. Several payments were
missed over time and resulted into delayed payments to the beneficiaries. As per SWF
personnel, the Bank could have leveraged their support and influence to expedite the
process at MOF, and saw this as a missed opportunity for the Bank.

(b) Implementing agency or agencies performance: Rating – “Satisfactory”

The implementing agency’s performance is rated at “satisfactory” considering their
efforts to deliver on targets despite enormous delays posed by MOF in releasing the
funds and less than expeditious support from the Bank. It was noted that the SWF
implemented the project on a learn-by-doing basis and continually identified solutions to
deliver benefits in this emergency situation. Continuous consultations with payment
agencies (i.e., Post Office), and provision of security of transfers were illustrative of SWF’s
commitment to achieving the intended purpose of the emergency response.



                                              21
Through the implementation, SWF continued to focus on building its capacity
through ISP in conjunction with preparing for delivery of benefits in both crisis and
non-crisis situations. Despite low wages, the staff showed a commitment and motivation
to receive training. The lack of human capacity building poses a sustainability risk; but
under ISP, it was agreed that the Government contribution could be used for incentives for
these staff.

However, it is worth noting that some of the challenges that SWF faced above were
also due to absence of SWF leadership for almost a year, whereby the project was
solely managed by one or two staff. During the absence of the managing director, the
project was managed by only couple of staff with little or no guidance from within the
institution.

Overall, even in the face of all the implementation and financial issues, SWF managed
to deliver a fully disbursed project. The World Bank was reliant on SWF to deliver the
project during this emergency crisis. The success of the project was largely due to the
ongoing SWF efforts in improving targeting, putting in place a data reconciliation system,
and strengthening their local implementation apparatus. The SWF now possesses the
largest database of 1.5 million poor households. Its improved design of PMT-based
targeting and verification process is unique in the country.

(c) Justification of rating for overall borrower performance: Rating – “Moderately
Satisfactory”

The overall performance of the Borrower is mixed and thus rated “Moderately
Satisfactory”. Government’s (MOF) weak and unsteady support resulted into
implementation lags, irregular payments to the beneficiaries which raised the
unpredictability of the benefits, lack of timely reconciliation, FM issues and delayed launch
of beneficiary assessment survey. The lack of timely beneficiary assessment affected ICR
teams' ability to analyze the results on the ground. On the other hand, SWF’s own efforts
and solid commitment to the project helped achieve the targets despite their inadequate
capacity and absence of leadership for almost the entire project period.

6. Lessons Learned

a) Focus on programmatic approach with continuous institutional building in order to
   hit the ground running when crisis occurs. Clearly without continuous ISP support,
   SWF could not be considered a reliable agency for undertaking this enormous task. The
   SWF was selected for three main reasons: (a) ability to reach large numbers of poor
   through improved targeting; (b) possessing the largest database on poor; and (c) having
   in place the implementation apparatus and adequate systems to deliver benefits in time
   of an emergency. All three aspects were supported through ISP. Even during the project
   implementation, all challenges pertaining to cleaning up beneficiary lists, targeting,
   data reconciliation, system glitches, beneficiary survey, and more were addressed
   through ISP support. It will be critical for the Bank to not lose sight of the bigger picture


                                              22
   and overall sustainability of SWF as an institution while delivering the benefits in the
   short run.

b) Design cash transfers that respond to the underlying conditions of the country
   context. Yemen’s geographical conditions are treacherous and unique in the Region.
   While the project benefitted from lessons of experience and ongoing ISP support, the
   operational trade-offs and administrative procedures should have been capable of
   responding to the local conditions. Inadequate attention was given to the delays in
   payments, lack of alternative payment distribution mechanisms in remote locations,
   and readiness of local organizations (or payment agents). When planning for the
   upcoming and similar projects, it will be important to consider more than one
   mechanism for payment delivery, to put in place mechanisms vigorous enough to
   protect the funds, and to organize local awareness-raising events to familiarize the
   potential beneficiaries of their rights to these cash benefits.

c) Take into consideration the knowledge, skill, and capacity constraints of the staff
   working at the implementing agencies. The knowledge, skill, and capacity for project
   preparation by the Government and the Bank are on two different scales. Government
   generally needs longer to fulfill the project requirements; it adversely affects the
   preparation and implementation process when the Bank pushes too hard to finish the
   preparation without enough time for sorting out details with the Government. The
   Government was concerned that the project was pushed too hard on them and not
   enough consideration was given to meeting the pre-effectiveness conditions, getting
   commitment on the counterpart funding, M&E aspects, and clarity on various aspects
   of financial obligations and procedures (e.g., lack of clarity on retroactive financing led
   to big deduction on the first payment).

d) Practice restraint, to the extent possible, in changing task management in middle of
   implementation. The optimism of task team leaders can vary throughout the process
   and change the dynamics of the project. The Government expressed concern that in the
   beginning of the implementation process, the Bank team leader was enthusiastic about
   turning this opportunity into a development model for reducing poverty, but overtime
   this enthusiasm faded. Moreover, the initial plan to conduct an extensive impact
   evaluation study also fell through the cracks. At the end, not much attention was paid
   to even launch a simple beneficiary assessment.

e) Make impact studies a core part of such large cash-transfer program, regardless of
   emergency situation. It is not sufficient to just deliver cash. The Government expressed
   concern of the fact that the cash benefits may not be utilized for the intended purposes
   and may not be making much development impact on the beneficiaries. The Bank team
   did not push hard for beneficiary assessment or designing the impact study, thus it is
   hard to reconcile beyond the objective of distributing cash. With another upcoming
   unconditional cash-transfer project, it is critical to consult with the Government and
   ensure that funds are allocated for an impact study and efforts are made early to prepare
   for it.




                                             23
f) Ensure government contributions are committed during negotiations. The project
   suffered throughout, especially in the first 6 months, due to delayed funds transfer from
   MOF. The project team was highly concerned with regard to the lack of funds from
   MOF upfront before the project negotiation.

g) Be prepared to provide hands-on and sustained World Bank support. Beyond any
   crisis and without continuous and steady support, the road is long and treacherous for
   SWF to become a fully reliable and efficient national cash-transfer system. Experiences
   from rapid responses undertaken during the global financial crisis and emergency
   support operations emphasize the importance of sustained implementation support
   from the World Bank. Much of the delayed payments and unanticipated issues could
   have been avoided through intensive, hands-on, and sustained technical and fiduciary
   implementation support (e.g., those relating to withdrawal application processing,
   verification of payments, and eligibility of expenditures).

h) Launch awareness campaigns for beneficiaries in remote, rural, and urban areas. A
   wide-ranging campaign should be launched to sync with the distribution and collection
   of payments in such a fashion to raise awareness among beneficiaries on how to best
   collect their benefits. The SWF is making efforts to scale up the engagement of Post
   Offices in governorates where distribution and collection problems are high. In
   addition, Post Offices have started to link or contract with local exchange shops to
   transfer the cash benefits. Moreover, sufficient attention should be paid to local
   consultations, beneficiary needs, and communication between stakeholders and the
   program. Assumptions should not be made on the needs of beneficiaries. Local
   engagement is critical to ensure that the size, timing, and scope of benefit will be
   responsive to the needs of potential beneficiaries and will help impact their lives
   positively.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Social Welfare Fund (implementing agency) submitted an “end-of-project” progress report
with main focus on the lesson learnt. SWF believe that the project was successful in
achieving its outcomes and appreciated overall World Bank’s support. The main lessons
presented by SWF are as follows and have been incorporated in the report: (i) taking into
consideration national procedures for project approval in the cabinet to avoid delays once
the timeline is agreed between the Bank and the Government; (ii) agreeing on Government
contribution at the negotiations stage and before the project is signed; (iii) increasing World
Bank technical and fiduciary management support throughout the project implementation;
(iv) avoiding change of World Bank task team leadership in the midst of the project; (v)
putting in place a comprehensive communication strategy for a project to ensure that the
beneficiaries are aware of their rights and show up to receive their benefits on time; and
(vi) setting up grievance system which is critical for ensuring sustainability and beneficiary
satisfaction.




                                              24
(b) Co-financiers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g., NGOs, private sector, civil society)

Not applicable




                                          25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

      (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                         Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage           of
Components                                               Estimate
                                      (US$ millions)                                 Appraisal1
                                                         (US$ millions)1
    Component 1. Cash assistance       99.80              97.10                       97.78
    Component 2. Monitoring and
                                 0.20                          0.10                   50.0
       Evaluation

Total Baseline Cost                             100.00         97.20                 97.88
Government Financing                              2.00         0.00                  0.00
Total Project Costs                             102.00         97.20                 95.95
Total Financing Required                        102.00         97.20                 95.95


(b) Financing
                                                Appraisal              Actual/Latest
                                  Type       of                                              Percentage of
Source of Funds                                 Estimate               Estimate
                                  Cofinancing                                                Appraisal1
                                                (US$ millions)         (US$ millions)1
    Borrower                      N/A           2.00                   0.00                  0.00
    IDA Grant                     N/A           100.00                 97.20                 97.88
1
 /The project currency is in XDR, thus resulting in exchange rate fluctuation with US$, which is reflected in
the calculations of the Actual/Latest Estimate and Percentage of Appraisal figures.




                                                    26
Annex 2. Outputs by Components

                 PDO-Level              Results
                                                  Baseline                    Result        at
                 Indicators                                  Target
                                                                              Closing
                 PDO Indicator One: Number
                 households receiving cash -                 400,000          400,000
                 transfers through the project
                 PDO Indicator Two: Number                   2.4 million 2.4       million
                 of direct project beneficiaries -           beneficiaries beneficiaries
                 (of which % female)                         (50% female) (52% female)


      Intermediate Results Indicators (by Component)
      Intermediate Result
      (Component 1)
      Intermediate Result –
      Indicator One Amount of
      grant    transferred    to Number    37.12             85.82            85.96         99.8
      beneficiaries        (US$
      million)
      Intermediate Result –                                                   FS        3
                                            FS 1 submitted   FS 2 submitted                 FS         4
      Indicator Two: Timely                                                   submitted
                                           by March 31,      by May15, 2013                 submitted by
      submission of financial                                                 by August
                                 Text      2013                                             November
      statements          for                                                 15, 2013
                                                                                            15, 2013
      reimbursement of cash
                                           ACTUAL:           ACTUAL:
      transfers                                                               ACTUAL:
                                                                                            ACTUAL:
                                                                              MR        3
                                           MR 1 submitted    MR 2 submitted   submitted
      Intermediate Result –
                                           by May 31,        by August 31,    by Nov 30,
      Indicator Three: Timely
                                 Text      2013              2013             2013
      submission of Monitoring
      Reports
                                           ACTUAL:           ACTUAL:          ACTUAL:




                                                       27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not Applicable




                                      28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                    Responsibility/
Names                     Title                             Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Kamel Braham              Sr. Education Specialist          MNSHE   TTL
Wilfried Engelke          Sr. Economist                     MNSED   Country Economist
Mira Hong                 Operations Officer                MNSSP   Operations
Moad Alrubaidi            Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM   FM
Saleh Qasem Al-Manary     Financial Management Analyst      MNAFM   FM
Jamal Abdulla Abdulaziz   Sr. Procurement Specialist        MNAPC   Procurement
Samira Al-Harithi         Procurement Analyst               MNAPC   Procurement
Nikolai Soubbotin         Sr. Counsel                       LEGAM   Lawyer
Hassine Hedda             Finance Officer                   CTRLA   Loans
Eric Ranjeva              Finance Officer                   CTRLA   Loans
Alaa Mahmoud Hamed        Sr. Health Specialist             MNSHH   Health Specialist
Ali Ahmed Al-Mudhwahi     Sr. Health Specialist             MNSHH   Health Specialist
Lire Ersado               Sr. Economist                     MNSSP   SP Economist
Ali Ali Hassan Salamah    Program Assistant                 MNCYE   Admin and client
                                                                    support
Rania Atieh               Consultant                        MNSHD   SP Specialist
Amir Mokhtar Althibah     Temporary                         MNSED   Admin and client
                                                                    support
Elena Gagieva-Petrova     Sr. Program Assistant             MNSHD   Operations support
Emma Etori                Program Assistant                 MNSHE   Operations support
Supervision/ICR
Kamel Braham              Sr. Education Specialist          MNSHE TTL
Lire Ersado               Sr. Economist                     GSPDR TTL
Mira Hong                 Operations Officer                GSPDR Co-TTL
Moad Alrubaidi            Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM FM
Saleh Qasem Al-Manary     Financial Management Analyst      MNAFM FM
Jamal Abdulla Abdulaziz   Sr. Procurement Specialist        MNAPC Procurement
Samira Al-Harithi         Procurement Analyst               MNAPC Procurement
Eric Ranjeva              Finance Officer                   CTRLA Loans
Khalid Ben Brahim         Finance Analyst                   CTRLA Loans
Safa’a Alsharif           Program Assistant                 MNCYE Admin and client
                                                                  support
Iqbal Kaur                Sr. SP Specialist                 GSPDR ICR Author
Elena Gagieva-Petrova     Operations Analyst                GHNDR Operations support
Khalid Moheyddeen         SP Specialist                     GSPDR Implementation
                                                                  support




                                          29
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                              US$ ‘000 (including travel
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                    and consultant costs)
Lending total             19.00                     153,313

Supervision/ICR total     17.75                     92,679




                                   30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The Beneficiary Assessment was only initiated in November 2014 and the final report is
not due until January 2015. The project closed on June 30th, 2014; hence the BA is now
financed from the ongoing ISP project.




                                         31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                     32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Government’s input was received on November 5th, 2014. The report mainly
presented the facts in terms of disbursements with very little qualitative assessment of the
achievements. The reports highlighted the lessons learnt as follows:

   1. Project Effectiveness: The project effectiveness was delayed by 4 months. This
      was due to the fact that some of the pre-conditions for effectiveness related to the
      national procedures were not met. It is advisable that in future the national
      procedures and context are taken into consideration before finalizing the timeline
      for project processing.

   2. Government Contribution Budget:                The implementation of the ECRG
      monitoring and evaluation plan was completely ignored due to the lack of funding.
      In fact, (during the project negotiations), the Minister of Finance confirmed that the
      budget for the M & E action plan will be covered by the Government Contribution
      Budget. However, when SWF submitted the request along with the M&E action
      plan, MOF rejected the request and refused to pay for it. Therefore, it is highly
      recommended to cover all the main activities of future projects directly from project
      budget and use the government contribution budget for covering small activities.

   3. Delay of Payments to SWF Target Beneficiaries: The disbursement to the ECRG
      target beneficiaries did not follow the schedule. In fact, the disbursement for the
      1st quarter of 2013 took place in May 2013 instead of March 2013. The
      disbursement for the 2nd and 3rd quarter took place in Aug-Sep 2013.

   4. Project Support Team (PST) Performance: The performance of the PST Finance
      Team was not up to expectations due to the lack of experience in operating WB
      Client Connection System which led to great delay in submission of the withdrawal
      requests to IDA. The first withdrawal request was submitted to IDA in June 2013
      instead of February 2013, the 2nd withdrawal request was submitted in September
      2013 instead of June 30th and the 3rd withdrawal request was submitted to IDA in
      July 2014. It is highly recommended that the PST finance team receive proper
      training in respect to using the WB Client Connection System before project ’s
      effectiveness.

   5. Change of the WB TTL during Project Implementation: The TTL of the ECRG
      was replaced by another TTL during the project implementation which caused a lot
      of confusion especially in respect to launching the ECRG Beneficiary Satisfaction
      Assessment. In fact, more than a year was spent in finalizing the TOR which was
      caused by change in task team leadership in midst of the process. Thus, it is
      recommended to avoid any change in the technical teams of future projects
      especially during the middle of project implementation.




                                            33
6. SWF Communication Strategy: During the implementation of this project, the
   SWF management realized the importance of having a solid communication
   strategy and the need to establish formal communication channels with its
   beneficiaries. Almost all SWF beneficiaries learnt about the SWF activities such as
   the start date for disbursement of their benefits through informal communication
   channels and from other beneficiaries.

7. SWF Grievance System: The SWF management realized the need for establishing
   an efficient grievance system that documents and responds to the complaints and
   the appeals of its beneficiaries.




                                       34
      Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                     35
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank ECRP Project Appraisal Document, Report no. 74451-YE, January 31, 2013.

Financing Agreement between Republic of Yemen and IDA, Grant no. H827-RY.

Project Agreement between IDA and Social Welfare Fund, Grant no. H827-RY.

Interim Strategy Note for Republic of Yemen FY13-14, Report #70943.

World Bank Aide-Memoire for the Implementation Support Missions, April 2013,
February 2014, May 2014.

World Bank Implementation Status and Results Reports.

Project Financial Statement and Independent Auditor's Reports.

Project Progress Reports.


From Borrower:
Implementation Completion Report, Social Welfare Fund, dated November 5, 2014




                                          36
MAP




      37
