 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14715

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/20/2015

               Country: Yemen, Republic of
             Project ID: P133811                                                   Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Emergency Crisis             Project Costs (US$M):                     102.0                97.2
                         Recovery Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      100.0                97.2
      Sector Board:        Social Protection          Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  02/14/2013
                                                                Closing Date:            06/30/2014           06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Other social services (79%); General education sector (10%); Health (10%); Public
                           administration- Other social services (1%)
         Theme(s):         Social safety nets (50%); Nutrition and food security (30%); Education for all (10%); Child
                           health (10%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Hjalte S. A. Sederlof      Denise A. Vaillancourt Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project development objective (PDO) in the Credit Agreement and the Project Paper was to assist the
    Recipient in mitigating the impact of the 2011 crisis by providing cash benefits to eligible poor households.



b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    Component 1 (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 101.80 million; actual cost US$ 97.10 million). This component
    was to provide cash benefits of US$ 10-20 per household per month to about 400,000 eligible poor households
    over a fifteen month period.
    Component 2 (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 0.20 million; actual cost US$ 0.10 million). This component was
    to support project monitoring and evaluation, and the external audit.

    The components underwent no changes during implementation.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    Project costs. Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$ 102.0 million. Actual costs at project
    closing were US$ 97.20 million, reflecting a reduction in incremental recurrent costs.

    Project financing. The Bank disbursed SDR 65.06 million (99 percent of the Grant amount) with SDR 0.04 million
   not disbursed.
   Borrower contribution. The Borrower contribution was initially estimated at US$ 2.0 million in incremental
   recurrent costs under the project to reimburse the payment agency (the Post Office) for its services. This was
   redefined as part of another project - the Institutional Support Project to the implementing agency, the Social
   Welfare Fund (SWF).
   Dates. The project was approved on February 14, 2013, it became effective on May 8, 2013 and closed on time,
   on June 30, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   Relevance of objectives is rated high.
   The PDO was directly relevant to the Government’s efforts to mitigate the immediate consumption effects on poor
   households of a series of climatic, economic and political shocks that had raised the poverty rate from 43 percent
   in 2009 to 55 percent in 2012, increasing pressures on Yemen’s cash benefit system. Fiscal policies were geared
   towards containing a rising fiscal deficit, following a 13 month halt to oil production, and the public expenditure
   program was already struggling to address numerous domestic (security) and international (food and oil price
   rises) risks. There were few domestic resources available to meet the rising demands for social assistance. As a
   consequence, while the Government’s Transition Plan for Stabilization and Development (TPSD) emphasized
   short-term humanitarian, recovery and reconstruction support, the fragile fiscal situation forced he Government to
   turn to foreign donors, including the Bank, in first addressing immediate needs. The Bank responded positively:
   this was in line with the Bank’s interim country strategy (FY13-FY14) to address the aftermath of the crisis,
   including protecting critical social expenditures, especially for the poor.


b. Relevance of Design:


   Relevance of design is rated substantial.
   The project was to provide relief to eligible poor families through the country’s Social Welfare Fund (SWF), an
   agency that had experience with unconditional cash transfers. The SWF was already receiving technical
   assistance to increase its operational capacity under an Institutional Support Project (P117608). This included
   the development of a proxy means test (PMT) for better targeting of poor beneficiaries, as well as support for
   project monitoring. The 400,000 households included in the project were selected using the PMT. In choosing a
   cash transfer mechanism, project designers drew on the positive experience with cash benefit schemes
   elsewhere as a cost effective, straightforward and rapid means of supporting consumption levels and patterns
   among poor and vulnerable households. The introduction of even modest amounts of predictable cash support
   (in this case varying between $10-20 per household per month) has proven to be important, as they introduce
   predictability into the household income stream, and strengthen the scope for household budget planning, even
   in a crisis. The results framework included key process indicators on service delivery performance (transfers). In
   consideration of the short-trm emergency nature of the project, it did not include outcome indicators. Instead, a
   beneficiary assessment was to be undertaken towards the end of the project to provide information on the effect
   of the transfer on beneficiary households. However, the introduction of additional process/performance
   indicators into the results framework, such as timeliness of payments and grievances, could have offered a fuller
   picture of project implementation.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The PDO was to assist the Recipient in mitigating the impact of the 2011 crisis by providing cash benefits to
   eligible poor households.
    Achievement of the PDO is rated substantial.
   In the result framework, achievement of the PDO was measured by service delivery:

      Grants totaling US$ 97.10 million were transferred to beneficiary households, compared to a target of US$
   99.8 million
       394,000 households (2.35 million beneficiaries) received cash transfers through the project, compared to a
    target of 400,000 households (2.4 million beneficiaries)
     52 percent of beneficiaries were women, compared to a target of 50 percent
    While these outputs were largely met, they by themselves are insufficient to determine whether the project
    contributed to “mitigating the impact of the 2011 crisis”. However, the subsequent beneficiary assessment does
    confirm that the cash benefits did mitigate the effects of the crisis on beneficiary households, when compared to
    non-beneficiary ones. That said, the lumpy payment schedule may have reduced some of the efficacy that could
    have been achieved with a more predictable payment stream that might have allowed beneficiaries to practice
    more effective income smoothing. Efficacy is therefore rated substantial.


5. Efficiency:

    Efficiency is rated substantial.

    No rates of return were estimated for the project. As noted in section 2b, cash benefit schemes are generally
    recognized as cost effective mechanisms for responding to short-term shocks; and using an existing agency was
    an efficient way to implement the project. Moreover, the project achieved its PDO on time and without cost
    overruns. At the same time, some of the benefits of unconditional cash transfers may have been weakened by
    the slow release of funds by the Ministry of Finance and the unpredictable and irregular receipt of funds by
    beneficiaries (ICR p. 23).



 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                                                                   %                                     %

    ICR estimate                                                                %                                     %
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the PDO is rated high, as the PDO responded to urgent short-term concerns of the government to
address sharply increasing poverty, and the Bank’s strategy of improving access to safety nets and protecting critical
social expenditures. Relevance of design is rated substantial, reflecting a basically strong design, albeit with some
weakness in the results framework. Achievement of objectives is rated substantial based on the evidence included in
the beneficiary assessment. Efficiency is rated substantial, noting the appropriate intervention model, its results, and
timely completion without cost overruns.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Sustainability of intended project outcomes – positive consumption and asset building effects on targeted poor
    beneficiaries - is in the short to medium term dependent on continued donor support and a gradual upswing in the
    economy, as well as political stability. A follow-up operation has been prepared by the Bank, and the Bank has
    been active in mobilizing further donor support for the safety net. However, the political uncertainties that
    accompany the recently heightened conflict point to an uncertain future for this activity, at least for some time to
    come. Until the situation clears, the risk to the development outcome is high.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was relevant in that it addressed a priority need for urgent short-term assistance. The design
    reflected the urgency: the Bank team chose an effective tool for quick delivery of assistance, an unconditional
    cash transfer, and used an existing agency, the SWF, to deliver the transfer. The introduction of PMT
    sharpened the poverty focus of the tool, and it helped introduce a positive gender element (female headed
    households were likely to be among the most vulnerable households and ones most likely to use resources
    for vital consumption and investment needs). Reflecting the urgency of the situation, the team appropriately
    applied OP 8.00 (Emergency Recovery Assistance Procedures). The project became effective in three
    months, indicating readiness and Government commitment. In view of the short-term nature of the
    intervention, the results framework focused on outputs; a beneficiary assessment was also included to
    determine project impact. The risk assessment signaled weaknesses in governance, institutional capacity
    and fiduciary management in the SWF, and the team looked to the ongoing Institutional Support Project, as
    well as donor support, to help address the risks. That risk mitigation strategy was partially successful,
    although process-related problems would arise during implementation, especially relating to monitoring and
    evaluation. The ICR (pp. 17 and 26) indicates the absence of insistence on an up-front commitment of
    Government funds going into the project as a factor that subsequently would delay funds transfers, as well as
    adversely affect the monitoring system.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project disbursed all the moneys on time, met its output targets, and achieved its objective of mitigating
the effects of the crisis. At the same time, it did encounter implementation challenges that the supervision team
was not able to resolve: timely delivery of payments, and reconciliation of payments, which would persist through
much of the project. Here, the ICR, in its discussion of the quality of supervision (ICR pp 22, 23), points to the
need for more hands-on support in implementation.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    With cash transfers to the poor a national priority, and external shocks rapidly increasing poverty, the
government was committed to the project objective. And it participated actively in project preparation through the
Ministry of Finance. Government support was less strong during implementation, and did contribute to the delays
in payment of cash benefits, and limited monitoring.


   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    While the SWF had experience in operating cash benefit programs, it did not have the capacity to do so in light
of the requirements for rigor posed by the Bank. Even with assistance through the Institutional Support Project
and support from the EU, and a project support team, the SWF resources would turn out to be stretched. Still, it
was pro-active, finding solutions to process bottlenecks in collaboration with the payment agency, and managed to
deliver an almost fully disbursed project within the project period.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    Project monitoring and evaluation focused on the delivery of cash benefits to the eligible households. This was to
    include monitoring of process indicators, and field-level spot checks to ensure eligibility of recipient households,
    as well as correct receipt of funds and a follow-up mechanism on late payments. Here, capacity building was to
    be provided by the Institutional Support Project. A beneficiary assessment was to be conducted towards the end
    of the project to determine the effects of the project on the well-being of recipient households.


b. M&E Implementation:

    Implementation of M&E would be limited to monitoring process indicators on the basis of audit reports,
    reconciliation between records in SWF and the payment agency, and the beneficiary assessment. While
    reconciliation took place with delays and field-level audits did not take place (ICR, p.7), M&E allowed the
    essential payment process to be monitored.

 c. M&E Utilization:
      Monitoring information was used to follow disbursement of funds and reconciliation, although adequacy and
effectiveness of reconciliation processes remained unclear throughout implementation.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
No safeguard policies were triggered.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial management. All financial covenants were complied with; and the IDA credit was fully disbursed by
    closing. All audit reports were submitted on time with unqualified audit opinions.
    Procurement. Procurement guidelines were followed. However, procurement relating to the beneficiary
    assessment was significantly delayed, from March to September, 2014; consequently, the results were not
    available to be incorporated into the ICR. The Bank’s supervision team was not able to solve this issue in a
    timely way.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:




12. Ratings:                             ICR                  IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                    Outcome: Satisfactory              Satisfactory

         Risk to Development Significant               High                    IEG considers that current political
                    Outcome:                                                   uncertainties make the risk to the
                                                                               development outcome, and in particular
                                                                               sustainability of the process, high.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory             Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The following lessons are formulated by the evaluator, based on the ICR:
    In fragile environments , strong institution -building support is essential when scaling up to meet an
    emergency. While the agency of choice may have the capacity that allows it to operate under normal
    circumstances, it may not have the resources to cope with a shock to the system. SWF proved not to have the
    resilience to take on an intense cash transfer process without the support provided by the ISP (and the EU),
    and even then, capacity was strained.

    Even emergency operations require a rigorous capacity assessment . The urgency with which an intervention
    is needed should not override good design. Expecting to address and solve issues during implementation may
    prove to be much more challenging and time- and resource consuming than during preparation. The
    preparation team did not sufficiently focus on such relatively complex challenges as monitoring and evaluation
    during preparation, leaving it up to the ISP to address them. This did not work well.

    Maintain continuity of staff in emergency projects . Maintaining continuity of staff is always advisable, but
    especially so when implementing under timetables of emergency – there may be much less time to understand
    issues and build relationships than under a regular operation.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


   While the ICR provides description and some analysis of implementation processes, it suffers from having been
   issued prior to the beneficiary assessment. Some of the key issues that did arise - notably payment delays and
   their implications - are not sufficiently clarified, and sometimes there also appears to be a disconnect between the
   conclusions that one can draw from the text and the ratings. The presentation could have been more focused,
   important elements are scattered throughout the text. It also included a few unclear points: (i) it never explained
   the change in the Government contribution; (ii) its basic data sheet erroneously indicated that transfers of
   benefits totaled US$ 85 million; and (iii) the basic data sheet indicated only one TTL during implementation, while
   in fact there were three. The document is consistent with the guidelines, but with 26 pages, it is on the lengthy
   side.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
