The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4389-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
TNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 43.2 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
NINTH POWER PROJECT
September 24, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipicnts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Sri Lanka Rupee
US$1.00          =    SL Rs 27.4
SL Re 1          -    US$0.0365
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMP         -  Accelerated Mahaweli Program
CEB         -  Ceylon Electricity Board
DDRB        -  Distribution Development and
Rehabilitation Branch
ECT         -  Energy Coordinating Team
kgoe        -  Kilogram of Oil Equivalent
LECO        -  Lanka Electric Company
LRMC        -  Long-Run Marginal Cost
WTP         -  Willingness to Pay
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
NINTH POWER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summarv
Borrower         :  Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiary      :  Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB)
Amount           :  SDR 43.2 million (US$52.0 million equivalent)
Terms            :  Standard
Relending Terms  :  The Government would relend the credit proceeds to CEB
at an interest rate of 10 percent per annum, repayable
over 20 years including 5 years grace. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project          :  The proposed project seeks to improve the reliability
Description        and quality of power supply, reduce losses to more
reasonable levels, and expand the distribution system
to meet forecast demand for electricity. The proposed
project is a four-year slice of Ceylon Electricity
Board's distribution rehabilitation and expansion
program, and the project comprises the erection of about
950 km of 33-kV lines, extension and rehabilitation of
low-voltage distribution networks, and technical
assistance. Although delays in implementation could
arise because of the wide geographical area covered
and the many interfaces with the existing network, this
risk has been minimized by providing consultants for
project management, clearly identifying responsibilities
in supply and erect contracts, and providing for the
early appointment of other essential consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: a/
Local   Foreign   Total
…--   US$ million------
Main 33-kV lines                  11.7       18.3      30.0
Other MV Networks                  5.0        9.5      14.5
Rationalization of LV Networks   3.7          3.8       7.5
Colombo City Network               7.9        9.9      17.8
Network Rehabilitation             2.7        4.8       7.5
Consultancy, Project Manage-
ment, & Training                 1.4        4.3       5.7
Total Baseline Costs            32.4       50.6      83.0
Physical Contingencies             3.2        5.1       8.3
Price Contingencies                7.5        9.3      10.9
Total Project Costs             43.1       65.0    108.1
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   TotaL
-----US$ million------
IDA                                 -        52.0      52.0
ODA                                 -        13.0      13.0
CEB                               43.1        -        43.1
43.1      65.0    108.1
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA               FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
Annual             1       12     15      13      7       4
Cumulative         1       13     28      41     48      52
Economic Rate
of Return:          11 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 6032-CE, dated September 17, 1986
Maps:                 IBRD 19433
IBRD 19434
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$16.0 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
DEHOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A NINTH POWER PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka for SDR 43.2
million (US$52.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
ninth power project. The Government would relend the credit proceeds to the
Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) at an interest rate of 10 percent per annum,
repayable over 20 years including 5 years of grace. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk. Cofinancing has been arranged with ODA for
a grant of US$13.0 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      A country economic memorandum, "Sri Lanka:  Current Economic
Situation and Outlook" (Report No. 6176-CE, dated May 13, 1986) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 16, 1986. Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.      At independence in 1948, Sri Lanka was one of the most affluent
developing countries in Asia. Its per capita CDP was equivalent to that
of Korea while the school enrollment ratio, adult literacy ratio, and life
expectancy at birth, were comparable to those of the most-developed Asian
countries. At the root of Sri Lanka's relatively high income levels and high
standards of living was a highly productive export sector (tea, rubber and
coconut); food distribution programs; and social services designed to reach
even the poorest segments of society.
4.      Shortly after independence, the Government decided to lead the
development process and to allocate resources according to Government estab-
lished priorities. Industrialization based on import substitution was seen
as the country's major priority and dictated the course of policies until
1977.  To accelerate the process of industrialization, the Government set
up enterprises to produce a wide range of basic inputs and consumer goods.
Investments in industry were financed through taxation of agriculture, both
11 Recently updated to reflect the findings of a February 1986 economic
mission.



-2-
explicitly, through export taxes and, implicitly, through a chronic over-
valuation of the exchange rate, price controls on agricultural products, and
preferential allocations of foreign exchange to industry. The more general
objective of allocating resources according to Government-established
priorities led to numerous economic regulations and direct state
interventions.  Economic regulations were particularly restrictive in the
foreign sector where recurrent shortages of foreign exchange led over time
to the development of a complex system of quota restrictions, import
prohibitions, multiple exchange rates, and foreign exchange controls. Direct
state interventions took place through the creation of several public
enterprises in a wide range of sectors.  In addition to industry, the state
became a major producer and employer in such fields as industry, transport,
banking and insurance, internal and external trade. The large private
estates producing most of the tea and a substantial portion of the rubber and
coconut were nationalized. Gradually, the role of market forces in the
economy became negligible and the role of the state all-pervasive.
5.      By the mid 1970s, the cost of these policies became evident, as Sri
Lanka's economic performance lagged behind that of other Asian countries and
the country began to lose the gains it had made in terms of living standards.
Heavy taxation of agriculture of Sri Lanka's internationally most competitive
sector) large subsidies for industries whose efficiency was unclear, and
growing state interventions, eroded the sources of the economy's dynamism and
introduced pronounced disequilibrium. First, the taxation of agriculture led
to a stagnation of agricultural exports and to a decline in per capita food
production (of 15 percent between 1960 and 1976) while the newly created
industrial sector, then responsible for 20 percent of GDP, was heavily
dependent on imported equipment, spare parts and inputs. Shortages of for-
eign exchange became a chronic problem. Second, the welfare and social
services designed when the economy was thriving, became an enormous burden in
the context of a sluggish economy. In 1976, direct food subsidies accounted
for 3 percent of GDP and 17 percent of government expenditures. Finally, the
private sector was crowded out by the public sector enterprises. These
enterprises benefited from protection from imports, along with fiscal and
credit advantages that diverted resources away from the private sector and
retarded its development.
6.      A dramatic reversal in policies took place in 1977 when the new
Government changed the philosophy of economic management that for two decades
had dominated decision making. The new Government's poLicy was to limit the
role of the state in the economy and increase that of the private sector,
and, more generally, to increase the role of market forces in the allocation
of resources. Sweeping deregulations affected all sectors of the economy.
Price controls were eliminated, barriers to entry in industry were removed,
foreign investment was encouraged; domestic trade was opened to the private
sector and financial markets were liberalized. Deregulation was particularly
noteworthy in the foreign sector. Quota restrictions were replaced by
tariffs, the multiple exchange rate system was replaced by a managed float,
the new exchange rate was set at a reaListic level, and controls on foreign
exchange transactions were eased considerably.



-3-
7.      The new policies broughc about a remarkable improvement in economic
performance. The GDP growth rate, at only 3 percent per annum during
1970-77, increased to close to 7 percent in 1978-80 and remained at 5 percent
in 1981-85. The liberalization of prices in agriculture and the removal of
barriers restricting the entry of private traders is one of the main factors
explaining Sri Lanka's success in reducing imports of rice by increasing
domestic production. Rice production grew at 5.7 percent, on the average,
during 1978-85. Rice imports, which were over 30 percent of rice consumption
during 1970-77, declined gradually to less than 5 percent in 1984-85. The
liberalization of the external sector led to a diversification of the sources
of Sri Lanka foreign exchange earnings. Tourism, also encouraged by generous
tax incentives, boomed. Tourist arrivals increased from 150,000 in 1977 to
400,000 in 1982; a 20 percent annual growth rate in real terms. (However,
due to ethnic disturbances, arrivals have declined to 320,000 in 1983/84 and
260,000 in 1985.) A second new source of foreign exchange earnings were
exports of garments which increased from a negligible amount prior to
liberalization in 1977, to US$300 million in 1985, out of total exports of
US$1.5 billion.
8.      The international aid community strongly supported the 1977 economic
liberalization. Aid commitments doubled after 1977 and were, on the average,
at about 12 percent of GDP in 1978/85. Moreover, the reestablishment of Sri
Lanka's credit standing in international capital markets after 1977 allowed
the country to borrow on commercial terms. This increased access to foreign
savings made possible the major expansion in investment levels which took
place since 1977. Total domestic investment as a share of GDP increased from
14 percent in 1977 to 22 percent in 1978-79, 34 percent in 1980, and 28
percent during 1981/85. The share of public investment in GDP jumped from
6 percent in 1977 to an average of 14 percent in 1978/79 and a peak of 21
percent in 1980. The public investment program centered on three major
initiatives: (a) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga
Development Program, the largest multipurpose river basin development program
ever undertaken in Sri Lanka; (b) establishment of a free trade zone to
attract foreign investors; (c) institution of a massive hcusing and urban
renewal program focussing mainly in the Colombo metropolitan region, includ-
ing the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo.
Private investment concentrated in agriculture in response to the improved
incenti e framework; in the financial sector, where the new more liberal
economic regime attracted numerous foreign banks; in the transport sector,
which had for long been a state monopoly; and in the establishment of
industries in the free trade zone.
'-.     Macroeconomic stability, however, suffered during this process.  With
foreign savings easily available, the domestic resource mobilization effort
slackened. The overall public sector deficit accounted for some 15 percent
of GDP, on the average, during 1978-85, and the exchange rate tended to
appreciate (in relation to 1978, this appreciation had reached 30 percent by
mid-1985), leading to recurrent large current account deficits in the balance
of payments (11 percent, on the average during 1978/85) and to an increase in



-4-
the foreign debt, from US$1.4 billion (including short-term debt, private
non-guaranteed debt, and the IMF) in 1978, to US$3.4 billion in 1985, equiv-
alent to 58 percent of GDP in 1985. Moreover, as the expansion of exports
lagged behind that of the rest of the economy, partly because of the orienta-
tion of the public investment program and partly because of the appreciation
of the exchange rate, the debt service ratio increased from 13 percent in
1978 to more than 20 percent by the mid-1980s and it is expected to rise even
further in the next few years, in spite of the concessional terms under which
the debt was contracted. Additional pressures have been put on the economy
by the ethnic conflict which has been escalating since 1983. The increased
milita:y expenditures that the conflict has required have put new claims on
the budget and made it more difficult to increase the level of domestic
savings.
10.     In addition to the macroeconomic imbalances, the process of
liberaLization has had two other shortcomings. First, liberalization did not
reach the public sector enterprises. While, since 1977, some few chronically
loss-making public enterprises have been closed down, the bulk of public
sector enterprises has remained untouched and continues to be a burden on the
economy. Second, the development of an export industry has been limited to
garments while, because of relatively high levels of protection, the rest of
the industrial sector has been encouraged to produce for the domestic market
rather than for exports.
11.     Achieving a better balance between investment and savings, increasing
public sector enterprise efficiency, and the competitiveness of the
industrial sector are the prime policy objectives for Sri Lanka. To improve
the balance between investment and savings, the Government will need to
reduce the public sector deficit through a combination of increased revenues,
and reduced current and capital expenditures. Improving the competitiveness
of public sector enterprise is a complex and important task which will
require a profound reform of existing institutions. Public sector
enterprises account for some 30 percent of the GDP, and are a heavy burden
on the economy because of high protection from external competition,
administered prices for their products, and their monopolistic or quasi-
monopolistic position. Increasing the competitiveness of the industrial
sector will require a further restructuring of the economy towards exports
rather than producing for the very limited domestic market and the adiption
of a more flexible foreign exchange policy.
12.     The Government has recently taken, or announced its intention to
take, some of the actions indicated above. First, the 1986 budget aims at
reducing the fiscal deficit from 14 percent of GDP to 10 percent. Measures
to achieve this objective include higher levels of taxation and a reduction
of transfers to inefficient public sector enterprises. Public investment has
already been reduced in relation to the high levels it had reached in the
early 1980s and the current public investment program is being reviewed in
order to scale it down. Second, an extensive study of the public sector
enterprises has recently begun, with a view to identifying measures leading
to an increase in their efficiency. Finally, a first revision of the tariff



-5-
system took place in late 1984, where disparities in effective protection
were substantially reduced and a new Presidential Tariff Commission is now in
charge of reviewing the existing tariff system and make recommendations for
further improvements. Furthermore, the foreign exchange policy has become
more flexible and the domestic currency was devalued by some 15 percent in
real terms during 1985.
13.     At the end of 1985, the external public debt outstanding and dis-
bursed stood at an estimated US$3.4 billion, over 70 percent of which is on
concessional terms. The debt service ratio has been increasing in the 1980s
and was at 22 percent in 1985 (including IMF charges and repurchases).
Assuming that the Government's efforts to contain the budget deficit and
imports in the forthcoming years are successful, the current account deficit
should decline to approximately 5 percent towards the end of the decade, and
the debt service ratio, after temporarily rising to 30 percent in 1987
because of existing debt repayment commitments, should begin to decline from
1988 onwards. Nonetheless, the Government will need to monitor carefully the
level and terms of external borrowing to ensure that the country maintains a
satisfactory external payments position.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the World
Bank has approved 12 loans totaling US$183.7 million (net of cancellations)
and 38 credits totaling US$753.2 million (net of cancellations) in support of
47 projects. About 53 percent of World Bank assistance has been for agricul-
ture (irrigation, tree crops, and rural and dairy development), 17 percent
for power, 10 percent for transportation, and the remainder of 20 percent
among development finance company operations, a program credit (involving the
import of raw materials for industry), water supply, construction industry
training, and telecommunications. Eight loans and 16 credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of World Bank Group opera-
tions as of March 31, 1986.
15.     In Sri Lanka, the IFC has a total investment of US$2.13 million
equivalent in equity and US$18.69 million equivalent in loans as of March 31,
1986. Investments have been made so far in two textiles industries, one
polypropylene bag industry, one equipment-leasing company, one hoteL, and two
IFC lines of credit, one of which has been extended to the government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for term loans to medium-sized industries.
16.     A central element of the WorLd Bank Group's current strategy in Sri
Lanka is the achievement of a more sustainable balance-of-payments position
in the medium term through export ptumotion and import substitution in viable
economic activities. The Bank Group's macroeconomic and sectoraL analyses of
the Sri Lankan economy indicate that achieving and maintaining external
equilibrium in the context of a growing economy require major policy changes
in several areas: investment priorities should be assessed more carefully



-6-
than in the past; the system of economic incentives should become more
consistent; the role of the public sector in manufacturing activities should
be limited to clearly established priority areas; and cost recovery should be
seen as complementary to, rather than conflicting with, greater equity in
distribution.
17.     Within the above framework, the Bank's lending program has been
concentrating resources on directly productive sectors, such as agriculture
and industry, and in support of energy and transport infrastructure. In
agriculture, Bank Group strategy had given until recently the highest
priority to the expansion of paddy production and to rehabilitation of the
vital tree crops subsector, activities in which Sri Lanka has a comparative
advantage. WhiLe these activities will retain their importance, the probable
attainment of self-sufficiency in rice in the near future and the uncertain
prospects of tree crops in international markets suggest that the lending
program should extend its support in the future also to new programs aimed at
expanding the production of other important agricultural products for local
consumption and, possibly, local processing for exports.
18.     The World Bank has also provided financing for a broad range of
large-, medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the
private sector, through support of industrial development finance
institutions. Future lending in the sector would continue this support,
focusing on firms with export potential. It would also capitalize on the
conclusions of technical assistance financed through past operations to
provide support for improvement in trade and incentive policies, and for
increasing the efficiency of public enterprises, in the context of one or
more sectoral operations.
19.     The Government's priority to rehabilitate rundown infrastructure and
expand the capacity of existing capital stock by high priority new invest-
ments is well placed and necessary in order to support expanded economic
activity, particularly in the private sector. Major elements of the lending
program would be directed at heLping to meet the energy needs of the economy
and at easing transport bottlenecks. The World Bank has provided financing
to a number of power projects for generation, transmission and distribution.
The thrust of future operations would be decided on the basis of a comprehen-
sive assessment of investment needs in all three areas. However, given that
the majority of high yielding sources of energy in Sri Lanka have been util-
ized already, it is envisaged that the future program would accord relative
priority to energy conservation rather than generation, through both required
investments and policy measures. The old and inefficient power distribution
system would be rehabilitated to reduce system losses; small but significant
improvements in energy conservation would be undertaken in large energy
consuming industrial/comercial units; and a study is underway to recommend
measures to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector, a large con-
sumer of commercial energy in Sri Lanka. Support to the transport sector
would continue with rehabilitation and upgrading of the road network,
institutionalizing proper maintenance methods and improving sectoral planning
of policies and programs.



-7-
20.     Institutional capabilities, at both the planning and implementation
levels, have been strained by the recent rapid expansion of public
investment. Continuing emphasis would be placed on project components
supporting institution building, human resources development, business and
industrial management, and public administration.
21.     The World Bank's development of a coherent lending program for Sri
Lanka, and its continuous dialogue regarding the specific elements of the
program and policies necessary for increasing the program's effectiveness,
have been accompanied by firm support for a substantial transfer of resources
to Sri Lanka. The main grounds for this support have been the need to offset
the deterioration in the world trade environment; the achievement of a high
and sustained growth rate; and the tightness of the Government's budgetary
situation as increased operational and maintenance requirements make demands
on domestic resources.
22.     The World Bank Group, as of the end of 1985, accounted for 13 percent
(IBRD, 1.6 percent; IDA, 11.4 percent) of Sri Lanka's total debt (including
private non-guaranteed and short term debt and IMF) outstanding and disbursed
and 3.5 percent of the total debt service (including interest on short-term
and IMF charges).
PART III - ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources and Consumption
23.     Sri Lanka has few indigenous energy resources.  There are no known
hydrocarbon reserves, but a modest petroleum exploration program is underway.
The major indigenous energy resources are hydropower and fuelwood. The
hydropower potential is estimated to b-- about 2,000 MW, with an energy
potential, under average hydrological conditions, of about 5,800 CWh a year.
The major hydropower resources are concentrated in the southern half of the
country in basically five river systems: Mahaweli Ganga, Kelani Canga, Kalu
Canga, Nihwala Canga and Walawa Ganga. The centerpiece of hydropower
development has been the Accelerated Mahaweli Program (AMP), which will add
533 MW (Victoria, 210 KW; Kotmale 201,MW; and Randenigala, 122 MW) to Ceylon
Electricity Board's (CEB) installed capacity by 1988. The lack of detailed
knowledge of the remaining hydropower potential and technically feasible
developments is one of the major constraints affecting hydropower development
in the country. This issue is being addressed in a study of hydropower
potential under financing by the Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany through the Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (CTZ). The
study was initiated in April 1986.
24.     At present, fuelwood is estimated to supply about 55 percent of
Sri Lanka's gross energy supply. However, incremental wood production
from the natural regeneration of forests, agricultural residues and rubber
replanting, etc., is estimated to be less than half of the annual consumption



-8-
of fuelvood (about five million tons). Deforestation will increase the
demand for commercial energy, with the substitution of petroleum products for
fuelwood. This could result in a substantial increase in the fuel import
bill. The Government is aware of these issues and agrees that a key element
in their resolution would be a large and comprehensive reforestation program.
A forestry Master Plan in being prepared as part of the Bank-assisted
Forestry I Project (Credit 1317-CE). Reforestation programs, under which
the Government is pLanning to treble both the acreage and density of tree
planting, are being developed within the context of ongoing United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) and Asian Development Bank (ADB)
assisted fuelwood projects.  When completed, the USAID project aims at
providing between 10 and 15 percent of the country's fuelwood requirements.
Efforts to improve the supply of fuelvood are being complemented by action on
the demand side to encourage the use of more fuel-efficient woodstoves. A
new woodstove has been developed under the auspices of the energy conserva-
tion task force, and the Government is promoting its use through a demonstra-
tion program and by providing incentives to consumers to acquire the new
woodstove.
25.     Per capita consumption cf commercial energy in Sri Lanka is about
145 kgoe per annum, just over 50 percent of the average for the low-income
countries. Total per capita consumption of energy is about 240 kgoe per
annum, about 65 percent of which is supplied by non-commercial energy, prin-
cipally fuelwood, about 30 percent by petroleum products and 5 percent by
hydropower. Energy consumption has been growing relatively slowly. Between
1973 and 1983 total energy consumption increased at the average annual rate
of about 2.5 percent, compared with 3.4 percent for commercial energy, and an
annual growth rate of 5.2 percent for real CDP. Thus the ODP energy elas-
ticity was relatively low at only about 0.5 during the period 1973-1983.
The Covernment's Strategy in the Energy Sector
26.     The Government's energy strategy includes measures that address both
the demand and supply of energy. On the demand side, The Government has been
promoting energy conservation and the reduction of waste, and has been
encouraging the efficient use and allocation of energy resources by relating
energy prices to their economic costs of supply. On the supply side, par-
ticular emphasis has been placed on substituting imported petroleum products
with indigenous resources, principally hydropower. Other major objectives
being pursued by the government in the energy sector include: (a) improving
the quality and reliability of electricity supply and efficiency in the
operation of the power system; and (b) improving efficiency of use and
increasing the availability of renewable resources to meet the growing demand
for energy in rural areas. In line with the priority given to energy
development, about 13 percent of the public investment program for 1985-89 is
allocated to projects in the power subsector.



-9-
Energy Pricing
27.     Until 1978, for social and political reasons, energy prices did not
reflect the economic costs of supply. Since then, however, petroleum product
prices have been generally set at or above border price levels. In July 1983
the price of kerosene was increased by about 27 percent to the border price
level following the elimination of the generaL subsidy on kerosene. The
purchasing power of low-income households was protected by the simultaneous
increase in the value of kerosene stamps, which are provided to about half of
the population. CEB's electricity tariffs have been raised several times in
recent years, most recently in March 1985. During the period 1978-1985,
average revenue per kWh, including the fuel adjustment charge, increased at
the average annual rate of about 46 percent, representing an average annual
increase in real terms of 26 perceni. The increases in tariff rates were
accompanied by significant changes to the tariff structure in accordance with
the principles of long-run marginal cost (LRKC) pricing. Thus, the declining
block tariff for domestic consumers was replaced by an increasing block
tariff, including a lifeline rate to enable low income consumers to afford
the electricity required to meet their basic needs. The 1978 tariff revision
included provision for a fuel adjustment charge, which was activated for the
first time in February 1980. CEB agreed under the Sixth Power Project
(Credit 1048-CE) to carry out a tariff study based on LRMC, to implement any
agreed recommendations, and to update the study periodically. A study was
undertaken in 1981 and a revised tariff was introduced in June 1982. The
study was updated in 1984 and revised tariffs were introduced in March 1985.
The tariff increases have continuously narrowed the gap between average
revenue per kWh and estimated LRMC. The average revenue per kWh, which is
set to meet CEB's financial objectives, is estimated to be about 80 percent
of LRMC, compared with less than 70 percent in 1984 before the latest tariff
increase. The 1985 tariff structure includes separate energy and demand
charges for hotel, industrial and general purpose consumers with contract
demands exceeding 40 KVA, and optional time of day energy rates for
industrial and hotel consumers. The tariff for domestic consumers includes
a lifeline rate for consumption below 30 kWhlmonth.
Organization and Management
28.     Until late 1982, a major institutional constraint was the relatively
large number of ministries and line agencies involved in the different energy
subsectors, and the lack of effective coordination between them. The
Government initiated a major institutional reform in October 1982 when it
created an Energy Coordinating Team (ECT) in the Ministry of Power and
Energy. The main purpose of ECT is coordinating the work of the relevant
ministries and line agencies to prevent duplication, with its attendant waste
of resources and time delays. ECT consists primarily of three coordinating
task forces, covering energy planning, energy conservation and renewable
energy, and their support staff. In September 1985, the Secretary, Ministry
of Power and Energy, was appointed to manage ECT. Energy policy coordination
was also strengthened in 1984 by the transfer of the Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation from the Ministry of Industries to the Ministry of Power and



-10-
Energy, and in 1983 by the creation of Lanka Electric Company (LECO), to take
over gradually local authority distribution systems.
Organization of the Power Subsector
29.     CEB, the beneficiary, is a statutory corporation established by the
CEB Act, No. 17 of 1969 (1969 CEB Act). It is responsible for the generation
and transmission of electricity throughout Sri Lanka, and for distribution
except in those areas where distribution systems are operated by licensees
(local authorities) and, since 1984, Lanka Electric Company (Private)
Limited (LECO). CEB's original organizational structure was designed by
Urwick International Ltd. (United Kingdom), management consultants, in the
early 1970s under Loan 636-CE. In 1981, CEB again retained the services of
these consultants under the Sixth Power Project (Credit 1048-CE) to reexamine
its organizational structure, since the existing structure was considered to
be inappropriate for its enlarged size and responsibilities. Urwick recom-
mended a decentralized organization, which was agreed by CEB and implementa-
tion began in January 1984. However, implementation of the new organization
has proceeded more slowly than expected, and consequently many of the new
management systems are operating only partially. In an effort to expedite
implementation, CEB requested the consultants to prepare detailed procedures
for the new organization, provide systems training to selected staff, and
prepare manuals for systems operations for alL CEB's activities. The
finalization of these manuals has proceeded sLowly and some of the manuals
are still in the draft stage. Thus some of the major benefits anticipated
from the reorganization exercise have not materialized, and CEB is still
operating many systems under the old procedures. In recognition of this
problem, CEB extended its contract with Urwick International Ltd. to assist
in monitoring the implementation of the new procedures. Full implementation
of the new organizational structure and the finalization of the associated
operating manuals is considered to be an important step in strengthening
CEB, and is required to enable it to manage operations and investments
efficiently, including the proposed project. Therefore, in order to ensure
that CEB's organizational structure does not hinder its development as a
modern utility, the completion of its restructuring as approved by CEB's
Board of Directors in September 1982, and completion and distribution of all
related operational and functional manuals are conditions of credit
effectiveness.
30.     The new organizational structure is concerned with improving the
efficiency of CEB given its present functions. Under the existing organiza-
tion of the power subsector, CEE is directly responsible for about 80 percent
of total sales at the distribution level, with licensees (local authorities)
being responsible for the other 20 percent. Until early 1985 there were 218
licensees, but that number is being reduced gradually as LECO, which the
Government formed in September 1983 in an effort to address the deterioration
in the quality of service at the distribution level, takes over the distribu-
tion systems operated by licensees. LECO has so far taken over 5 licensees
and has identified another 15 to be taken over in the near future. The
Government's policy for the reorganization of electricity distribution is



-11-
supported by both the Bank Group and the ADB. The latter is supporting LECO
through its Secondary Towns Distribution Project.
31.     A major defect with the current arrangements to reorganize the sub-
sector is that LECO, in taking over licensees, does not achieve a viable
consumer mix; in particular it has a preponderance of domestic consumers and
insufficient high-voltage consumers. In addition, the long-term takeover of
all licensees by LECO would lead to a fragmented area of operations due to
the geographic separation of many licensees. The solution to this problem
may involve LECO taking over both the licensees and consumers served by CEB
in areas contiguous to those now served, or to be served in the future, by
LEGO. In recognition of the issues posed by licensees, LECO has commissioned
the development of a Master Plan which will suggest a framework for its
future development and determine the investment required to rehabilitate the
distribution systems of licensees. This Master Plan (the draft of which was
submitted to LECO in June 1986) will be complemented by a similar plan for
the distribution systems operated by CEB, and the two plans incegrated to
provide an overall plan to rationalize electricity distribution in Sri Lanka.
The resources required to rehabilitate licensees' distribution systems, in
order to facilitate their takeover by either CEB or LECO, could be the sub-
ject of future Bank Group operations. CEB would prepare and submit to the
Bank Group for review by July 31, 1988, a master plan for the development of
distribution systems in Sri Lanka; and the Government would formulate, and
begin to implement by October 31, 1988, a dated and moonitorable program to
rationalize the institutional arrangements for the distribution of
electricity.
Existing Facilities
32.     CEB's total installed generating capacity increased at the average
annual rate of about 10 percent in the period 1975-85. In December 1985 it
was 949 MW, comprising 679 MW hydroelectric plant (including 210 MW at
Victoria and 134 MW at Kotmale, the first stations commissioned under the
Accelerated Mahaweli Program), and 270 MW thermal plant. In 1985 total
energy generated by CEB's power plants was 2,464 GWh. The major generating
stations and load centers are interconnected by a 132-kV transmission grid.
Under the Seventh (Mahaweli Transmission) Power Project (Credit 1210-CE),
220-kV lines are being constructed with planned completion in late 1986 to
meet larger transmission capacities required to transmit the increasing
Mahaweli hydropower capacity to the Colombo area. The transmission network
is, generally, in good condition.  The subtransmission system comprises about
7,800 km of 33-kY lines, about 2,500 km of 11-kV lines and about 5,000 con-
sumer substations. The physical condition of the distribution networks is
generally unsatisfactory, partly because many of the networks are overloaded
as a result of the large increase in the number of consumers in recent years
and partly as a result of poor maintenance. The project would upgrade the
physical condition of the distribution networks and provide training for
linesmen. This needs to be complemented by the implementation of a dated
program for the planned maintenance of its thermal and hydropower generating
facilities and upgrading the plant maintenance systems. CEB would submit to



-12-
the Association by November 30, 1986, the maintenance program for its gener-
ating facilities for 1987. The implementation of this program would be
monitored during supervision. CEB would also employ consultants to review by
December 31, 1987, the plant maintenance systems at the Sepugaskanda diesel
power station and thereafter review the maintenance systems at other thermal
generating stations based on the experience gained.
33..    In January 1986, the total number of consumers served by CEB was
about 395,000, including about 336,000 residential consumers and about
51,000 commercial consumers. Another 290,000 consumers are served by local
authorities which are licensed to distribute electricity and receive bulk
supplies from CEB. Overall, an estimated 10 percent of the population
receives electricity supply.
CEB's Development Program
34.     Generation planning for CEB's interconnected system is carried out
by its Generation and Transmission Planning Department using the computer-
based WASP-III optimization model. CEB has an annual generation expansion
planning cycle; this begins with the preparation of the load forecast by the
commercial branch in July and is followed in August/September by the prepara-
tion of the least-cost generation expansion plan using WASP-Ill. This plan
is integrated with the transmission and distribution expansion plans, and the
resultant aggregated plan is used by the finance department for the prepara-
tion of CEB's annual financial plan. CEB's latest expansion plan has been
reviewed by the Bank Group and found to be satisfactory. CEB and the
Government have also agreed to annually update and review with the
Association the long-term development plan of the Board. Total installed
capacity is projected to increase from about 950 MW in 1985 to about 1250 MW
in 1990 and about 1700 MW in 1995. Hydropower projects under construction or
firmly planned include: extensions at Canyon (1x30 MW) and Kotmale (1x67 MW)
to be commissioned in 1987 and 1988 respectively, the commissioning of the
Randenigala project (122 MW) in 1987, to be followed by Rantambe (49 MW) in
1990, Samanalawewa (120 MW) in 1991, and Broadlands (20 MW) in 1992. Thermal
projects include: rehabilitation of the Kelanitissa oil-fired plant (50 MW)
in 1989, and construction of the proposed Trincomalee coal-fired station,
with the first unit (150 MW) being commissioned in 1993. With the exception
of the Trincomalee and Broadlands projects, financing has been secured or is
being negotiated for all of these projects. The completion of this program
as planned would enable CEB to meet its load forecast at its planned quality
of service.
35.     Transmission planning is the responsibility of the transmission
planning branch in the Generation and Transmission Planning Department.
Planned major transmission works include lines to connect the projected
generating facilities at Rantambe, Samanalawewa and Trincomalee with the load
centers. The former lines are expected to be 220-kV, while the major lines
from Trincomalee are expected to be 400-kV. CEB also plans to extend and
reinforce the 132-kY transmission system, and replace overloaded power trans-
formers with larger ones at 132-kV substations.



-13-
36.     The planning of subtransmission and distribution projects has
recently been strengthened by the establishment of the Distribution
Development and Rehabilitation Branch (DDRB) of the Transmission and
Generation Project Department. The development of the subtransmission/
distribution systems has not kept pace with the rapidly increasing demand;
consequently losses are excessively high, voltage drop often exceeds the
original design levels, and the number of outages has increased. The project
addresses these issues.
Bank Group Involvement in the Energy Sector
37.     The objectives of the Bank Group's assistance in the power subsector
have been determined in the course of a continuing dialogue with the
Government on its strategy for the development of the energy sector.
Assistance has been and is aimed at supporting efforts to: (a) meet the
forecast demand for electricity at least cost through the development of an
appropriate mix of generating plants and the development of efficient trans-
mission and distribution systems; (b) assist in institution building and
strengthen the financial management of CEB through the provision of consult-
ing services and training for CEB staff; (c) rationalize the consumption of
energy through the reform of tariff structures and setting tariff rates based
on the costs to Sri Lanka of meeting consumers' demands for electricity; and
gd) increase resource mobilization in the power subsector by setting
appropriate financial objectives for CEB and controlling accounts receivable.
Although progress has been made in all of these areas, further improvements
are necessary. In particular, additional efforts are needed to: (a) reduce
losses in transmission and distribution; (b) reinforce and extend transmis-
sion systems to supply new consumers and improve the quality of supply; and
Cc) further strengthen the management and staffing of CEB by improving the
conditions of service and through training.  These issues are addressed by
the proposed project.
38.     To date the Bank Group has supported the development of the energy
sector through eight operations in the power subsector, involving five loans
and three credits.  The amount of Bank Group funds committed through these
operations totals US$166.7 million, representing about 17 percent of total
Bank Group resources committed to Sri Lanka up to December 31, 1985.  The
Bank Group's involvement with Sri Lanka's power subsector began in 1954 when
a loan of US$19.1 million (Loan 101-CE) was made to help finance a 25 MW
expansion of the Aberdeen-Laksapana hydroelectric scheme.  Since then the
Bank Group has continued to be actively involved in providing the resources
needed for the development of the subsector, in terms of both its capacity to
meet demand at least cost and institutional reforms. Of the eight projects,
six have been completed satisfactorily and two (Power VI, Credit 1048-CE, and
Power VII, Credit 1210-CE) are underway. These two projects have proceeded
slowly because of a number of difficulties, including civil unrest and the
limited capability of CEB's management to cope with the ever growing workload
associated with the increasing size and complexity of the power system.
(Insights gained during the implementation of the sixth, seventh and eighth



-14-
projects, in particular, have contributed in a number of valuable ways to the
design of the project.) This constraint was apparent before Power VI was
approved in 1980. Consequently the Bank Group financed consultants' studies
of CEB's management and organization under the Sixth Power Project
(Credit 1048-CE). The consultants recommended a new organizational structure
to make CEE more responsive to the requirements of a greatly expanded system.
Their recommendations were accepted and CEB is implementing the suggested
reorganization, which involves its decentralization. Although much remains
to be done, particularly in staffing, the Bank Group agrees that the new
organization provides an adequate operational framework and will enable CEB
to be more responsive to the requirements of a greatly expanded supply
system.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.     The proposed project was appraised in October 1985.  A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Sri Lanka - Ninth (Distribution Expansion and
Rehabilitation) Power Project (No. 6032-CE, dated September 17, 1986) is
being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from August 25, 1986. The government delegation was led by Prof. K.K.Y.W.
Perera.
Project Objectives
40.     The principal objectives of the project are:  to improve the
reliability and quality of power supply; reduce technical losses; expand the
distribution system and improve CEB's capability to construct and maintain
its distribution system. In addition, the project would assist CEB in
developing a more appropriate balance between generation, transmission and
distribution facilities in order to meet the forecast demand at least cost.
Project Description
41.     The project would consist of the following components:
(a) construction of about 250 km of double circuit and about 550 km of single
circuit 33-kV main distribution lines; (b) construction of about 150 km of
single circuit 33-kV lines, about 50 km of single circuit 11-kV lines, and
about 50 33-kV switching stations; installation of about 50 MVAR of
capacitors; and conversion of about 500 km of 11-kV lines; (c) installation
of about 1,200 33-kV/LV and about 300 11-kV/LV distribution transformer
stations and transformers, and the conversion of about 200 km of LV lines to
three phase; (d) construction of one 33-kV/11-kV and about 125 11-kV/LV
substations, the installation of about 15 km of 33-kV, 120 km of 11-kV and
12.5 km of low voltage cables for the underground network in Colombo;
(e) line materials, vehicles, tools and instruments to rehabilitate the
existing low voltage network; and (f) consulting services for detailed
engineering, project management, project accounting and training in modern
methods for the construction and maintenance of the distribution systems.



-15-
Project Cost
42.     The estimated total cost, in mid 1986 prices, of the project includ-
ing price and physical contingencies, duties and taxes is US$108.1 million.
This comprises US$65.0 million in foreign exchange, US$16.0 million in taxes
and duties and US$27.1 million in local costs. Physical contingencies of 10
percent are assumed for equipment, materials and services on the basis of
previous experience with similar projects in the region and are considered to
be adequate. Price contingencies for foreign costs are assumed at 7.0 per-
cent for FY86 and FY87, 7.5 percent for FY88, 7.7 percent for FY89, 7.6
percent for FY90, and 4.5 percent thereafter. Price contingencies for local
costs are assumed at 10 percent for FY86 and FY87, 9 percent for FY88, B
percent for FY89, 7.6 percent for FY90, and 4.5 percent thereafter. Total
price contingencies amount to 18 percent of base cost including physical
contingencies.
Financing Plan
43.     The financing plan involves US$43.1 million in local costs and
US$65.0 million in foreign exchange. Local costs would be financed by CEB
from internal sources. The foreign exchange cost would be covered by IDA
financing of up to US$52.0 million, and cofinancing of about US$13.0 million.
The Government has approached the UK Overseas Development Administration
(ODA) to cofinance the Colombo City network component of the project. ODA
has appraised this part of the project and expects to present the project to
its project committee by October 31, 1986, and to obtain ministerial approval
shortly thereafter. The fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the ODA grant is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Onlending Terms
44.     The Government would relend the proceeds of the proposed credit to
CEB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Government and CEB under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The term of
onlending would be 20 years (including 5 years of grace) and an interest rate
of 10 percent a year. The conclusion of the subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and CEB is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Project Execution
45.     The project comprises four components:  (a) expansion of CEB's 33-kV
system and reinforcement of the Colombo City network; (b) rehabilitation of
the main MV and LV distribution systems; (c) development and introduction of
updated design standards and construction guidelines for the distribution
system; and (d) introduction of improved work methods and planning techniques
for construction and maintenance of the distribution system and training of
CES's staff in the use of these methods and techniques. Implementation of
the project would be a major undertaking for CEB, since it exceeds CEB's
in-house capabilities. Consequently, considerable outside assistance would



-16-
be required. CEB would, therefore, engage consultants satisfactory to IDA to
assist in project implementation. The project implementation schedule
requires that the bidding documents for the 33-kV lines should be ready by
October 1986. In order to adhere to this schedule, in February 1986, with
IDA's concurrence CEB appointed the consultant (Ewbank Preece, UK) presently
engaged under the Seventh Power Project (Credit 1210-CE) for engineering and
preparation of bid documents for the main 33-kY lines and rehabilitation of
the Colombo City distribution system. Ewbank Preece's cost would be financed
from the credit. CEB has agreed to appoint consultants, satisfactory to IDA
to: prepare bidding documents (excluding main 33-kV lines and Colombo City
distribution system); prepare design standards and construction guidelines
for the distribution system; and to manage the project. These would be
financed from the credit. The appointment of the consultants for preparation
of bidding documents, design standards, construction guidelines, and project
management would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
46.     Project implementation within CEB would be supervised by the
Distribution Development and Rehabilitation Branch (DDRB) under the
Additional General Manager (Projects). DDRB would supervise the work of the
consultants, provide counterpart staff to be trained in the design and
management of distribution projects, and coordinate project implementation
within CEB. DDRB is being strengthened in order to undertake these functions
effectively. With the exception of rehabilitation of the LV network, supply
and erect contracts would be used to expedite project implementation and
facilitate work coordination. CEB would implement rehabilitation work under
force account, since it is highly dispersed and involves close coordination
with the operation of the existing distribution system. However, the plan-
ning and work methods presently used by CEB for the construction and main-
tenance of the distribution system are inadequate, and must be improved to
increase staff efficiency. In recognition of this situation, CEB has agreed
to engage an operating power utility as a consultant to assist in the intro-
duction of, and train CEB's force account staff in the use of, improved work
methods and planning techniques for the construction and maintenance of the
distribution system. The appointment of a consultant to assist CEB in the
introduction of improved work methods and planning techniques for the con-
struction and maintenance of the distribution system would be a condition
of credit effectiveness.
47.     Construction of the project would be completed by June 30. 1991.
The project involves a large number of activities which would proceed
concurrently. A major portion of line construction would occur using supply
and erect contracts, which would be won by a contractor with adequate
resources and experience of similar work. The proposed schedule is,
therefore, considered to be realistic.
Implementing Agency
48.     CEB's management consists of a seven-member board, all of whom are
appointed by the Minister of Power and Energy. The Chairman is appointed
from among the board members, and is responsible through the board for policy



-17-
matters and close liaison with the Government. The General Manager is CEB's
Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for the overall direction and
control of CEB's day-to-day business. Although conceived as a semi-
autonomous corporate entity, in practice CEB's management has limited
autonomy in some key areas. Not only has the Government retained respon-
sibility for policy formulation concerning the development of the power
subsector, but its influence extends to such functional matters as the
setting of salary levels and procurement.
49.     CEB is considerably overstaffed.  In January 1986, it had about
12,500 staff and served about 395,000 consumers, representing a
consumer/employee ratio of about 32:1. Although it is very low, the ratio
represents a considerable improvement over the 1975 ratio of 13:1. CEB's
manpower policy is to limit the recruitment of new staff and to improve staff
productivity through appropriate training at its proposed new training
school. This policy is expected to improve the consumer/employee ratio to
about 43:1 in 1990. The projected improvements in staff productivity would
be assisted by the training components of the project, which would increase
CEB's capability to design, plan and manage the construction of distribution
projects and maintain the distribution system. Although CEB is overstaffed,
in recent years it has had difficuLty in retaining experienced engineers and
accountants, which has caused a shortage of key personnel. The principal
reason for this is the Government's conditions of service which generally
limit total monthly remuneration. However, CEB does have some room to
maneuver through the payment of productivity and other bonuses up to the
equivalent of one month's salary a year. Keeping in view both CEB's manpower
needs and the Government-imposed ceiling on remuneration, CEB agreed to
submit to the Association by June 30, 1987 and to put into effect not later
than December 31, 1987, a scheme of incentives and a promotion policy based
on merit and other appropriate factors. In order to develop a medium-term
strategy for its manpower development CEB would by December 31, 1987, submit
to the Association its projected staffing levels and numbers for the period
1987 to 1989.



- 18-~
Procurement
50.     Procurement arrangements in millions of US dollars would be as shown
below:
Procurement Method /b
ICB     LCB    Other   N.A.   Total
1. Main 33-kV lines                         38.6      -       -             38.6
(22.3)                          (22.3)
2. Other MV network, rationalization        19.3      -       -             19.3
(12.1)                          (12.1)
3. Rehabilitation of Colombo City                     -
network                                                 23.2            23.2
4. Rationalization of LV networks           10.0      -       -              10.0
(6.2)                           (6.2)
5. Rehabilitation of LV network              4.8      -              2.1     6.9
(4.1)                           (4.1)
6. Vehicles, tools, instruments              2.6                             2.6
(1.8)                           (1.8)
Consultants, Training                              -      5.5             5.5
(5.5)           (5.5)
Administration                          _2.0                              2.0
Total                       75.3            30.7    2.1   108.1
(46.5)           (5.5)          (52.0)
/a  The figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts which would be
financed by the Association.
/b  ICB--International competitive bidding.
LCB--Local competitive bidding.
Other--Direct negotiation or not subject to commercial procurement
(e.g. land acquisition, owner's expenses). Rehabilitation of the
Colombo City network is expected to be financed by ODA (UK). The
procurement of equipment and materials would probably be limited to
UK suppliers.
N.A.--Force account.
Procurement of equipment and works for the 33-kV lines, MV network
rationalization and rehabilitation of Colombo City network would be grouped
in different supply and erect packages. All other equipment and materials
would be procured through supply contracts. All equipment and materials
financed by the Association would be subject to international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. As a result, about
70 percent of the total procurement for the project would be through ICB.



-19-
Documents for individual contracts exceeding US$200,000 would be subject to
the Association's prior review. Local suppliers and manufacturers competing
for the supply of goods under ICB would have a preference of 15 percent or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is less. Consultants for project
engineering, project management and training would be selected and employed
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The planned schedule for procure-
ment of equipment and material to be financed from the proposed credit is:
(a) first bid invitation--November 1986; (b) first bid opening--February
1987; and (c) first award decision--June 1987.
Disbursements
51.     Disbursements from the proposed credit would be made against 100
percent of foreign expenditure or 100 percent of ex-factory price (if
manufactured in Sri Lanka) of cost of equipment, material and erection serv-
ices procured under ICB, and 100 percent of the cost of consultancy. The
proposed credit would be disbursed over six fiscal years, and the closing
date would be June 30, 1992. The Bank Group's standard profile of nine years
for transmission and distribution projects is not applicable to the project,
for two reasons: (a) the standard profile is predominantly weighted by
projects involving the construction of extra high voltage transmission lines
rather than the expansion and rehabilitation of distribution systems; and
(b) the project would be implemented through a number of contracts proceeding
in parallel. Retroactive financing would be permitted up to US$1.0 million
on account of payments made for expenditures after January 1, 1986, but
before credit signing.
Project Special Account
52.     A special account of SDR 4.2 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
is proposed for the project, representing about four months of estimated
expenditures. The Special Account would be replenished based on the required
documentation for eligible expenditures and would be operated in accordance
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
System Losses
53.     Losses, as a percentage of gross generation, on CEB's supply system
increased from 10.5 percent in 1975 to a peak of 19.6 percent in 1981 and
then declined to about 17.0 percent in 1985. Most of the losses (about seven
percentage points) occur in the 33-kV subtransmission system. In 1983, the
problem of losses was studied by the UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program (ESMAP), and following that study CEB established a Loss
Reduction Cell {LRC) to address the problem. The principal cause of the high
losses is underinvestment in medium and low voltage distribution lines,
resulting in overloading and poor voltage conditions, and low power factors.
The ESMAP report identified a number of measures to reduce technical losses.
These have been included in the project. Although dated loss reduction
programs have not been formulated, it is anticipated that the implementation
of the measures included in the project would reduce system losses from about



-20-
18 percent of gross generation in 1986 to about 12 percent in 1994. Losses
are also high in the distribution systems operated by local authorities
(licensees) and in 1985 were about 25 percent of CEB's bulk supply to
licensees. These losses are being addressed by the ADB through its FY84
Secondary Towns Distribution Project and a planned operation in FY87.
However, due to the large number of licensees (over 200) the reduction of
losses in their distribution systems in a timely manner may require Bank
Group support through a future operation.
Audit and Insurance
54.     In 1984, following recommendations of consultants engaged under the
Sixth Power Project (Credit 1048-CE), CEB established an internal audit unit.
In 1985, the unit's staffing was strengthened and its scope of work expanded
to enhance CEB's control over its   aancial operations.  The external audit
of CEB's accounts is carried out by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka. The
quality of audit is satisfactory. Under ongoing Bank Group operations, CEB
agreed to submit to the Bank Group its unaudited accounts within four months
of the end of the year under consideration, and audited accounts accompanied
by the Auditor's report, within ten months. CEB has complied with the agree-
ment for its 1985 accounts. The existing agreement would be reaffirmed under
the project.
55.     CEB has been operating a self-insurance scheme for a number of years,
and for this purpose has established an insurance reserve into which it makes
an annual contribution. The present insurance arrangements are unsatisfac-
tory since the existing reserve is being used to finance a portion of its
capital investment program, thus depleting the funds available for insurance
purposes. Therefore, CEB agreed that the balance accumulated in the
insurance reserve as on December 31, 1985, would be transferred to an escrow
account with a financial intermediary that could be utilized only in the
event of damage to CEB's assets, and that beginning fiscal year 1986 annual
contributions to the insurance reserve would be deposited into that account
on the last day of the fiscal year.
CEB's Financial Position
56.     CEB's financial performance in the period 1980-85 was generally
satisfactory. The rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets in
operation exceeded the covenanted rate of 8 percent in 1980-1982 and in 1985.
However, the rate of return in 1983 was only 5.6 percent as a result of an
unexpected heavy tax liability. The pre-tax rate of return in 1983 was 11.2
percent. In 1984, the rate of return was 7.4 percent due to the larger than
planned increase in the asset base with the delayed transfer occurred of
power plants constructed under the Accelerated Mahaweli Program. During the
period 1981-1985, CEB was able to finance an average of about 40 percent of
its annual capital investment from internal cash generation. This was a
satisfactory result for a utility with a relatively large investment program
and was primarily due to the substantial tariff increases introduced during
the period. CEB's financial position at the end of 1985 showed a very strong



-21-
capitalization position with a debt equity ratio of 18:82. In addition, the
coverage of debt service by gross funds generated internally was satisfactory
at 3.3:1.
57.     Forecast balance sheets show that CEB's revalued gross fixed assets
are expected to increase from Rs 27,276 million in 1985 to Rs 85,485 million
in 1991. About 39 percent of the increase would be financed from CEB's
internal sources, about 10 percent from equity, and 51 percent from
borrowings. As a result, long-term debt is projected to increase by about
440 percent from Rs 4,909 million to Rs 26,586 million, resulting in a
deterioration in the debt/equity ratio from 18:82 in 1985 to 32:68 in 1991,
which is still satisfactory for a power utility of CEB's size and functions.
Equity is expected to increase by about 160 percent, from Rs 21,775 million
in 1985 to Rs 57,496 million in 1991. Both the ratio of current assets to
current liabilities and the debt service coverage ratio would continue to
satisfactory. However, because of the projected large increases in debt,
CEB's debt servicing position would be monitored careEully. Therefore, CEB
would consult the Association before incurring new debt which would cause its
gross internal cash generation to falL below 1.5 times the debt service
requirement.
58.     In order to make CEB an autonomous, Einancially viabLe entity and
to reduce its dependence on the National Budget for capital investment,
Government has agreed to CEB's self-imposed objective that the utility could
take all necessary actions, including tariff increases, to meet the entire
local costs of its investment program during the forecast period, with the
exception of local costs of the ADB-financed Rural Electrification Project.
This financial objective of CEB, which is supported by the Bank Group, would
direct CEB's financial activities during the forecast period and ensure that
the utility achieves a rate of return of at least 8 percent on its revalued
average net fixed assets in use. However, in order to ensure that future
changes to this objective do not result in an erosion of CEB's financial
viability, the existing agreement that the Government and CEB would take all
necessary actions to ensure that CEB earns a minimum rate of return of 8
percent on revalued average net fixed assets in use was reaffirmed. In that
connection, CEB's fixed asset registers do not reflect accurately the value
of its plant and equipment, and to rectify this situation, in October 1985
CEB engaged under the Sixth Power Project (Credit 1048-CE) consultants to
undertake a Fixed Asset Accounting Study. The study would be completed by
December 31, 1986, and CEB agreed to: (a) review the results of the study
with the Association; and (b) implement the agreed recommendations by July 1,
1987.
Accounts Receivable
59.     Under the Fifth Power Project (Credit 372-CE), CEB was required to
ensure that accounts receivable do not exceed three months' billings. This
requirement was retained under subsequent credits and Loans, up to and
including the Eighth Power Project (Loan 2187-CE). Although CEB has made
considerable efforts to meet that target, its accounts receivable have



-22-
persistently exceeded the agreed level, and were equivalent to 5.4 months
billings at December 31, 1985. The two categories of consumers which were
responsible for most of the accounts receivables at that date were local
authorities (40 percent of total accounts receivable and 11.6 months'
billings) and private consumers (37 percent of total accounts receivable and
4.1 months' billings). In 1985, CEB initiated a number of measures, includ-
ing the implementation of a strict time schedule for billing and collection
of revenue from high tension consumers and Easter disconnection of defaulting
private consumers, to reduce accounts receivable.
60.     The problem of accounts receivable from local authorities has been
addressed a number of times at the highest level of Covernment, but without
significant success until early 1986. The excessively high accounts receiv-
able are largely the result of the poor financiaL position of local
authorities, which is also manifested in the poor quality of electricity
supply in their service areas because of underinvestment in their distribu-
tion systems. The fastest way for the accounts receivables to be reduced to
a satisfactory level would be for the Government to assume responsibility for
their payment. However, this solution would not address the root causes of
the problem, which are related to the inefficiency of many local authorities
in carrying out the function of electricity distribution and their poor
quality of electricity supply. The long-term solution to this problem
requires the reorganization of the power subsector with regard to the dis-
tribution of electricity and upgrading the distribution systems which are
now operated by local authorities. Government initiated this with the crea-
tion of LECO. The Bank Group supports this institutional reform; however,
pending this long-term solution to the accounts receivable problem, as an
interim measure Government and CEB have prepared and submitted to IDA a dated
and monitorable action program to reduce accounts receivable. The program
has been substantially implemented and as a result by May 19B6 the accounts
receivables had decreased to 3.6 months billing. The Government and CEB also
agreed to the following monitoring targets for the critical consumer
categories: local authorities to five months' billings as a condition of
effectiveness; and three months' billings by September 1, 1987; and from
government departments and agencies (other than corporations) to three
months' billings by September 1, 1987. Thereafter, total accounts receivable
should not exceed three months' billings.
Project Justification
61.     The project is justified as part of the least-cost expansion program
for CEB's distribution systems. However, its benefits to consumers cannot be
separated from those of other least-cost generation, transmission and dis-
tribution development programs. In these circumstances, it is appropriate to
carry out the cost-benefit analysis on the entire program to ensure that it
is justified. All costs were expressed in terms of their equivalent border
values. A minimum measure of the benefits associated with the entire invest-
ment program is given by incremental sales revenue. In early 1986, the
average tariff revenue was Rs 1.51/kWh. On this basis the rate of return is
estimated to be 9.0 percent. The project, however, would confer benefits in



-23-
excess of those measured by incremental revenue. A better measure of the
rate of return can be obtained by estimating consumers' willingness to pay
(WTP) for the incremental electricity sales.  A conservative estimate of WTP
was made as follows: for residential, commercial, street lighting, local
authority and government consumers it was the weighted average tariff rate
for incremental consumption in the respective tariff categories, while for
industrial and hotel consumers it was the marginal fuel cost of captive
diesel plant. On this basis, the EIRR is estimated to be about 11 percent.
However, it should be stressed that this is only a partial measure of EIRR
since it generally excludes any measure of consumers' surplus. In addition,
no allowance has been made for consumers' WTP for the improved reliability
and quality of electricity supply associated with the project.
Risks
62.     The project is straightforward and no unusual risks are foreseen.
Delay in implementation is, however, possible since the project is spread
over a large geographical area and has many interfaces with the existing
network. This risk would be minimized through the provision of project
management assistance by consultants. The packaging of the project, which
uses supply and erect contracts and clearly identifies contractual
responsibility, would also minimize this risk. Slippage could occur due to
delays in appointing contractors and problems in acquiring right of way.
Delays in the appointment of contractors would be minimized by engaging
consultants prior to credit effectiveness. Most of the distribution lines
would be constructed adjacent to public roadways and Sri Lanka's existing
laws give adequate powers to CEB to acquire right of way. Thus the acquisi-
tion of right of way is not expected to delay project implementation.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
63.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 24, 1986



-24-                                  ANNEX I
Page 1
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA
Reference Groups (MAE)
MoSt
RAcent   Low-Income    Mid-Income
1965        1973    Estlmate  Asia & Pac    Asia b Pac
AREA
Total land area (thou sq ki)       65.5         6S.6        65.6
Agricultural (% of total)          32.9         36.9        40.0
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                                         360.0       253.7      1021.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)          11133.0    13091.0    15851.0
Urban pop. (% of total)             19.9        22.0        21.2        23.0        34.6
Population growth rate():
Total                                          2.0         1.8        1t9          2.3
Urban                                          3.3         0.5         3.7         4.2
Life expect. at birth (yrs)         63.9        63.3        69.6        61.9        60.6
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (m111)                                       20.7
Stationary pop. (m111)                                    31.5
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land              516.4        541.4       603.8       317.0       176.5
Pop. age structure l%):
0-14 yrs                         41.9         40.8        35.1        36.1        38.7
15-64 yrs                        54.4        55.3        60.5         59.5        57.7
65 and above                      3.7          3.9         4.4         4.5         3.6
Crude birth rate (per thOU)         33.2        29.8        26.2        27.1        29.7
Crude death rate (par thou)          8.0         8.0         6.t         9.7         9.4
Total fertility rate                 4.9         4.2         3.2         3.6         3.8
Infant mort, rate (per thou)       63.0         55.2        36.6        66.3        64.7
Child death rate (per thou)          6.0         4.5         2.4         7.4         6.9
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)          15.0        55.3       100.5
Users (% of married women)                     5.5        55.0        49.1        56.2
F0O0. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of focd production per
capita (1974-76 - 100)              79.5        85.3       125.1       123.2       115.8
Per capita supply of:
Calories (% of requirmnts)       100.6        94.9       105.8       102.8       110.3
Proteins (grams per day)         44.6         40.4        45.5        56.7        50.0
Pop. per physician (thou)            5.7         6.0         8.1         3.1         7.9
Pop. per nurse (thou)                3.1         2.0         1.3         4.4         1.5
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)         0.3         0.3         0.4         1.1         0.6
Access to safe water
(1 of population):  Total                    21.0         33.0 a      44.2        44.1
Urban                   46.0        65.0 a      75.9        64.6
Rural         .         14.0        18.0 a      34.7        34.4
Population Growth              Infant Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
S                   ~~~~~~~200-
Sr<za)~~~~~ 120+
150~~~~~~~~10
100.
50
1365-73 1973-84         1160 1965 1970 1175 1980      1360 1965 1370 1975 1980
e SRI LANXA                                     U  SRI LANKA
tZ r7RST REF GROUP                              O   FR5TRUR GFUP



-25-                               ANNEX I
Page 2
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent   Low-income    Mid-income
1965       t973    Estimate  Asia & Pac    Asia & Pac
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)        3730.1      4347.2     5457.7
Female (%)                      23.8        24.2       25.6        34.2        34.6
Agriculture (1)                 56.0        54.7       53.4 a      68.6        53.3
Industry (M)                    13.9        14.3       13.9 a      15.6        16.6
Participation rate (%l:
Total                           33.5        33.2       34.4        41.8        38.8
Male                            49.2        48.6       50.1        53.5        50.7
Female                          16.6        t6.7        18.0       29.4        26.9
Age dependency ratio               0.8         0.8        0.7         0.7         0.7
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                            5.4         5.8           -          .
Urban                            6.3         6.3
Rural                            5.2         5.5
Percentage of dwellings with
slectricity:
Total                            7.5         9.0       14.9
Urban                           35.9        34.5       45.9
Rural                            2.3         3.0        8.0
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Prtmary: Total                  93.0        99.0      101.0        94.8       109.5
Mtale                  98.0      104.0       103.0       104.2      111.6
Female                 86.0       94.0        99.0       78.7       107.3
Seconsdary: Total               35.0        47.0       56.0        33.0       47.8
Male                 34.0       46.0        54.0       40.5        50.2
Female               35.0       48.0        58.0       24.7        44.7
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                           ..        15.4       16.1        38.2        29.6
Secondary                         ..          ..          ..       18.2       21.8
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)         ..          ..       89.3        56.2        74.6
INCOME. CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)           106.7       140.1      143.1       316.5      510.2
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households       36.9        28.0
Highest 20%                     52.1        42.8
Lowest 20%                       4.5         7.3
Lowest 40%                      13.7        193
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                             ..          ..          ..         ..       181.8
Rural                             ..          ..          ..         .        135.6
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban                             ..          ..          ..         ..        27.0
Rural                                          -          --                   43.0
Passenger cars/thou pop.           7.4         6.9          ..        0.5         5.7
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)         39.5        40.9      106.1        28.4       62.7
EPO July 1986
Not available
Nate: Group averages are population weighted. Country coverage depends on data awvilablity and is not uniform. Unless otherwise
noted. 195 refers to any year between 1952 and 1968: 1973 Oetween 1970 end 197J; and most recant estimate bstvwen 1962 and 195.
a. 1980.



-26-
ANNEX I
3  Definitions of Social Indicators                           Page 3
The definition of a particular social indicator may    Infant (age 0-i) mortality rate - Number of infants
vary among countries or within one country over    per thousand live births who die before reaching one
time. For instance, different countries define "urban  year of age, in a given year.
area" or "safe water" in diffcrent ways.         Child (age 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
of children, age 1-4, per thousand children in the
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                same age group in a given year. For most developing
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and  countries thest d2!ta are derived from models using
inland watcrs.                                   information on infant mortality rates.
Agriculturar (percentage of total) - Estimate of agri-    Faamily planning - acceptors. (thousands) - Annual
cultural area used for crops, pastures, market and  number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow, as percentage of    ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
total.                                           ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of mnrried wnm-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita esti-    en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
mates at current market prices, calculated by the  age who are practising, or whose husbands are
conversion method used for the World Rank Atlas.    practising, any form of contraception. Women of
1986.                                            child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549,
although for some countries contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                  measurod for another age group.
Total popularion - mid-year (millions)
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRION
countries follow different definitions of urban popu-    Index offoodproduction per capita (1974-76 = 100)
lation. Such differences may affect comparability of    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data among counLries.                            commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
Population growth rate (percent) - total and urban -    seed for agriculture. Food conunodities include pri-
Annual growlh rates of Lotal and of urban popula-    mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
tions.                                           of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
Life expectancy at brth (years) - Number of years a  trients (for example, tea and coffee are excluded).
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    Commodities include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals,
mortality for all people at the time of its birth were    vegetables, oil seeds, sugarcane and sugar bects,
to stay the same throughout its life.            livestock, and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
Population projections                           tion of each country is based on national average
Population in 2000 - The projection or population  producer price weights.
given total population by age and sex, fertility and  Per capita Supply of calories (percentage of require-
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and  ments) - Computed from energy equivalent of net
migration in the base year 1980, until the population  food supplies available in country percapita per day.
reaches a stationary state.                      Available supplies comprise domestic production,
Stationary population - The projected population    imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net
level when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.,   supplics exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agri-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate,    culture, quantities used in food proessing, and loss-
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    es in distribution. Requirements were estimated for
zero.                                            1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Population density, agricudrural land - Population per    (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    activity and health considering body weights, envi-
Population age structure (percent) - Children 0-14  ronmental temperature, age and sex distribution of
years. working age 15-64 years, and people of 65  population.
years and over as percentages of population.     Per capita supply ofprotein (grans per day) - Protein
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand  content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
population.                                      supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand    all countries established by United States Depart-
population.                                      ment of Agriculture provide for minimum allow-
Totalferrility rate - The average number of children    ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
that would be born alive to a woman during her    grams of animal and pulse protein. These standards
lifetime if during her childbearing years she were to    are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and
bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-    23 grams of animal protein as an average for the
inb :5c-specific fertility rates.                world, as proposed by FAO.



-27-                                        ANNEX I
Page 4
Population per physician - Population divided by    group of individuals who share living quarters and
number of practising physicians qualified from a    main meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
medical school at university level.               included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided    Percentage of dwellings with electricity - total, urban,
by number of practising graduate nurses, assistant    and rural - Conventional dwellings with electricity in
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
Population per hospital bed - Population divided by
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-    EDUCATION
vate, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    Enroblment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments    Primnary School Enrollment - total, male andfemale
pemanently staffed by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
tablishments principally providing custodial care are    percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.                                     many countries consider primary school age to bc
Access to safe water (percentage of population) - total,    6-lI years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
urban. and rural- People (total, urban, and rural) with    cnces in country practices in the ages and duration
reasonable access to safe water supply (includcs treat-    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated    countries with universal education, gross enrollment
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and    may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
tain or standpost located not more than 200 meters    school age.
from a house may be considered within reasonable    Secondary School Enrollment - total. male and
access of that house. In rural areas reasonable access   female - Computed in a similar manner, but includes
would imply that members of the household do not    pupils enrolled in vocational, or teacher training
have to spend a disproportionate part of the day    secondary schools, for pupils usually of 12 to 17
fetching water. Absint and incomplete responscs, and    years of age.
large vanations between countries, may affect the   Pupi-zeacher ratio -primary, and secondary - Total
validity of the ovrall results of the country and    students enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisons. In addition, certain definitions    number of teachers.
and cassifications such as urban and rural, reason-  Percentage pupils reaching grade six - The percen-
able access to safe water in rural areas, safe waler    tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
sources (when they are not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably from country to country
and thus affect comparability of the data.        INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
LABOR FORCE                                       Energy consmnprion per capita (kilograms of oil equi-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active    valent) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
persons, including armed forces and unemployed but    mary energy (coal and lignite, petroleum, natural
cxcluding housewives and students. Definitions in    gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothennal electricity).
various countries are not comparable.             Private income distribution - Income (both in cash
Female (percent) - Female labor force as a percen-    and kind) accruing to percentile groups of house-
tage of total labor force.                        holds ranked by total household income.
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    Passenger cars (per thousandpopulation) - Includes
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    motor cars seating Fewer than eight persons; ex-
labor force.                                      cludes ambulances, hearses and military vehicles.
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
tion, manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    Average circulation of -daily general intercst news-
a percentage of total labor force.                paper," defined as a p;niodical publica!ion devoted
Parricipation rate (percent) - total, male, andfemale    primarily to recording general news. It is considered
- Participation rates are computed as the percentage    to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of population of all ages in the labor force. These are    Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per
based on International Labour Office (ILO) data on  capira) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the age-sex structure of the population.          level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
15-64).                                          imate measures of poverty levels, and should be
interpreted with considerable caution.
HOUSING                                           Estimated population below absolute poverty income
Average size of household (persons per household) -    level (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
iotal, urban, and rural - A household consists of a    populations who live in "absolute poverty."



ANNEX I
-28-                                        Page 5
SRI LANKA - ECONOMIC IRDICAWRS
OUTPUT IN 1 985 BY SECTOR                                  ANNAL RATE OF GRCIM  (C. constant prices)
Value Added
$ Millio                          197077         1977-85-      1970-85
Agriculture                    1,513      27.5                    2.0             4.1          3.2
Industry WJ                    1,355      24.6                    2.0             5.5          3.9
Services                       2,633      47.9                    ILL 6.8                      51
Total f                      5,501    100.0                     2.9             5.9          4.5
GROSS DOlMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1985
USS Million      ;[
GDP at Market Prices                            5, 911      100.0
Investment                                      1,475        25.0
Gross National Savings                            906        15.4
Current Account Deficit                           569         9.6
Exports of Goods and NPS                        1,549        26.2
Imports of Goods and NFS                        2,262        38.3
GOVERNMT FINANCE
Central Goverrnent
(Re million)    Z of GDP at Narket Prices
L            i219      198      1985
Current Receipts L/                         33,889        17.2      22.1      21.1
Current Expenditures i!/                    33,593        18.3      17.2      20.9
Current Surplus                                2 96       -1.1       4.9       0.2
Capital Expenditures ij                     23,342         7.3      13.6      14.5
External Assistance                         11,097         3.2       6.4       6.9
aJ Registrar General's Department.
bf Provisional.
cJ  1981.
] World Bank Atlas eatimate.
e/ Manufacturing, mining, and construction.
f  GDP at factor cost.
gL Includes capital revewue.
hI Includes advance accounts.
il Includes net lending.
South Asia Programs Department
May 12, 1986



ANNEX I
-29-                                          Page 5
SRI LANKA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
KINKY. CREDIT. MID PRICE[                                                   UR9      198Z    [23        198      [
(end of period)                                                         (Ru Million)
Money and Quasi Money                 8,635    10,803   14,957   19,709   14,287   30,249   36,818   43,015   48,099
Bank Credit to Public Sector          4,659     4,252    6,309   13,223   17,377   21,913   22,024   18,753   24,924
Rank Credit to Private Sector         4,115      6,449    7,735   12,085   16,275   20,257   26,960   30,831   33,763
(Percentages or Index Number.)
Money and Quasi Money as I of GDP      23.7    25.3        28.6     29.6    28.6    30.5    30.3         28.0    30.0
General Price Index (1970.100)         89.2   100.0    110.8   139.7   164.8   182.6   208.2   242.9   246.4
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price ldex                    +1.3   .12.1       +10.8   +26.1   +18.0   .10.8   .14.0    +16.7    .1.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector           .6.7     -9.3      448.4   +109.6   +31.4   +26.1    40.5   -14.9   132.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector         440.4   +56.7       +19.9   +56.2   .34.7   .24.5   +33.1    +14.4          4;.-
BALANCE Or PAYME                                                     MHERCAUDISES 1XPORTS (1985)
1183     [fj    [985                                     $ tMillion      z
(USS million)
Tea                             438       32.9
Exports of Goods, UFS                 1,360    1,743    1,549        lubber                            94        7.1
imports of Goods, NFS                 2,138    2,142    2,262        Coconut Products                 87         6.5
Resource Gap (deficit - -)             -778     -399      -713       All Other Conodities             712       53.5
let Factor Income                      -138     -133      -126             TOTSL                    1,331      100.0
Net Transfers & Rmittance.              274       277      270
Balance on Current Account             -642     -255      -569
ETERKAL DEBT (S Million) IL
Direct Foreign Inwestment                37       33        30
Net MHLT Loans                          303      311       299                                   Decmber    December
Disbursements                         378      410       434                                      19B4        1985
Amortization                           75       99       135
Capital Grants                          171      203       145       Total Outstanding            3,892        4,456
Other Capital (net)                     132        -         7
Change in Reserves t+ - increase)        +1    +292       -88        Total Outstanding
and Disbursed              2,459       2,953
Groxs Reserves (end-year)               522       721      671
Net Reserves (end-year)                 -14      278       190
Crude Oil and Petroleum Products                                     DEBT SERVICE RATIO hi (Z)      17.6        22.5
imports                               469      420      391
Exports                               107      127       139
1BRDIIDA LENDING. March 31. 1986 (US$ Million)
RATE OF EICRANGE
IBRD     IDA
End 1980                        3                                    O        ns4
USS1.00 - Rs 18.00       USSl O  - Rs 25.00                          Outstanding and Disbured          54.4   413.9
Rs 1.00 - U09  0.06      Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.04                          Undisbursed                      23.6   2" .7
End  1981                Had 1984                                    Outstanding, including
US$1.00 - Rs 20.55       US$1.00 - Rs 26.28                            Undisbursed                     78.0    707.6
Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.05       Rs 1.00 - US  0.04
End- 12                  End 1985
US$1.00 - Rs 21.32       US$1.00 - Rs 27.41
Ru 1.00 - US$ 0.05       Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.04
iJ  Repayable in foreign currencies and with a msturity over one year, including private non-guaranteed debt.
h Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services. Debt service include. service on HILT debt,
including IMF charges and repurchases, and interest payments on short-tern debt.
South Asia Progras Department
Nay 12, 1986



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1986)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                         Amount
Credit                                                                 (net of caucellations)
No.       Year   Borrower        Purpose                             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and sixteen credits fully disbursed                       72.9  133.2
818       1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)                    21.0      5.1
891       1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                     20.0       7.0
931       1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                            15.5       9.0
979       1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Technical Assistance               3.0       1.3
994       1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                         53.0      13.0
1017       1980  Sri Lanka  Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation                 16.0      5.8
1020       1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                                30.0      0.7
1041       1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                              30.0      12.6
1048       1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                       19.5      8.4
1079 /a    1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                          33.5     13.5
1130 /a    1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                             13.5      3.6
1160 /a    1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation                 30.0     18.1
1166 /a    1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development III                    90.0     40.6
1182 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  SMI II                                            30.0     23.1
1210 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                     36.0     10.7
1240 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                               20.0      9.0
2187       1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                              36.7      -       2.6
1317 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry I                                         9.0      8.4
1363 la    1983  Sri Lanka  Third Rural Development                           23.0     12.2
1401 la    1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development Project                   25.0       8.1
1494 [a /b 1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development IV                    30.0      30.0
2437 /b    1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development IV             12.1             12.1
1537 /a    1985  Sri Lanka  Major Irrigation Rehabilitation                   17.0     17.6
2517       1985  Sri Lanka  Second Roads                              24.0             21.1
1562 /a    1985  Sri Lanka  Fourth Tree Crops                                55.0      55.6
2576 La Lb 1985  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development II                      38.0             38.0
TOTAL                                                                183.7  753.2    387.2
of which has been repaid                                            52.1    6.2        -
Total now outstanding                                                131.6  747.0
Amount sold                                3.6
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA Lc                                    128.0  747.0
Total Undisbursed                                                     35.7  351.5    387.2
La  IDA 6th, and 7th replenishment Credits, principal amounts and credits not
yet effective shown in. US dollars equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown
in the President's Reports and undisbursed amounts for effective credits shown
in U1S dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at March 31, 1986.
/b  Not yet effective.
Lc  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1, 2 and 3 has been
increased by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the
devaluation of the US dollar in 1972 and 1973.



IBRD 19433
-o PFk-dt
SRI LANKA
,Bolawl             POWER IX DISTRIBUTION DEVELOPMENT
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
, V               PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT IN OUTER COLOMBO REGIONS
*   1                         ~~                     ~~                   ~~~~~0  5  l MXFr.
Nagambo               \
Voyangodo
._                        Kaodot , \   ~~~~~~~-->mpnhn /b4od
o__n*_                          \   Endefomullol          %       \)         /                   /                >~~o .5l P.
Kohugodo         <,   S    i/         /                            i Kos"7
4 lbO.    b.-  
,i~Et          S R I               e -       ;~ '    ~t *t4 OrnI|
, :                      \. '             \ 9K       |   ~~~~~~~~~~Aronog 
LA NKA                                           Peio=B  
c.wn mbn .rAVidiyon\/\ >                                                                                _              PodduKko
A p1 fAl.p issw* ..
if .vaae                                           l I       _dololwmbuno
ar   /::            :
*      aT~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
ProSed Componentsr :                                                         Exising Power Stations
---iColombo Divsision Cable Network Devloprnent°                                   isngGd5usoos
*  Gantries                                                              ai     Planned Grid Substation fnon-project)
Now 0.175 in. sq. lines (doubles circuit)                                    Existing 132 kv lines
Now 0,175 in. sq. lines (single circuit)                                     Existing 220 kV lirnes
Corwersion of 1 1 kV lines to 33 kV lines
NAFtional Capital
--     EInterngtionwl Boundsry
JUNE 19S6



e--
SRI LANKA
POWER IX DISTRIBUTION DEVELOPMENT
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Co~nponents
*     Cridd SuA,toIiono
Ncw 0.175 i.u sq. lnes i doobie reuit)
Ne_ 0a175 in. q. line- (inTgle c.uet)
c-__ ernion ol 11 kV linei lo 33 kV linen
*     Ciunlries
*       E,dsting
O        Under C-.n-finn
o     Eointi.g C3id Snbntoi-nn
132 I: Spale
E-isSig lines
---- Line8 u.,nder cntn ctiou
-     Plonned tine (non-prtedl
220 kV Synte.
nJ                          Enisting linen
-i_es under .. rctio
*    Nutionul Cuoitul
--   lolemotionol Boodr
0.                                                                                                                                           r~
ko
-;  r t   ?  0  t-                             0         -          \                                                                            0 0 @a*
,;~~~~                                    ~          ~ ~                      ~             ~~~~~~~~~ 2? ,(  -  ES
+ '~~~'~~                   0 0-7\                                          -#-''~~~~~~~6 26   1c,ml                             R
I9Ca3    \c_=r=no                           \                                                                                     _____eononl
"}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C6b  LANKA\                                                                C
IND   AN           O  CE      N                                                                                         ,
5a11e~~~~   \~                                                                  *             1                     =FB5.
4'                     -                                 ~~       ~      ~~       ~      ~~~~ ~ ~~~~O,  20  4001E  6 
0         20        dO         0 KOCO ER                                      SRCi IN
iz                          ~I N D IA N  O CE£A N
_                        808S                                                                                                                   __..=_



