FILE COPY                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2212-YAR
REPORT AND RECO*MIETION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TE
TNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CRMDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB IR'T-IC
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PP>RCT
April 13, 1978
This document hss a restricted distribution a   msy be m" by veil     ny in the peirformance of
their official duties. Its cotenb tsy I othervvbe be dUi_i wtIto WeRd Bank ulthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1                     =     YRls 4.50 1/
YRls         1         =            $0.22
YRls     1,000         =          $222.00
YRls 1,000,000         -      $222,222.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO               Central Planning Organization
HA                Highway Authority
MPWM              Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities
VTC               Vocational Training Center at the City of Taiz
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared
to the IMF. All exchange transactions are effected at
the Central Bank rate which has been pegged to the US
dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUJMMARY
Borrower:            Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:              $11.5 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:        The main objective of the project is to assist the Highway
Authority (HA) in the introduction of effective road main-
tenance practices. Other objectives include the implemen-
tation of vehicle loading controls, planning of future
highway development and the inception of an overlay
program to strengthen existing paved roads. The project
would include:
1.   A three year road maintenance program including the
procurement of road maintenance and workshop equip-
ment and the construction and related supervision of
buildings for maintenance depots, mechanical work-
shops, warehouses and regional maintenance offices;
2.   Construction of vehicle weight control stations and
asphaltic concrete overlay with related supervision
along with detailed engineering for overlays of
priority sections of existing roads;
3.   Preparation of a highway master plan;
4.   Technical assistance to the HA to fill key on-line
positions by direct recruitment of expatriates; and
5.   A three year HA training program including the pro-
vision of training buildings, equipment, training
staff and fellowships.
The project would provide direct benefits to the YAR
economy by reducing vehicle operating costs, and indirectly
by providing a framework for improved management and
rational investment for highways in the future. With most
institution building projects, there is a considerable risk
of not achieving complete success. However, even a moder-
ate success would have an important impact in the context
of the YAR situation (para. 44).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
1/
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Millions)
Cost Estimates              External
(US$ Millions)         IDA   Sources      Gvt.
Local  Foreign  Total  Amount   Amount    Amount
1. Road Maintenance
Capital Costs           0.62    7.41    8.03   3.74       6.74      0.14
Recurrent Costs         7.90    7.50   15.40    -          -       27.46
2. Vehicle Loading
Controls and
Overlays for
Paved Roads             0.43    1.52    1.95   0.62       2.41      0.20
3. Highway Master
Investment Plan         0.12    0.46    0.58   0.56        -        0.19
4. Technical Assistance
to the Highway
Authority               0.69    2.19    2.88   2.73        -        1.82
5.  Training                  1.84    3.65    5.49   3.85       1.85      2.72
6. Physical
Contingencies           1.18    2.33    3.51    -          -         -
7.  Risk Allowance            0.13    0.34    0.47    -          -         -
8.  Price Escalation         13.93    3.08   17.01    -          -         -
2/
TOTAL (rounded)       26.8    28.5    55.3   11.5      11.0       32.8
I/ Includes all physical and price contingencies and risk allowance.
2/ Composed of US$5 million from the Government contribution to the project,
and US$27.8 million from the Government's general budget allocation to the
Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities for HA road maintenance.



( iii)
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:                                    $ Million
IDA FY    1979      1980      1981      1982      1983     Total
Annual                     1.70       5.0       3.6     1.10      0.10      11.50
Cumulative                 1.70       6.7      10.3    11.40    11.50       11.50
Economic Rate
of Return:            The directly quantifiable elements include the Taiz-Km3
road overlay with a Benefit:Cost ratio of 1.8:1.0 and
the maintenance program with a Benefit:Cost ratio of
4.0:1.0. If the costs of training are included as a
maintenance cost the Benefit:Cost ratio for maintenance
and training is 2.0:1.0. These three project elements,
which represent about 86 percent of the estimated proj-
ect cost, show an overall Benefit:Cost ratio of over
1.9:1.0 and an Economic Rate of Return of over 100
percent.
Estimated Completion
Date:                 March 31, 1982
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No.1854a-YAR, dated April 3, 1978
Regional Projects Department, EMENA






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $11.5 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a Third Highway project. The YAR
Government is exploring with other external sources the provision of $11.0
million equivalent towards the cost of the project, under parallel financing
arrangements.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 840a-YAR), dated January 9, 1976, was distributed
to the Executive Directors on January 20, 1976. A basic economic mission
visited YAR in October 1977 and its report is under preparation. The findings
of the mission are reflected in this section. Country data are attached in
Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last few years YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socio-economic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. Follow-
ing the 1962 Revolution which ended the feudal rule of the Imam and opened the
country to the outside world, and after a protracted civil war that lasted
till mid-1970, the new Republican Government succeeded in establishing within
a surprisingly short period of time, the foundations of a modern state. Tech-
nical ministries were strengthened, essential government institutions were
created such as the Central Bank and the Central Planning Organization, modern
budgetary and banking practices were introduced, and a reasonable level of
working effectiveness was achieved by the public administration. Tribal frag-
mentation, a major obstacle to political stability in the past, is gradually
being overcome. Central Government control has been spreading throughout the
country and continues to do so.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors.  In 1973 the Government launched a Three-Year Development Program
(1973/74-1975/76) which susbsequently was implemented largely with the help
of foreign technical and capital assistance. In its wake, the physical infra-
structure was expanded and telecommunication links were built; first attempts
were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its
medieval setting; industrialization was started, albeit on a small-scale;
education was spread at all levels; health services were improved; projects
were initiated to build urban water supply and sewage facilities; and rural
development was promoted through local development associations.
5.        More recently, especially since the quadrupling of international oil
prices at the beginning of 1974, there has been an unprecedented increase in
personal cash incomes based mainly on remittances by Yemenis who went to work



-2-
in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. It is estimated that workers' remit-
tances rose from some $30 million in 1969/70 to over $800 million in 1976/77.
Largely as a result of these cash inflows YAR's per capita GNP has more than
doubled in real terms since 1969/70 reaching a level of about $400 1/ in
1976/77. While these developments, together with fast-growing government
expenditures for both investment projects and public services, have greatly
alleviated Yemen's traditional problems of poverty, famine and rural under-
employment, they have created new ones which require urgent attention in the
future.
Major Development Issues
6.        Foremost among these is the problem of manpower shortage which has
become the overriding constraint to YAR's development. This shortage has been
created by large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil countries which now
absorb an estimated 20 percent of YAR's male labor force. At the same time,
labor demand has increased sharply within the country as a result of develop-
ment programs initiated by the Government, and a rapid expansion of private
business activity. Labor scarcities of both skilled and unskilled categories
are pervasive throughout the economy; but they are particularly pronounced in
the public sector largely because salaries of civil servants are lagging
behind those offered in the private sector. This seriously limits the absorp-
tive capacity of the public administration.
7.        The gap between public and private salaries has been widened by a
narrow tax base and by inflation which averaged some 30 percent p.a. in recent
years. Inflation also creates distortions in resource allocation and income
distribution, and weakens the savings propensity of the private sector. The
major sources of inflation have been a fast-growing demand for goods and ser-
vices as well as physical constraints on imports, especially congestion in
the Port of Hodeidah. Domestic demand has been fuelled by workers' remit-
tances; by a deficit in the Government's financial transactions; and more
recently, by an acceleration of bank credit to the private sector.
8.        Another major issue the Government faces at present, is to assure
the rational allocation of its rapidly growing investment resources. During
the past when funds were more limited and modern facilities were sorely
lacking, the authorities found it relatively easy to select high-priority
projects such as establishing the basic physical infrastructure, introducing
modern education, building irrigation works, power stations or a few factories.
With the rapid growth in development spending, however, the range of choices
is increasing very substantially and the long-term costs and benefits of indi-
vidual projects will not always be as obvious as in the past.
9.        Yet, the new problems of affluence as well as recent achievements
in development, remarkable as they are, should not distract from the fact
that YAR continues to face many of the problems of an underdeveloped country.
Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially in agriculture which
occupies about three-fourths of the resident labor force. This reflects the
1/   Tentative estimate; official figure is $250 per capita, as shown in
Annex 1 and based on World Bank Atlas methodology for the period 1974-76.



3
very limited investment in physical capital made so far as well as the pre-
dominance of traditional skills. Nine out of ten adult persons are illiterate
and only one out of every four children in the age group 6-11 is enrolled in
primary schools. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part of whom in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Moreover, there are serious physical
constraints to development in YAR. The country's known natural resources are
limited and a rugged topography poses severe obstacles for road transport.
Agricultural land and water are both scarce and few mineral deposits have
been discovered so far.
Government Objectives
10.       The Government is fully aware of these issues--old as well as new
ones--and willing to address them with all the means at its disposal. This
is reflected in the Government's development objectives as outlined in the
first Five-Year Development Plan for the years 1976/77-1980/81. Building on
the achievements of the Three-Year Program, the new Plan endeavors to further
develop the country's human and natural resources; to strengthen the physical
infrastructure; to raise the productivity of the commodity producing sectors;
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs for food, health services, education, water supply and other com-
munity services. To achieve its objectives the Government has launched an
impressive investment and manpower training program which it intends to carry
out in close cooperation with foreign donors of capital and technical assis-
tance. While continuing to rely on a market-oriented economic system the
authorities foresee increasing collaboration between the public, cooperative
and private sectors.
11.       The Plan identifies investment opportunities in all major sectors,
especially in transport, agriculture, industry, housing, education and public
health. The overall investment targets are very ambitious. They envisage an
increase in gross fixed capital formation from $170 million in 1975/76 to
$1,230 million in 1980/81, implying an annual growth rate of almost 50 percent.
The overall investment volume during the five years of the Plan is to be US$3.5
billion. Although not excessive for a country of YAR's size and population
(it represents an annual amount of about US$150 per capita), the steep increase
in investment proposed by the Plan raises questions of technical feasibility
and economic viability.
12.       Some progress is already being made in reaching the Government's
objectives. One example is the port development project, sponsored by IDA,
which will ease congestion in Hodeidah and improve facilities in other ports
of entry. The project is designed to meet YAR's requirement for port capacity
up to 1985. The resulting unrestricted flow of imports should reduce present
supply shortages thus easing inflationary pressure. In addition, measures
have been taken, in consultation with the IMF, to reduce the budget deficit
and to restrict the expansion of bank credit to the private sector. Encour-
aging results are also being achieved in education and manpower training.
Enrollment in primary and secondary schools is growing rapidly and programs
in technical and vocational training have been started. The University of



- 4 -
Sana'a, established in 1970, now has close to 3,000 students many enrolled
in technical disciplines. A large number of Yemeni students (about 2,300)
also receives training abroad.
13.       Other issues still have to be addressed by the authorities.  They
include measures designed to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public
sector; to broaden the tax base thus providing financial resources for the
necessary increase in government salaries and essential public services; to
ascertain the economic viability of future investments so as to avoid sub-
optimal utilization of domestic and foreign resources; and to introduce effec-
tive maintenance programs for existing and new capital stock.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
14.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to
have grown at an average rate of 8-9 percent a year between 1969/70 and
1975/76. Not surprisingly, economic growth was strongest in the modern
sectors, reflecting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of
government services, of transportatiorn and finance. There was also a rapid
increase of modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising
vegetables, fruits and chickens. Subsistence agriculture, still the most
important economic sector in YAR, grew at a much slower pace (about 3 percent
p.a.).
15.       When interpreting these trends one has to remember that 1969/70
fell into the middle of a prolonged drought period. Agricultural growth,
especially in the subsistence sector, therefore reflects in large measure
higher levels of precipitation in the final year (1975/76). If this factor
is eliminated one can conclude that agricultural expansion was essentially
confined to cash crops while subsistence farming just about held its ground
and possibly even declined marginally.
16.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
investment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects but later in a more coordinated
form through its Three-Year Program and the Five-Year Plan the Government
increased its development spending from YR 57 millon ($13 million) in 1972/73
to YR 340 million ($76 million) in 1975/76.
17.       Although the period since 1970 is relatively short, it has witnessed
perceptible changes in the structure of YAR's economy. The shares of modern
agriculture, trade, transport and government services in GDP have all increased
during the 1970s while that of subsistence agriculture declined from over 40
percent in 1969/70 to less than one third in 1975/76. But even so, YAR's
economy is still very much underdeveloped. The contribution of cash farming
and industry (including construction) to GDP is still less than that of sub-
sistence farming.



-5-
Domestic and External Finance
18.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years, has led to a spectacular increase in overall savings far exceeding the
fast growing investment level. In 1975/76, gross national savings reached the
equivalent of 24 percent of GNP compared with only 10 percent in 1971/72.
While this is, indeed, a very impressive achievement for a country of YAR's
low per capita income, it must be borne in mind that the high savings rate was
perhaps as much the result of fortuitous circumstances as of deliberate poli-
cies. Delayed consumer response to a massive growth of money incomes, together
with large capital transfers made by Yemeni businessmen returning from Saudi
Arabia, have swelled the pool of national savings to an extent which may not
be perpetuated in future years.
19.       Virtually all of YAR's national savings are being generated by the
private sector while the government sector has had negative savings in the
past. This was mainly the result of a narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in
1975/76) which did not allow the public sector to capture an adequate share
of the country's growing money incomes. Shortage of tax revenue has also
restricted the expansion of essential public services such as education,
public health and maintenance programs for existing capital stock.
20.       So far the inadequacy of current revenue has not held back public
investment. Generous foreign aid has enabled the Government to finance all
projects and programs which it could effectively handle. Moreover, cash
grants provided by Saudi Arabia have helped to ease the burden of current
expenditures. Although foreign aid is likely to be available in the foresee-
able future, it will have to be gradually replaced by domestic resources if
the country is to become more self-reliant. The longer term objective of
fiscal policy therefore should be to raise sufficient local revenue that the
current budget can be balanced and a significant contribution can be made to
the financing of government capital expenditures.
21.       Significant progress has already been made in this respect during
recent years. Current domestic revenue has risen from 73 percent of current
expenditure in 1972/73 to 94 percent in 1975/76, while the current deficit has
declined both in real and absolute terms. During 1976/77 the current budget
was approximately balanced and for 1977/78 a moderate surplus is expected.
These are remarkable achievements for a country of Yemen's early state of
development.
22.       The external financial position of the Yemen Arab Republic has
changed dramatically in recent years. While at the beginning of the current
decade foreign exchange was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced
the Government to request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding
commitments, the country has now entered a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and rapidly growing exchange reserves. The principal
reason for this change must be seen in the close and friendly relations that
YAR has established with Saudi Arabia and other Arab oil exporting nations
whose vast and still growing wealth is spilling over into YAR in the form of
workers' remittances and aid flows.



-6-
23.       Yemen's commodity exports are still extremely low reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy.  During 1973/74-1976/77 they averaged approximately $15 million a
year, or the equivalent of about 1 percent of GDP. Most exports are of agri-
cultural origin with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major commodi-
ties. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $730 million in 1976/77. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemen Rial,
and the absence of import restrictions. The increase would have been even
stronger had there not been physical constraints - particularly in the Port
of Hodeidah - to transport foreign goods into the country.
24.       With exports lagging behind the rapid growth of imports, YAR's trade
deficit reached about $710 million in 1976/77, almost four times as large as
in 1973/74. However, YAR's import capacity is only marginally based on its
export potential and depends increasingly on its strong surplus position in
the service sectors, especially workers' remittances. Net earnings from
services have grown even faster in recent years than the trade deficit. As a
result, the balance on current account which was in deficit until 1974/75,
recorded its first surplus in 1975/76 (US$130 million) which rose to $175 mil-
lion in 1976/77.
Capital Flows and External Debt
25.       Since independence, YAR has received substantial amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least developed country", most of the aid was provided in the torm
of grants and concessional loans. Although a complete over-view of all assis-
tance received by the YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can
be estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came close to $750 million by
the end of FY1976/77, of which more than half was disbursed in the last 3
years.
26.       About three-fifths of the total assistance given so far was provided
in the form of non-reimbursable grants, mostly for food aid, technical assis-
tance and more recently, budget support. Food aid has been provided through
the World Food Program and a number of bilateral donors. A large part of
official grants has been made available in the form of technical assistance.
Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has
high priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come.
Besides the grants YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits.
Total commitments exceeded $547 million on June 30, 1977 about half of which
has been disbursed. Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years,
averaging $47 million in 1975/76 and 1976/77. More than three quarters of
all official loans and credits have been committed for the financing of
specific projects with the main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including
irrigation, and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.
27.       The terms on which the YAR has obtained official loan assistance
have been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of



China are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries
have generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 percent to 4 percent but Arab
commodity assistance has been interest-free. Loan maturities generally range
from 5 to 50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
28.       Yemen's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1977 was esti-
mated at $529 million, of which $292 million was disbursed. The major creditors
were IDA, USSR, China, Germany, the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits
accounted for $110 million or about 20 percent of the total debt reported.
Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service paymelnts are
estimated at only about $6 million for 1976/77, equivalent to less than one
percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances).
Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few years, the
burden of such payments should continue to remain small in relation to YAR's
exchange earnings.
29.       In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign exchange reserves.
At the end of June 1977 they reached $920 million or the equivalent of about
1 year's imports. This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings, a rela-
tively high level of foreign aid and last but not least, the country's limited
absorptive capacity. Yemen's imports are still at a low level ($135 per capita
in 1976/77) and are likely to grow rapidly as present physical and administra-
tive bottlenecks are being overcome. Worker's remittances and aid inflows, on
the other hand, are of more volatile nature and their volume could change sub-
stantially within a relatively short time. Yemen's present comfortable reserve
position may therefore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded quickly if
recent trends in foreign exchange flows are not sustained. The reserve posi-
tion has also to be viewed in the context of the country's dependence on agri-
culture and its vulnerability to the vagaries of weather. A repetition of the
severe drought which gripped YAR from 1966-72 would necessitate the import of
foodstuffs in even higher than the present volume adding substantially to the
country's foreign exchange requirements.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
30.       The proposed credit would be the fourteenth to YAR, bringing total
IDA commitments to $121.3 million. The utilization trend of the funds from
the ongoing credits has been fairly satisfactory. Disbursements in FY76 were
$10.8 million and in FY77 $19.2 million. At the end of the third quarter of
FY78, total disbursements were $50.6 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and Bank grants and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects, as of March 31, 1978.
31.       The major focus of the World Bank activity in YAR has been to develop
the basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure, prerequisite for
development, and to begin lending in the dominant productive sector--agricul-
ture. In 1971, the Bank made a grant of $200,000 to help finance, jointly
with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and



-8-
economic advisors; in September 1973 a second Bank grant of $200,000 to make
possible the continuation and expansion of the planning team services, was
approved. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant of $120,000 to
provide for the continuation of the services of a planning team including
those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait Fund joined
with a grant of about $425,000. The team has been and still is instrumental
in assisting the Central Planning Organization (CPO) in formulating its
development strategy, in preparing policies needed to implement the strategy
and in training Yemeni staff in the CPO. The Bank is also providing technical
assistance for institution building to the Ministry of Agriculture through the
services of seven advisors, financed by UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency.
32.       To assist in building up the essential physical infrastructure and
related institutions, IDA has extended two credits for highways, one in 1972
for $7.7 million and the other in 1975 for $9.0 million, which also helped to
create and support a national Highway Authority. The Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development joined the latter with $5 million equivalent. To expand
YAR's inadequate port facilities and to strengthen its management capabilities,
IDA approved in May 1977 a credit of $6 million for a port development project.
The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development participated with $8 million
equivalent. IDA extended a credit for Water supply in Sana'a in 1974 for $6.3
million, a credit for Water and Sewerage in Hodeidah in 1975 for $8.1 million,
and in December 1976 a credit for the Second Sana'a Water Supply and Sewerage
Project for $10.0 million, all three of which support the National Water and
Sewerage Authority. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development contri-
buted $21 million to finance the sewerage component in the Hodeidah project
and $17.1 million to finance the water supply component in the second Sana'a
project. The Saudi Fund for Development provided $14.5 towards financing part
of the cost of the latter. To assist in the development of education, IDA has
extended two credits, the first in 1973 for $11 million, which together with
aid from UNDP, Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the United Arab Emirates,
financed expansion of teacher training and secondary and vocational education;
and the second for $8 million in 1976 which is a followup to the first project.
To develop infrastructure and production in YAR's major sector, agriculture
and agro-industries, IDA has made four credits. The first credit of $10.9
million in 1973 was for the Tihama Agricultural Development project, to which
the Kuwait Fund contributed $6.4 million; to meet major cost increases, the
Kuwait Fund approved in 1975 a loan of $9.6 million to the project, and IDA
also approved a supplementary credit of $10.3 million in March 1976. The
second agricultural credit of $10.0 million was made for the Southern Uplands
Rural Development project in 1975 in which the Abu Dhabi Fund participated
with $10.0 million. The third credit of $5.2 million for a Grain Storage and
Processing project was approved in June 1976. The Saudi Fund for Development
joined with a loan of $11.0 million under parallel financing arrangements. A
fourth credit of $5.0 million for a livestock credit and processing project
was approved in October 1976. The Kuwait Fund ($11.6 million), the Netherlands
($8.9 million) and the UK ($2.4 million) are participating in the financing of
the project under parallel financing arrangements. A $2.3 million credit for
an Industrial Estate project was approved in 1974 and is designed to stimulate
investment in small-scale industry and provide a model for future industrial
development.



-9-
33.       Future World Bank activity will concentrate on reinforcing the in-
stitutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agricul-
ture and public utilities, help provide the necessary manpower training, and
continue to help devise an appropriate development strategy and investment
program. Particular attention in preparing future projects will continue to
be given to the country's ability to implement these projects and to ensuring
the availability of key staff and other means needed for successful implemen-
tation. In keeping with this strategy a textiles project, an agricultural
project in Wadi Rima, and a power project were appraised in October/November
1977. Furthermore, an agricultural project in Wadi Mawr, a fisheries proj-
ect, an education project, a water supply and sewerage project in the cities
of Ibb and Dhamar are in the preparation stage. The World Bank lending
strategy recognizes that YAR is among the 29 least-developed countries as
classified by the U.N. and thus requires special assistance, which justifies
IDA financing of a large part of project costs, including local expenditures.
Since project costs are in excess of the limited IDA funds available, efforts
have been made to obtain co-financing from other donors. In addition to its
own commitments of $109.8 million, IDA has also, since 1973, successfully
played a catalytic role through its projects in securing about $143.0 million
equivalent of cofinancing from other aid donors (Arab Fund $38.1 million;
Kuwait Fund $41.5 million; Abu Dhabi Fund $11.0 million; United Arab Emirates
$8.0 million; Saudi Fund for Development $25.5 million; UNDP $6.6 million; FRG
$0.58 million; the UK $2.4 million and the Netherlands $8.9 million). YAR's
level of poverty and the weak structure of its balance of payments have in the
past justified a large portion of local currency financing by the Association;
however, YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its develop-
ment expenditures in the future. Recently, the Bank assisted the Government
in establishing a Project Monitoring System to ensure effective project
implementation and to enable it to measure the progress made against the set
targets. The system is now under implementation and the Bank has been
requested by the Government to continue its assistance in this field.
34.       The Executive Directors of the International Finance Corporation
approved on April 11, 1978 an investment of $3.15 million to help finance
a dairy and juice project. This is IFC's first activity in YAR.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
Background
35.       Until the late 1950s modern transport infrastructure was almost
non-existent in YAR. Primitive tracks, suitable only for four-wheel drive
vehicles and animal transport, connected major towns and were the only means
of land transport. Air service was not available within the country. Port
facilities were limited to the ancient port of Mocha, suitable only for
lighterage. It is, therefore, barely two decades since the first links of a
modern transport network were established in YAR.



- 10 -
Development of the Transport System
36.       Initial development of YAR's transport system was on a project-by-
project basis, financed by external assistance. Although this development
took place outside of any formal framework of national transportation planning
until 1971, the initial investments in transport infrastructure were, in fact,
logical and undoubtedly represented projects of high priority. In 1958, the
Government initiated construction with assistance from the USSR of a new port
at Hodeidah. Thereafter, a small international airport was built in Sana'a
with the aid of the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) which provided adequate
terminal facilities with no provision, however, for night landing. Recently,
another port at Salif was built mainly to export salt from a nearby mine. A
bitumen surfaced road from Hodeidah to Sana'a, and a gravel road from Sana'a
to Mocha through Taiz were constructed between 1957 and 1970, with the assis-
tance of People's Republic of China (PRC), the USSR, and USAID. Since 1970,
FRG has financed the paving of the Sana'a-Taiz road, while the IDA credits
have helped finance the construction of the Taiz-Turba and Taiz-Km 64 roads,
the latter being the final link in the paved road system connecting the three
main cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah, and which also constitutes a major
section of the road link from Taiz to the port of Mocha (see Map). The World
Food Program and various agricultural projects have also helped to construct
and to improve feeder roads. Whilst the present transport system represents a
significant and essential infrastructure development and a prime element in
YAR's development, much remains to be done in the sector and particularly in
the fields of highway maintenance and planning.
Transport Policy and Planning
37.       National planning and coordination of investments in the public
sector including transport is the responsibility of the Central Planning
Organization (CPO), while the Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities
(MPWM) is generally responsible for project implementation and administration.
The Highway Authority (HA) established as an autonomous agency in 1972 with
the IDA's assistance under the First Highway Project and which is under the
jurisdiction of MPWM implements highway projects by itself or jointly with
contractors. It is also responsible for maintenance and for providing the
detailed inputs for highway planning. The Ports and Marine Affairs Corpora-
tion (PMAC) is responsible for port management and execution of port projects.
38.       Road transport is in the hands of the private sector.  The Govern-
ment, however, regulates the schedules of public transport and haulage routes.
Controls are administered so that there is competition in road transport, in-
cluding virtually free entry of new firms into the industry.
39.       While the transport sector has received high priority in YAR's pre-
vious Investment Program (1974-77), transport project investment decisions
have been essentially on an ad hoc basis but, as mentioned earlier, the
investments have generally been economically rational and responsive to basic
development needs. However, now that obvious transport priorities have been
met and the basic transport and road network is in place, to ensure efficient
allocation of resources, the identification and timing of future highway



- 11 -
investment should be done in an overall framework which can only be provided
by a highway master plan. The urgency for the development of such a plan
is emphasized by the recently drafted Five-Year Development Plan (1976/77-
1980/81) which proposes the expenditure of US$1.1 billion on transport of
which US$1.0 billion is proposed for highways. Whilst the modal allocations
are proportionally about right, these amounts may need further review once
the highway master plan is completed.
40.       Until recently, feasibility studies in the transport sector and the
highways sub-sector have been carried out with external assistance under the
auspices of CPO. The highway and port studies financed by UNDP, and later by
Kuwait Fund and the Association (under two ongoing highway projects and a
port project), have been of particular assistance in project preparation.
Recently, the Highway Authority established a central planning section within
its main office in Sana'a. It is, however, not adequately staffed to perform
this function. As an initial step towards strengthening HA's planning capa-
bility, under the Second Highway Project, IDA assisted in the provision of some
technical assistance to HA for planning.  Under the proposed credit, further
technical assistance will be included for strengthening the HA and for the
preparation of a national highway master plan which would identify high
priority investments in the highway sub-sector and would ensure that the
investments will be based on a rational plan. This effort would be a first
step towards starting overall transport planning in the highway subsector.
Ports
41.       YAR has three ports:  Hodeidah, the principal port which is cen-
trally located, handles over 90 percent of general cargo traffic and all oil
imports; Mocha, a small lighterage port, is well located to serve the pros-
perous Taiz district and handles about 8-10 percent of the total general
cargo; Salif is a natural deep-water harbor with a modern salt-loading pier
but has no general cargo facilities. The expansion of the facilities at the
port of Hodeidah is being assisted through an IDA credit approved in May 1977.
The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is co-financing this project
with IDA. The USSR is also assisting in the port expansion effort.
Airports
42.       Besides the international airport at Sana'a, YAR has two civil air-
ports which also handle international traffic, at Taiz and Hodeidah. They
are the responsibility of the Civil Aviation Authority which is attached to
the Ministry of Communications.
The Highway Sub-sector
43.       The 1977 highway network in YAR totals somewhat over 4,000 km, of
which about 1,100 km are paved and serve as adequate links for the main urban
centers. About 700 km are gravel, and the rest are earth tracks. Both
primary and secondary roads need improvement and upgrading as the country
further develops, a matter which will be addressed by the highway master plan
which will be prepared under the proposed project (para. 40). A significant



- 12 -
portion of the paved network, whilst adequate, is beginning to show signs of
structural distress due to vehicle overloading, a much higher volume of traffic
than anticipated, and lack of commensurate maintenance--all symptomatic of the
rapid economic growth during the past 3-5 years.
44.       The main constraints for the development of the highway sub-sector
are: (i) the shortage of qualified staff; (ii) the need for a comprehensive
training program, in particular, for road maintenance technical staff; (iii)
the lack of adequate routine road maintenance; (iv) the lack of vehicle load-
ing controls, and (v) the lack of a highway master investment plan. The
proposed Project would provide assistance to the Government in overcoming each
of these deficiencies.
Organization of Highways Sub-sector
45.       The Highway Authority (HA) is an autonomous Government organization
with its own capital (primarily in the form of equipment) and is controlled by
a council of ex-officio Government directors. Its chairman is the Minister of
Public Works and Municipalities. HA consists of central units for planning,
design and administration with four regional offices for construction and
maintenance.
46.       The serious shortage of staff at all levels has impaired the ability
of the HA to efficiently undertake the maintenance that the expanding and
increasingly heavily used highway network requires, and to meet the ambitious
objective of the Five-Year Plan. While there is no immediate or easy solution
to these problems, the Government is acutely aware of the situation. The HA
intends to alleviate this deficiency, for the short term, by recruiting staff
from abroad and, for the long term, by a comprehensive training program for
technical staff. Provisions have therefore been made under the proposed proj-
ect for training and direct staffing assistance to the HA. On the other hand,
there has not been accurate or strict accountability as to the proper use of
maintenance funds. To overcome any possible misallocation of maintenance
funds, the HA in 1977 established separate Construction and Maintenance
Divisions. To help strengthen maintenance operations, assurances were given
by the Government during negotiations that the construction and maintenance
activities will be functionally separated (Section 4.05 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
47.       Road maintenance funding has grown significantly since 1974/75 when
the Government first made YRls one million available under its annual budget
for this purpose. The allocation for 1977/78 is YRls 32 million, which is a
reasonable and adequate allocation at this stage of YAR's development.  More
importantly, the Government has prepared a three-year road maintenance program
with assistance from consultants under the Second Highway project. The Gov-
ernment has also prepared a special maintenance program for urgent repair
works and a pavement strengthening program for all main roads. Arrangements
have also been made to carry out urgent repair works and periodic maintenance
both by contracts and force account on the Sana'a-Taiz and Sana'a-Hodeidah
roads. Routine road maintenance will be carried out under the direction of



- 13 -
the new Maintenance Division of the HA. The staff shortage in the HA, how-
ever, continues to hamper the effective implementation of the maintenance
program.
Vehicle Loading
48.       Much of the paved highway network in YAR was designed and constructed
in the late 1960s and early 1970s for an 8 ton axle loading--a reasonable limit
in the light of road transport prognosis at that time. However, as a result
of the very rapid growth of the economy in the recent years and the generation
of extremely heavy traffic, signs of structural distress are now apparent.
The Government is aware of the problem and in response has developed, with the
assistance of consultants under the Second Highway project, satisfactory new
design standards based on 13 ton axle loading. It has also decided to estab-
lish related vehicle regulations and proposes to initiate a vehicle load con-
trol system and, at the same time to develop a pavement strengthening program.
These are important matters on which work has to be initiated immediately if
the existing road infrastructure is not to deteriorate rapidly. The project
as proposed would assist the Government in achieving these objectives (para.
55). In February 1978, the Government passed the required legislation to
establish a 13 ton axle loading policy. In view of the importance of the
vehicle control regulations, agreement was reached during negotiations that
the Government will implement the regulations within three years of credit
signing (Section 4.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement), by which
time it is expected that procurement of equipment and construction of vehicle
loading stations would be completed.
Training
49.       As mentioned earlier, the shortage of qualified personnel at all
levels has seriously hampered the operational performance of the HA including
its maintenance program. Although the HA has taken some steps in the past
few years to strengthen its personnel management and improve its salary policy,
it has not yet been able to recruit qualified personnel in the numbers needed
and to retain the existing limited number of competent staff. Under a UNDP/
ILO Project, a Vocational Training Center (VTC) was established in Taiz in
1971. By the end of 1977, the Center had trained and upgraded the capabili-
ties of only 60 mechanics. Because of the shortage of instructors, suitable
training equipment and materials, the VTC has not been very successful in
meeting the training needs of the HA. The staff of the VTC will continue
their assignments under UNDP financing until the end of August 1978, when it
is expected that the proposed Third Highway project will take over training
functions. The need to train new recruits, as well as to retrain and upgrade
the performance of existing staff, will necessitate an expansion and strength-
ening of the existing training resources. Funds will be provided for this
purpose under the proposed credit.
50.       For the training of professional staff, the Government has embarked
on a long-term program of sending students abroad for university and other
higher education to be trained in a wide range of disciplines. Government-
sponsored students are bound to work for a period with Government after gradu-
ation, generally, equivalent to that of their training. Secondary school



- 14 -
education has also been stepped up commensurately. However, it will be some
years before suitable candidates are avrailable to the HA from these sources.
The proposed project will assist by providing direct technical assistance to
the HA to meet some of their immediate and medium term staffing needs.
Previous IDA-Financed Projects and IDA Role in the Highway Sub-sector
51.       IDA's involvement in this sub-sector commenced in 1972 with the
financing of the First Highway project, which consisted of the construction
of the Taiz-Turba road (about 69 km) and the provision of technical assistance
to the HA. After long initial delays in the implementation of the project,
arising from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the
Government arranged for force account execution of the civil works by the HA.
The technical assistance component of the project also encountered some dif-
ficulties and, due to incompatibility between the consultants and the HA, the
consultants were replaced by a new consultancy firm, the services of which
proved satisfactory and were continued under the Second Highway project. The
construction of the Taiz-Turba road is expected to be completed by mid-1978.
The HA has obtained valuable construction and management experience from the
First Project. In 1975 IDA approved another credit for a Second Highway
project which consisted of the construction of the Taiz-Km64 road and con-
tinuation of technical assistance to the HA. Both components are now nearing
completion.
52.       The first two highway projects have substantially improved the
various aspects of highway operations in YAR despite the shortage of local
counterparts. The projects assisted the HA towards: (i) separating road
construction from its other public works; (ii) improving its management struc-
ture; (iii) building up its road construction capabilities; (iv) initiating
an equipment hire pool; (v) initiating a road maintenance program; and (vi)
initiating studies aimed at introducing vehicle loading controls.
53.       Bilateral aid (e.g. Saudi Arabia, the Federal Republic of Germany,
Iraq and the United Arab Emirates) continues to be available to finance spe-
cific major improvements and construction in the highway sub-sector. As a
result, IDA proposes to concentrate its efforts on further institution build-
ing of the HA, highway maintenance, planning and rational consolidation of
the network, all of which are featured in the proposed Third Highway Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
54.       The project would be a follow-up to the First and Second Highway
projects. It was prepared by the HA assisted by its technical assistance
consultants and appraised in November 1977. Negotiations were held in
Washington from March 13 to 16, 1978. The YAR delegation was headed by H.E.
Abdulla Al-Kurshumi, Minister of Public Works and Municipalities. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Third Highway Project, Yemen Arab Republic"



- 15 -
(No.1854a-YAR) dated April 3, 1978 is being circulated separately to the Execu-
tive Directors. The main features of the Credit and the Project are mentioned
in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area
is attached to this report.
Project Objectives and Description
55.       The project is aimed at helping the Government to overcome the major
constraints to highway development (para. 44). To this end the project focuses
on institution building of the HA, highway maintenance and the consolidation
and rational development of the highway sub-sector. Other immediate needs for
major highway construction are mostly being accommodated from bilateral sources
(para. 53).
56.       The project comprises:
(a)  Road Maintenance;
(b)  Vehicle Loading Controls and Strengthening of Paved Roads;
(c)  Highway Planning;
(d)  Technical Assistance to the Highway Authority (HA); and
(e)  Training.
57.       Road Maintenance.  Under the Second Highway project the HA has, with
the assistance of consultants, developed a three-year highway maintenance pro-
gram for 1978/79-1980/81. The proposed project would provide for: (i) three-
year road maintenance program (1978/79-1980/81); (ii) additional road main-
tenance equipment and associated spare parts required for the maintenance
program; (iii) workshop equipment; and (iv) maintenance depots at five new
centers, mechanical workshops, warehouses and offices at three new regional
centers. During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that
the HA will adequately maintain the highway system and road maintenance equip-
ment and will provide the required funds for these purposes (Sections 4.03
and 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government also
confirmed that the training activities would continue beyond the three-year
program included in the project.
58.       Vehicle Loading Controls and Strengthening of Paved Roads.  Tech-
nical assistance under the Second Highway project has provided the fabric
for a national vehicle weight control policy and a program for strengthening
paved roads. The proposed project will assist the Government in meeting its
objectives with regard to both upgrading existing paved roads to the recently
adopted 13-ton axle limit and exercising control over the limit through the
construction of five vehicle weight control stations, including supervision
of construction (about 40 man-months); it will also include (i) detailed
engineering for about 120 km of overlays to strengthen existing roads (about
60 man-months); and (ii) strengthening with an asphaltic overlay of the Taiz-
Km3 road, a section of high priority, heavily trafficked road.



- 16 -
59.       Highway Planning.  To assist the HA in preparing a highway master
plan coordinated with the national five-year development plan, the proposed
project would provide about 50 man-months of consulting services (Section 3.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  The highway master plan would
form the key intermediate link towards efficient implementation of investments
in the highway subsector. The preparation of the master plan is expected to
be completed in 1979.
60.       Technical Assistance to the Highway Authority.  The HA is seriously
short of staff, particularly, at the mid and upper levels and hence is expe-
riencing difficulty in carrying out many of its functions. Longer term train-
ing and improvement in the employment policies should eventually alleviate
this situation. To enable the HA to improve its operations in the short/
medium term, the project would provide for the recruitment of about 20 expa-
triate staff (about 630 man-months) to fill critical on-line positions for the
duration of the project. The qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment of these experts will be satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Training.  As a corollary to the staffing situation, the project
focuses on the training requirements of the HA to deal with its longer term
staff needs. A comprehensive training program, building on earlier activi-
ties, will be developed. Whilst all HA functions are covered by the program,
the emphasis will be on highway maintenance. Towards this end, the proposed
project would provide for: (i) buildings and their furnishings for trainees
at the Taiz HA training center; (ii) equipment for the training center at
Taiz, workshop and engineering equipment, transport and vehicles and training
aids; (iii) expatriate training staff (about 420 man-months) to administer
the HA training division and to provide required instructors for the training
program (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (iv) about
thirteen fellowships for technical HA staff in fields to be determined as imple-
mentation of the training program progresses. The proposed three-year training
program aims at improving the standard of highway maintenance through training
and upgrading the capabilities of about 600 to 700 road and equipment main-
tenance personnel including foremen and supervisors, equipment operators and
drivers, mechanical maintenance personnel, storekeepers and accountants. The
duration of the different training courses will vary from about four to sixteen
weeks and will use training-through-production methods. If the HA is able to
retain the services of a significant portion of these trainees, they should
satisfy a major part of the skilled manpower required for this expanded main-
tenance program.
Implementation
62.       The HA would be responsible for implementing the project, including
the implementation of vehicle loading controls within 3 years of credit sign-
ing (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The HA would
be assisted by consultants for training, supervision of construction of the
loading control stations, buildings and overlays, engineering of future
overlays and the development of a highway master plan. Engineering for the
overlay of the Taiz-Km3 section has been completed and the HA has already



agreed to carry out the detailed engineering of the vehicle weight control
stations through the services of consultants. To ensure timely start of
project implementation, the appointment of the equipment procurement officer
as well as the chief engineer will be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The position of chief engineer is not included in the 20 experts to be financed
under the technical assistance component of the project since it is hoped that
this post will be filled with a Yemeni. However, if this does not prove
possible in the short run, the post may be filled by a suitable deputy chief
engineer in an acting capacity. The deputy chief engineer is one of the posts
to be provided for under the technical assistance component. It is expected
that the project would be implemented over a three and one half-year period.
Project Costs and Financing
63.       The estimated cost of the project including contingencies is $55.3
million with a foreign exchange component of $28.5 million. In view of the
prevailing circumstances in YAR's construction industry, a special risk allow-
ance of 25 percent has been provided on the project construction cost. This
allowance is based on the premium paid on four recent major road construction
contracts. The proposed IDA credit of $11.5 million would finance, under
parallel financing arrangements the foreign exchange costs of (i) five road
maintenance equipment contracts; (ii) the preparation of a highway master plan;
(iii) technical assistance to the HA for key on-line staffing; (iv) technical
assistance to implement the HA's training program; (v) training equipment; and
(vi) engineering for road strengthening. The Government's direct contribution
of about $5.0 million would finance the local cost of the items to be financed
under the IDA credit and under loan(s) for other co-financier(s). Funds from
other external co-financiers would finance the balance of the project capital
cost. Both the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development and the Saudi Fund
for Development have been approached to fill this gap. The Saudi Fund for
Development has recently expressed interest in co-financing this Project with
the YAR Government and IDA. The signing of loan agreement(s) between the
Government and other external co-financier(s) for an amount of $11.0 million
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. Details of the
cost estimates and financing are given in the Credit and Project Summary. In
addition, the Government would allocate from its general budget to the Ministry
of Public Works and Municipalities $27.8 million to cover the IHA's recurrent
cost of road maintenance for the three-year road maintenance program.
Procurement
64.       Equipment contracts under IDA financing will be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement," March 1977. Consultant services under IDA financing will
be provided by qualified and experienced firms who would be employed in
accordance with Terms of Reference and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Sec-
tion 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Direct recruitment to
fill the on-line posts in the HA will be carried out by the HA itself. The
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of the on-
line experts will be subject to IDA approval (Section 3.02 of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Disbursements
65.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would finance 100 percent of
the foreign exchange costs of: (i) five road maintenance equipment con-
tracts; (ii) the preparation of a highway master plan; (iii) technical assis-
tance to the HA for a training program and for key on-line staffing; (iv)
training equipment; and (v) engineering for road strengthening.
Environmental Impact
66.       No adverse environmental impact is expected.  The enforcement of
vehicle controls would improve the safety for vehicles and pedestrians.
Economic Benefits
67.       The project would provide direct benefits to the YAR economy by
reducing vehicle operating costs, and indirectly by providing a framework for
improved management and rational investment for highways in the future. Road
users who will benefit from the project come from every income group in YAR.
The trucking industry is competitive and can be expected to pass on its bene-
fits to consumers.
68.       The quantifiable elements of the project which can be economically
analyzed are the Taiz-Km3 overlay and the road maintenance program. The
benefits of both arise from reduced vehicle operating costs. Based on the
most probable estimates of costs and traffic, and taking into consideration
the prevailing interest rate in YAR which is about 13 percent and which can
be taken as a fair approximation of YAR's opportunity cost of capital, the
overlay has a benefit cost ratio of 1.8:1.0. Similarly for the road main-
tenance program the benefit cost ratio is 4.0:1.0. Although standard methods
of economic justification cannot be applied realistically to the training
component of the project as an individual entity, it is a crucial element in
the implementation of the proposed maintenance program. Consequently, it may
be considered a part of the cost of the maintenance program as a whole. Even
on such a conservative basis the benefit cost ratio for maintenance and train-
ing is 2.0:1.0.
69.       The cost of technical assistance directly associated with the admin-
istration of the maintenance program is included in the overall economic cost
of the maintenance program which is eminently justified. The rest of the
technical assistance costs, while not directly assignable to precise project
elements, are critical to the effective functioning of the HA. The average
cost of one man-month of technical assistance is estimated at about $8,750.
This includes local costs and expected price escalation.
70.       Although a standard measure of economic justification has not been
applied to the development of a highway master plan, the loading control
stations or the overlay studies, they are all costs of maintaining and build-
ing up a viable highway system and preventing misallocation of resources in
highway investments. The master plan cost and the costs of the overlay studies
represent cost of projects not yet analyzed. The loading control stations are



- 19 -
an integral part of a larger cost (user, construction, maintenance and control
costs) which was found to be the least cost solution to the question of whether
there should be axle loading limits imposed in the YAR and, if so, what they
should be.
Overall Economic Justification
71.       The three elements of the project which have been directly justi-
fied (i.e., the maintenance, training and overlay construction components)
represent 86 percent of the projected project costs. These project elements
show an overall Benefit:Cost ratio of over 1.9:1.0 or an economic return of
over 100 percent.
Project Risks
72.       With most institution building projects, there is considerable risk
of not achieving complete success. However, even a moderate success would
have an important impact in the context of the YAR situation (para. 44).
Although these circumstances have existed to varying extents in the course of
past IDA lending to YAR for highways, the two previous projects have assisted
the HA to improve its capabilities since it was founded in 1972.
73.       There is also a risk that the HA will not be able to recruit and
retain its on-line technical assistance experts because of the demand for such
expertise in the whole area. However, experience under other IDA financed
projects indicate that expatriate expertise, whilst not readily available, can
nevertheless, be found.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
75.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex III. Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement provides the following additional conditions
of effectiveness: (i) the appointment of a chief engineer and equipment
procurement specialist; and (ii) the signing of loan agreement(s) between
the Government and other external co-financier(s) for the amount of $11.0
million.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By I. P. M. Cargill
Attachments
April 13, 1978
Washington, D.C.



-  21  -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
YEMEN ARAB REP      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ---------------------
---------------                                  YEMEN ARAB REP                       REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       195.0                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      15.2                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE           AFGHANISTAN   NEPAL           JORDAN****
GNP PER CAPITA (uS$)                        ..         .      250.0*              100.0*      70.0*      320.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MiD-YR. MILLION)                        5.5**     6.0**              12.3       11.3         2.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SOUARE KM.                                  28.0       31.0               19.0        80.0        24.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND                  362.0      395.0               96.0       284.0       165.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE C/THOU. AV)            .       50.5 /a   45.8                48.7   4.7              47.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)             ..      24.1 _K   26.9                27.6        24.6        17.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..         ..      159.0                         200-300       36.3 /a,b,o
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         ..                 37.0                37.8        40.6        50.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..       3.5        3.5                3.4         3.0         3.5
POPULATION (TOWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                                       1.9***/a           2.2         2.1         3.1
URBAN                                  ..         ..        8.0                5.2         3.9
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)             ..        ..        70                 10.7        4.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.3       44.1       46.8               43.2                    47.0 /a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       54.0       53.2       49.7               54.2          ..        49.57a
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7        2.7        3.5                2.6          ..         3.57 a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9        1.0                0.            ..         1.0 /a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..        ..        2.2/b                *-          *         2.47'ad
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS  CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..        ..         ..                  ..       86.5
USERS (C OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..                  ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)              ..        ..    1140.0 /C                ..          ..      350.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)           ..         ..       7 3.0                .. .o.                33.0  a
UNEMPLOYED (C  OF LABOR FORCE)            ..        ..                             ..          ..       14.0 /a
INCOME DISTRIBJTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                  ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                  ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                  ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                  ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_____________-_______________-
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..        ..                  ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         ..                  ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           143500.0   31340.0  23260.0               14E80.0    49770.o/a   2680.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..         ..  16830.0             21080.0    35600.0 ai,b 1050.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               ..              2060.0                   *-     6750.0       960.)
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         82.0       71.0       83.0               80.0        94.0        94.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              65.0       62.0      58.3                58.0        52.0        60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       14.8/b   14.1                 11.0        11.0        18.0/e
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..         5.0/b
EOUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        8.0       10.0       23.0               21.o/a      26.0        73.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      0.2        1.0        2.0                6.0 .T.                33.0 T
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                                                   -
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                ..      12.0       12.0               12.0        10.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                        ..       2.2        3.0                4.0         6.0         3.0/af
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 10.0        * -  10.0                    10.0        14.0
HOUS I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..       3.0                  ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                         .-        *-       90.5                97.0/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..        4.6                  ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..         ..        1.3                  ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            -          ..       13.0               21.0         5.0       160.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             ..         ..         ..                3.0         0.4         7.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             2.0       3.0         7.0               32.0         6.0        72.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..        ..         ..                 0.1           .         03
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
nless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
GNP per capita deta are based on the eorld Bsnk Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
PopoLotion includes residents living abroad vhioh is aetisated at 1.2 million in 1975.
Doe to enigr-tion popelation grevth rate in lowr thbs the rats of natural increass.
Jordoc hoe been selected as an objeotive conttry for Yemen Arab Rapoblic since both are Arab coontries with similar economic systems; have no
Inporton_ oinerl resources, have large n-mbere of emigrants hose remittan-es sobtrsatfaily finance the import bill, and both depend on
foreigo oil to support large portiors of their turrent and government expenditure.
YEMEN ARAB REP.    1970    In  Eitinoted birth end death rate- for 1970 are 47.3 snd 28.7 respectively;                  /b  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /I  1972-75;    /b  Ratio of resident poplatlo  asder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;
It  Labor force relates to resident pop.lation of 4.7 nillion only
EFGHANISTAN          1970    /0  Public edocation only;    /b  Percentage of population.
NEPyL                1970    /I  Personnel in governmest services;    /b  lscluding  idwivea.
JORDAN               1970    L.  Ea.t Bank only;    /b  1966;    /c  Registered only;    /d  Ratio of popolation under 15 and 65 and over to totl
labor force;      In  1964-66;    7   Incloding UNRWA schools.
R4, March 27, 1978
DEfrINITIONS OF SOCLAL INDICATORS
Lend Area isbot  kle)                                                                        Po..latios per moraine nperon - Popeletior divided by smbter of practicing
Total -        -otal syrfian  area conpriaing lend area sod isled waters.                     els  nd fsle gradwate s              trses,  trained" or n certified" nrses, and
Agric  - Most nooens satirote or a8ricoltura  are -              seed tasperarily or pas-      *utiliary per.orqel with training or eperience
meetly fon cro-p, psatores, market 6 kitchen gardens or co  is falnoe.                     Ps.slation ear hospital bed - POpulation divided by .maber of hospital beds
available in poblic and prie ts general and specialised hospita1 and
GNP net ca'ita '1U0) - ON' per capita estimates at enrrant market prices,                      rehabilitation csntsrt; esIldss onrsing hones and establish..ents for
celcoleced by sas Ion,version  method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                   cnatodial and preventivCe care
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                  Per capita sanely of oslenis  i7 of rmqnirasents) - Compus-d fre  sengy
eq1ivaleet of set food sopplies available in ncoutry par capita per day
Paorplatio  and vital soanintin,                                                               available sepplis  -npriss demestic prodaction, import- less esporst, snd
Poenletion  (mid-year million)   As of Joly first:  if sot avaiiable, average                  changs in atock; set spplies elads animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-year estimate-; 160, 1970 fnd 1975 dat                                           in fond processing and losses in dietribstion; reqoirmesnts were estimated
by FAO based on physislgial needs for nor nl sotivity sod health consid-
Ponulantin dsnaitv - est snuare mI  - Rid-por pepslatie  per eqoare kilemeter                  oriLg  nvironaant-l tesparatore, body weight, age and see dietribetlons of
P100 bectaresI of total area.                                                                popolatin, and allowiag lOt for waste at hbeashold level.
p2nolation density-          ensare km1 of  reic, land - Ctmpered as sbhes fet               Pa rents fonnor of rrsie  (gr-_  wer day) - Protein  -onre-c of per nopita
agricultorsi land only                                                                       net sopply of food per day; net supply of geod is degised as above; rquire-
tenta for a11 coastrise  estblished by VSISA EconoAic Researoh Ssroices
pitel statievtin                                                                               provide for a misi-ana  olleannef 60 gr    of total proteis psr day, and
Erode birth rate pet thoend. averams - Annal live birthe per thoo.sod of                       20 grs of animal and pulse protein, of whith 10 gra   shoold be anil
mid-year popelatian; ten-year aritasrtin avnagsa ending in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; these standards oer  Iaser thee these of 75 gr    of  total protein
And five-year averege ending in 1975 for nest rees_t estimate,                                nd 23 grass of   nial pretein as en average for the wend, propesed by FAu
C_eds dssth rats ept thassed. seerags - Aenoal d-atBe per thenasod of mid-yeat                  in the Third World Fond Sary.
popeletion; tee-year aritiestit averagea ending is 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per istue Protein  sorely  iron asimal and sole - Protein sopply of food
year average ending is 1975 for mast rensert satiete.                                         derived fron asiaisas and polses in grass per dsy.
Infant ecrrality rate (/that) - Annusl d.athe of infants ondar one year of age               D-Bth rate (/thea) sees 1-4 - Aenual deaths per thoo.and to aSs g-rop 1-4
per thso.and live birth.,                                                                    yeer, to children in thia aSe group; soggested as an indicator of
Life enpeotancv at birth (era) -Avsraf5 mashr of years of life remining at                      m-trition.
birth; _s_nlly five-year aonrsgea ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for da.lvpp-
ing .o-ntrieo.                                                                             Edacation
Cros- rentOduCtiOs rate- Avergsne mer of live  daughters * eaen will bear                     Ad1rted semolLosent ratio - primary school - Esroli-ent of a11 agas sa Per-
in her coredl  reproductive period if sh  esperienees present age-scific                     csetage of priry school-age popisleti" o; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; sesIly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      hot adjoated for different lengths of primary edoostibn; for cow-tries with
for devslcping cow-tris.                                                                      soiversal education, enroilnent may exceed 100%  sne ioas pupils are beloc
foriation Rrovth rats- (i) - total - Cepeed a*o-I growth rates of mid-year                      or above the official   ho    ge.
popsUavion for 1950-60, 196f-70 and 1970-75                                                 Adis=ted  aetnllisnt ratio-secnnd-r  scheel - Cbeput.d s above; senondory
population greath rate (2) - urban - Captsd like growth rate of total                           ed..atims raqeiree at las.t four year of approved primary inat-nctios;
popsiatios; different defisitien   of urbhn areas my affact tceparability of                  provides g          neral. eostienal er toarher traisieg isetrootiosa   r  pupils
data -onog  m""tries.                                                                         ef 12 to 17 years of ago  enreapondnne nonras  are generally secluded.
Urban penolatiem  (7 of total) -  fftie ef -rben to total pepolation; differ nt               Year of sohecline  erovided  tfirmt and asoond levels) - Total years of
definitione of nrbeo  aress may  tfft temparability of date amosg nonerrias                   aeheeling; at secondary level, veestionl intructioen say be partially or
nespltely eoied.d
Age strocture  (percent) - Children (0-14 years), corking-age (15-64 years),                 Vonstional sorollnt (Z of secondary) - Vocatmonal in6titutin  incoIde
and retirsd  (60 years  and aver) as parosntages of mid-year population.                      technical, indatrial or other Programs  hich operte independetly o
A8e de:pode.cy ratio - Ritio of population sedrr 15 and 65 and over to these                    dsparotnet- of secondary institutions.
of agee 15 tbroogh 64.                                                                      Adoit lite racy rate (7) - Literate adolts (able to read and wite) as per-
Econemic deopodeocy ratio - Ratio of population  -nder 15 and 65 and over te                    oentage of total adult peoplation aged 11 years and aver
the labor force in aSe group of 15-64 years.
Familv vl-nning -_accetor  (crasulative. then) - Cuul-tive .-eher of anreptorm                o
of birth-centrol devices uoder a..pices of national fEaily pleneing program                 Prsena  ner ro-  (lurba) - Average somber of per-ons par roem in occupied
sInce tocEp"'cnenioa  dwellings in urbas area.s; dwellings se lade no-permanent
Fnily plannies - osers C% of married  wemeel - Percentages of mrtried ween of                   troclures sd sunocupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 yssra) eke use birth-control dev-tes to all earned                 focriied dwellings  withwt piped water (7) - Occupird conventional dwellings
semein toas  agr groop.                                                                       in urban and  -or1 area   ithost iseide or cateida piped aster rf-ilitiss
vpas percentage of all ocspid dwelings.
manloveent                                                                                    Anressa  eeietririvy  00 of al dvelliny) - Conveatinoal dwellings with
Total labor force (thius -d) - E-noneically active persons,  iecluding amed                     electricity in living quarters as peroest nf total dellig  in             n ad
foross  nd  -nempleyed bht emoloding housewives, st.dent, eto.; definitions                   r       .ral srsan.
in variou   -ontries  et  not rn-paabe.                                                     Rora7 dwellings  nonesoted to  elentricity (7) - C-epoted as above for rur-l
Labor  fon   i   eiolo         0 -tAgninol t-rI laker fcros (is frming, fcr.atry.               deiliogs only.
bunting and fishiog) as percentage of total I-bnr forms
Unnmoloyad  (2. of labor fernel - Unployed are s-eally defined as persons who                 Coneasetion
are able and villing  is cake a -I  h, ont of a job on a gives day, rm ed wt                Radio receivers (pfr thno psp) - All types of receivers for radIo broadoast
of  a job, and seeking vrk for a specified minions peried not esoseding one                   to general poblic per tho.ssnd of pepulation; esniadee oniceesed receie
week; may not be cnepar-ble between .ountrien doe to different definitions                    in co-ntries And in years chee rhsgstrstiem  of radio sets was in effeot;
of unemployed and sonroof datetM pe, e.g., eploynemt office statistics, .aple                 date for recent years may not be cotparable since nest vownies abolished
or_eys  osopulsory4soeploynt inoe-os...                                                      liensing.
Pssne   en(err then  ecel - Passenger oars nemprisa emtar oars seating
IncoD  distribotion - Per-ent.ge of privats incom   (both in ..eh and kind)                      ;    he ight per           Iodes   builane, hearses and  ilitar
received by richest 5%, rioheet 20E, poore-t 20%., nd poorest 40% nf ho-es-                   vhil. nes.
holds.                                                                                      Eleottiniti  (kth/yr Per nap) - Annual nobentption of industrial, naserci.I
peltad pivte eti'ntrieity in kil-sett boors per capita, gene.rally
Di.tribution of land owner-hiP - Perenttge  of l-d own-d by we-lthiest 10%                     b aed on prod-tion data, withnot allean          fos fer lemssa in grids hotall-
and poereat 10% of land ontert.                                                               ing for iLports amd esports of ele1tririty.
Newsprint (kg/yr  e  c-Ml - Per .apita ann.a.   oonssasption in kilngra
Hnalth  and Natriti                                                                             esima.ted iron domaetin prsdoction pins sot imperts nf newprint.
Populatics per physician - Pnpalation divided by nobher of pr-cticing
physicians qoalified fron a medical school at ueiv-r-ity leyvl.



- 23 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS           ANNEX I
ECONOMI  INDICATORS  Page 3 of 4
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76
US$ Min.    %
GNP at Market Prices         1,630      100
Gross Domestic Investment    260         16
Gross National Saving          390       24
Current Account Balance        130        8
Exportsof Goods, NFS            65        4
Importsof Goods, NFS           414       25
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value  Added       Labor Force   V. A. Per Worker
(US$Mlh)      %      Thous.  %      us            %
Agriculture                  512        45      800   73        640         61
Industry                     117       10        90    8      1,300        123
Services                     522       45       200   19      2_610        247
Total/Average         1,151       100    1,090  100       1,056        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75        1975/76
-----     YR Million ----------------- % of GNP
Current Revenue                       199         277         381       565         8
Current Expenditure                   272         323         472       604         8
Current Deficit                       -73         -46         -91       -39        -1
Development Expenditures                57        139         185       340         5
External Assistance (net)             117         239         536       609         8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
------------ June 30 ------------------
1972     1973      1974      1975      1976     1977
------- (YR Million Outstanding End Period) -----
Money Supply                           348      489       640       964    2,028    3,516
Bank Credit to Gov't. Sector          103       102        70      -162     -407      -939
Bank Credit to Non-Gov't Sector       108       169       238       394      566    1,474
(Percentages of Index Numbers)
Money Supply as % of GNP                15       16        17        18        28
Consumer Price Index                    ..       ..       154       203       237      329
(1972 = 100) /1
Annual percentage increase 2n:
Money Supply                         29        41        31        51      110        73
Consumer Price Index                  ..       ..        ..        32       17        39
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/   For Sana'a only (fiscal years)          2/  During fiscal year ending June 30.
Not available



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77
- Million US$ ----------
Exports of Goods, fob               14        13       12        19
Imports of Goods, cif              194       258      382       730
Trade Deficit                     -180      -245     -370      -711
Non Factor Services, net            14        17       21        -3
Factor Income, net                 117       203      479       889
Workers' Remittances, net        112       191      457       842
Investment Income, net             5        12       22        47
Balance on Current Account         -49       -25      130       175
M & LT Capital, net                 62       126      158       146
Official Grants                   33        93      114       104
Official Loans, net               29        33       44        42
Disbursements                   32        37       47        46
Repayments                      -3        -4       -3        -4
Other Capital, net 1/               11        -3       -2       126
Increase in Reserves (-)           -24       -98     -286      -447
Gross Reserves (end fiscal
year)  2/                         89       187      473       920
EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1977        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
US $ Mln.                                %
Total outstanding           529     Cotton and Cotton Products  59
of which disbursed        292     Coffee                        12
3J               Hides & Skins                 12
DEBT SERVICE RATIO-N4OR 1976/77     All other commodities         17
___         Total                   100
Total outstanding
and disbursed             1       IBRD/IDA LENDING                US$ mill.
(as of March 31, 1978)         IBRD  IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed         -  50.6
Through Feb. 1973                 Undisbursed                       -  59.2
Oustanding including
US $ 1.00 = YR  5.00                  Undisbursed                   - 109.8
YR   1.00 = US $0.20
Since Feb. 1973
US $ 1.00 = YR 4.50
YR 1.00 = US $0.22
1/ Includes errors and omissions.
2/ Central Bank holdings.
3/  Includes workers' remittances                              April 4, 1978



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1978 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                         (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose                IDA      Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                   7.7         0.1
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture   21.2 /1           6.2
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                 11.0          4.3
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply               6.3          2.0
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate          2.3          1.2
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development    10.0              8.0
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                  9.0          0.9
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage         8.1          5.6
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                 8.0          6.6
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing           5.2          4.4
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing       5.0          4.0
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage            10.0          9.9
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development          6.0          6.0
Total                                               109.8         59.2
Of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                               109.8
Total undisbursed                                                 59.2
/1   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1978)
See para. 34.



26 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of $200,000, equivalent, was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team
of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The Executive Directors approved on September 11,
1973 a second Bank grant of $200,000 equivalent to make possible the con-
tinuation of the services of the planning team. The Kuwait Fund joined with
a grant of about $300,000. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant
of $120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning
team including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait
Fund also joined with a grant of about $425,000.
D.   Projects in Execution
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; $7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972; Effective-
ness Date:  January 15, 1973; Closing Date:  September 30, 1978.
After long initial delays in the implementation of the project
arising from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the
Borrower has arranged for force account execution of the 69 km Taiz-Turba road
construction; the work started in March 1975 and is now progressing satisfac-
torily. New consultants for the technical assistance component of the project
have been appointed. Most of the road and engineering equipment included in
the project has been delivered. The road construction is expected to be com-
pleted in mid-1978.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; $10.9 million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and $10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution,
was set up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end
of 1973. Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed
specification drawings of all the required contracts. Nine contracts for
preliminary works including camps, access and field roads and extension
offices were awarded to local contractors. Six of them have already been
completed and one nearing completion. Three major contracts, one each for
the construction of diversion weir, canals and the regulating gates, were put
to international tendering. Construction work on the diversion weirs has been
completed, the regulating gates are being installed and the canal will be com-
pleted by October 1978. The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) was established
towards the end of 1974. The Credit Manager and the Field Manager for the ACF
have been appointed. ACF's operations in the project are highly satisfactory.
The total cost of the Project was revised to $40.8 million compared with $17.5
million at the time of initial appraisal. At the Government's request the
Association and the Kuwait Fund agreed to provide supplemental financing. The



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Kuwait Fund approved in December 1975 a supplementary loan of KD 2.8 million
and the Association approved on March 30, 1976 a $10.3 million supplementary
credit for the project. The reappraisal estimate of December 1978 for project
completion is expected to be met.
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Following initial delays in recruiting staff for the Project Unit
and the UNDP/UNESCO Task Force, project implementation is now about 24 months
behind appraisal estimates. All site problems have been resolved. Construc-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily, with 80 percent of institutions anticipated
to be completed by October 1978. With the exception of one school, all equip-
ment and furniture contracts have been awarded and delivery has commenced.
The most critical aspects of the project are the difficulty to recruit expa-
triate and trained Yemeni staff for project institutions and the absence of
funds to finance technical assistance and fellowship costs formerly anticipated
from UNDP. The UNESCO Task Force is being phased out by December 1978, but
refinancing of some posts in critical areas would be necessary. The Associa-
tion and the Government are pursuing discussions with some bilateral agencies
in order to rectify this situation.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Sana'a Water Supply Project; $6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: September 28, 1979.
Civil works are virtually completed with only reservoir testing :aid
final site work remaining. The drilling and well construction program has
been completed and pipe laying is progressing.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Tenders for civil works were received in the last week of October
1975 as scheduled. The lowest bid was for more than double the appraisal
estimate which had been prepared in early 1973. This high cost is due to
the unexpected increase in building costs that has taken place since project
appraisal. In the light of this cost increase and at the Government's
request, the Association agreed to retain the highest priority items in the
project. The Development Credit Agreement was amended accordingly. Con-
struction works started in February 1976. Two of the three buildings are
completed and the third is expected to be completed by end March 1978. Many
entrepreneurs have already signed lease agreements with the Industrial Estate
Development Authority and other parties have showed interest in either rent-
ing factory space or developed plots.



-28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start in project implementation, the project encoun-
tered management, staffing and organizational problems. Since the fall of
1976 progress has been encouraging. Project Management has improved and most
of the staff positions have been filled. Agricultural extension, veterinary
and credit activities are progressing very satisfactorily. Problems of cost
escalation will be met by reducing the number of loans that can be made to
farmers. Well drilling and the village water supply component has commenced.
A contract has been entered into with the Ministry of Public Works for the
rural road component. The ACF component is being implemented very satisfac-
torily.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; $9.0 million Credit of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction of the Taiz-Km 64 road was completed in November
1976, and the 2-1/2 years technical assistance consultancy to the Highway
Authority has until May 1978 to run.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Completion of the well drilling program has allowed for the imple-
mentation of remedial works and associated construction in the well fields.
The draft tariff study report has been submitted by the consultants. Govern-
ment's prompt decision to proceed with a reduced scope of works has permitted
the consultants to finalize tender documents for civil works, mechanical/
electrical and pipe installation.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Commendable progress has been made in the physical implementation
of this project which is proceeding on schedule. Completion of construction
is expected by June 1979. The Project Unit staff is supervising all construc-
tion. Preparation of bid documents for furniture and equipment for the eight
project institutions has been completed and bidding is anticipated shortly.
Following the establishment of the National Basic Training Board, an initial
deposit of $50,000 has been made to the Basic Training Fund. Disbursements
from the Cre'dit are proceeding satisfactorily. Severe constraints have been
placed on achieving the educational objectives of the project due to lack of
progress in financing and recruiting expatriate and Yemeni staff for the
project institutions. The Government is aware of this serious situation and
discussions with bilateral agencies are being held.



-29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The expatriate project manager and his local counterpart, had been
appointed prior to negotiations. Contract negotiations with the engineering
firm Oscar Faber have been completed and the firm has commenced work on the
project. The sites for the silo, the Government bakeries and the warehouses
have been acquired and properly demarcated and the preparation of the silo
site at Hodeidah has commenced. Four Yemenis are undergoing undergraduate
training in the USA and two are presently undergoing non-graduate training
in the UK in financial management. Bids for the silo, warehouses and bakeries
are being evaluated. Project implementation remains on schedule. A silo
superintendent and an accountant (both local) have been appointed.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project manager and practically all expatriate staff are in the
field together with the Co-Manager and some counterparts. Cost escalation
was resolved in a meeting of co-financiers in London in October 1977 by reduc-
tion and/or reorientation of some components without changing the project
concept. Government sites for the two dairy farms, two slaughterhouses and
the fattening farm have been secured and quotations received for housing,
equipment and well-drilling. The planning phase for construction of the
project components is about complete and it is expected that the project
will now move into the construction phase.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts have been awarded for the well drilling program and for
the supply of materials for the water system house connections and sewer
appurtenances. The consultants have completed the project reports for
water supply and sewerage as well as for the laboratory installation. The
draft tender documents for water transmission and distribution mains are
under review. Preparation of the water supply and sewerage feasibility
study for the towns of Ibb and Dhamar was delayed due to the absence of
base mapping which is now being provided by the consultants. Completion
of the draft study, however, is still scheduled for September 1978. Award
of the contract for the construction industry study was delayed because
the Government requested additional proposals from consultant firms.
These are now under review.



-30-                          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 17, 1978; Closing Date:  March 31, 1982
The Port Engineer and the engineering consultants have been appointed.
The engineering and soil studies on berth No. 5 have started and are expected
to be completed in June 1978.



- 31 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by YAR to prepare the project:    15 months:  August 1976-
November 1977
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:   Highway Authority
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:          August 1976
(d)  Date of first Bank mission to consider           August 1976
the project:                                  (Identification mission)
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:          November 2, 1977
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:             March 16, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   September 30, 1978
Section II:  Special Implementation Action by IDA
A.   None at this stage.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of effectiveness of the Development Credit are as follows:
1. The appointment of an equipment procurement officer and a
chief engineer (paras. 64 and 75(i));
2. Signing of loan agreement(s) between the Government and other
external cofinancier(s) for an amount of $11.0 million equivalent
(paras. 63 and 75 (ii)).
B.   Measures agreed upon by the Government include:
1. The employment by the HA of on-line staff with job specifications,
and terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para. 60);
2. The employment of qualified consultants for training, master
planning and engineering with terms of reference acceptable
to the Association (paras. 59 and 61);



- 32 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3. That all roads will be adequately maintained in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices and that funds, facili-
ties services and other resources required therefore will be
provided promptly as needed (para. 57);
4. The implementation of a training program (para. 61); and
5. The construction and maintenance activities of the HA will be
functionally separated (para. 46).



7Rg     N 4,L 07^llAL  4,  1<<                            S ) 5   A U D I  A R A BI5 A                                                YYEMEN    ARAB   REPUBLIC
:t%j~26 ~&tAANA~                       SATA.,HIGHWAY  NETWORK
ARD0E                                                                                                                       FIRSt.  ,   ,,  ,    -  TR  A/AD SAC/S   H  LTSGI-WAYPROJECT
L - 4 i ~; ,'( ;; Nrj MaladF fr K-    6 i /CA'Jd WA-    19MBn
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       .                                             -6 P.A rAI H. ;                 S/'AA/ /9./0,81 T
HfA             :                                 3                   I                                     0                                        C.A  RA/ 1./r, HId,R i R*_ \t4)_b_In/-A/A  /Rd /80udA15
RICO                                              *      /o.,d ' ,  C  .   \, T - - /
,          ,           ,  ._~~~~~. ,.> ,,,I CR11  I/SASS4h                          /''         '
, , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~001                                                                    UTA  Cd. t  ,*~ JaFAR+,' CA~AAflnY;r   19/0,
0 0                         / .   Al iDShirO  = <      <     H4;}                  AwSh;<.   /   ,;_l__
0  ;; ,+ C ~~fli                                                                   h(r >                                                   n.)  Cd /l C,/eI;  AA MaInhPT
0  CAIARATAACFTAAS          FT. R
010.; 6/                                             ,O_>afaEN
Al 0o."/                                                         o    sI                        C =I              40        0        80 r
C0                              M~       u_                                      l   PEOPLE[         DE ORAI RC APBI                     OF   YLEMEN
' ~~~~~Al 5 4 LDS    
'4a                                                                                                                        A,
A  i Kl-kW.
ETH  IOI                                                                                                                                                         .4 
AA
4<A ./'
/~~~~~~~~~~~ ,/OR                                                               ,./IT   ,?     _,- <4')        /f
/4R ~ ~      ~      ~     .TAI                 0          X/~                                                                             pJ0             'R       -'0    ;ta  w lifw-4r - Y Y frft0              
C'Th,S c . 4b'              ;           .M             PEPE   DEMOrA'TIC  REPUBLIC  OF  Y  gEMEN_



