DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. PU-lOla
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
OF THE
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
SENEGAL
October 19, 1972
West Africa Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCI EQUIVALENTS                         WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
US$1         = CFAF255.8                       1 km  = 0.62 mile
CF.AF- US$0.003909                              1 km2   0.386 square miles
CF.4y,O00,000 = US$3,909
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBR3VIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
CCCE               - Caisse Central de Cooperation Economique
(French Lending Agency)
Carrier            - A system providing several channels through one
transmission mode
Channel            - Frequency band of a carrier system carrying
telephone, telegraph or data signals
CCITT              - Comite Consultatif International TÈlÈjphorique et
T&4graphique (International Telephone and
Telegraph Consultative Committee)
CAPTEAO            - Conference Administrative des Postes et
T41Èconmunications de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(West Africa Post and Telecommunications Organization)
FAC                 - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Development Aid
Agency of the French Government)
FOR                 - Compagnie France Cables et Radio
HF                  - High frequency (3-30 MHz)
ITU                 - International Telecommunication Union
MfHz                - Megahertz
Microwave           - Radio system working at frequencies above 300 MHz
but normally applied to systens working at
frequencies above 1,000 MHz
Multiplex           - Part of the equipment in a carrier system -- see
above -- which shifts and stacks the different
circuits in the frequency spectrum appropriate to
the particular carrier sy;tem
OPTS                - Office des Postes et Telecommunications du SÈnÈgal
(Senegal Posts and Telecommunications Office)
SOFRECCM            - Soci4tÈ Francaise d'Etudes et des Realisations
d'Equipements de TÈlecommunications (French consulting
firm for telecommunications studies and equipment
construction)
Telephone Stations - Locations where telephone instruments on direct
exchange lines or extensions are fitted
Telex              - Teleprinter Exchange Service
TETL.FEENAL        - Compagnie des TÈL6conimunications Internationales
du Sdne'gal (International Telecommunication Company
of Senegal)
UAMPT               - Union Africaine et Malgache des Postes et Tele'-
communications (African and Madagascan Post and
Telecommmnication Union)
UNDP                - United Nations Development Program
VHF                 - Very high frequency (30-300 MHz)
VF                  - Voice frequency (300-3,h00 Hz)



SEi`EGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELSCOIUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL  (OPTS)
APPRAISAL OF A TLECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TABIE OF COCNTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CCNCLUSIONS  . ..............................           .......       i - ii
1.      INTRODUCTION   .....           .........................................
2.     THE ECONOMY AND THi          L TECICOM>UNICATIONS SECTOR ....         ..........     2
The Economy           ................................................               2
The Telecommunications Sector .......................... ..........                 2
Sxisting Telecommunications Facilities  .....................                        3
3.     THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT   . ............................. .                      5
The Program       .......................................... .                      5
The Project ...          .............................................              5
Cost of the Project ........ ................................                       6
Items ?roposed for Bank Financing                  ..........................       7
Procu:rement   ..............................................                        7
Execution    ............................................... .                       8
Disbursement  ........... .....................................                      8
h.     JJUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT  **.            ............................           9
Demand for Local Telephone Service  .....              ...................           9
Demand for Long-Distance Service  ......               .....................       10
Least-Cost Solution               ........................................         10
Return on Investment  ........          .......................                    il
5.     THE BORROWER ..           .............................................             12
Organization and Management .................................                      12
Staff and Training  .........................................                      13
Accounting and Audit  ........            ...............................           13
Tariffs  ..................................... ....... 0............               14
6.  FINANCES ........     .......16
Telecommunications  - Past Finances  .....              ....................        17
Telecoimunications  - Financing Plan  .....              ...................       18
Telecommunications  - Future Finances  .......................                     20
7.     RECOMMEKNDATIONS             ...................... ... ....................        23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. P. Bassole, J. G. Davis, B. Johnsson and D. Jordan who visited
Senegal in April 1972.






LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   International Sector Table - Telecommunications
Organization Chart - WB-6872
2.  Existing Telecommunications Facilities
3.   Traffic Statistics
4.   The Project - Cost Estimates
Construction Schedule of the Project - WB-6871(R)
5.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.  Economic Analysis of the Project
7.   Summary of Tariffs
8.   Telecommunications Division - Income Statements
9.   Telecommunications Division - Balance Sheets
10.   Telecommunications Division - Sources and Applications of Funds
11.   Telecommunications Division - Notes and Assumptions on Financial
Statements
12.   Telecommunications Division - Rate of Return (1977-1980)
13.  Postal/Financial Division   - Financial Aspects
14.   Postal/Financial Division   - Income Statements
15.  Postal/Financial Division   - Balance Sheets
16.   Postal/Financial Division   - Sources and Applications of Funds
Existing Telecommunication Network and Telecommunication Project -
1973-1976 - IBRD-10046






SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
APPRAISAL OF ¿ TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
it.       The project appraised in this report forms part of the 1973-
1976 telecommunications rehabilitation and development program of the
Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Senegal (OPTS), for which a
Bank loan of US$6.25 million is proposed. This would cover 92% of the
foreign exchange cost of the project; the total project cost is estimated
at US$8.9 million equivalent.
ii.       The program, estimated to cost US$12.6 million, comprises on-
going works carried over from an earlier development program and new works
to be undertaken through June 1976. The greater part of the new works are
included in the project appraised in this report.
iii.      This would be the Bank's first telecommunications project in
Senegal. OPTS would be the borrwer and would carry out the project with
the assistance of consulting engineers.
iv.       Since 1969 OPTS has been undertaking urgently required improve-
ments in its telecommunication network located in the southern region of
the country. In a second program it now proposes to deal with the remain-
ing priority needs of the Dakar urban area and the northern region of Senegal.
The four-year project proposed for Bank financing provides for the rehabili-
tation, expansion and modernization of local and long distance facilities,
in particular the installation of a modern microwave link between Dakar and
Richard Toll, and a VHF/UHF link along the line of the Senegal River from
Richard Toll to Bakel. The proposed works aim at providing better communica-
tion facilities in areas of administrative and economic importance and in
those regions having greater potential for economic development.
v.        OPTS, which operates all the domestic public postal and telecom-
munications services in Senegal, is a well-managed entity. Although postal
operations are carried on at a loss, because of its profitable telecomuni-
cations operationss OPTS has always made a surplus from its overall opera-
tions. The Government and OPTS have agreed to carry out a number of required
changes in OPTS's accounting and financial administration including the esta-
blishment of analytical accounts to show the separate results for postal/
financial and telecommunications operations.  Ih the past the Government has
been slow in settling its bills for telecommunications services.  However,
it has now decided to liquidate its arrears, according to a specific timetable
satisfactory to the Bank, and to promptly pay its future bills.
vi.       OPTS is required to deposit all its funds with the Public Treasury.
Owing to the limited funds available in the Treasury there have been delays
in the settlement of bills from OPTS's creditors. In order to ensure that
no delays occur in the execution of the project and as a protection for OPTS's



j- i -
credit rating, the Government has agreed to transfer funds equivalent to
that part of the program not finmnced by the Bank to an independent bank
account outside Treasury control..
vii.      The project is technically and financially sound and economical-
ly justified. The economic rate of return is estimated to be at least 14%.
Surpluses from telecommunications operations, which would be available for
covering postal/financial deficits and for tr‡nsfer to Government, are ex-
pected to continue to be satisfactory and during the project construction
period should be equivalent to about 7% per annum on telecommunications
equity after financing 46% of the program requirements.  Present indications
are that some reduction in telecommunications tariffs may be possible towards
the end of the proposed program construction period should the Government so
wish. This will be confirmed by a tariff review to be made by mid-1975.
viii.     All equipment to be firnanced under the proposed loan would be
procured through international competitive bidding.
ix.       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$6.25 million.



SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECCªIUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
APPRAISAL OF A TEIECOMMJNICATIONS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Senegal has asked the Bank to help finance
a project formring part of the 1973-1976 teleconnnunications rehabilita-
tion and developnent program to be undertaken by the Office des Postes
et Telecoxnmunications du S4rldgal (OPTS), the entity responsible for
postal and public telecomnmunication services in the country. The pro-
ject proposed for Bank financing provides for additional automatic
switching capacity in Dakar, new automatic exchanges in eight provincial
towns, the rehabilitation and expansion of associated local networks, and
the expansion and modernization of long distance switching and transmission
facilities in the northern region of the country.
1.02      The estimated cost of the program, including the project and
ongoing works from the previous program, would be about CFAF3.2 billion
(US$12.6 million), of which the cost of the project would be about CFAF2.3
billion (US$8.9 million). The foreign exchange component of the project
would be about US$6.8 million equivalent, of which the Bank would finance
US$6.25 million.
1.03      This would be the Bank's first loan for telecommunications in
Senegal. OPTS would be the borrower,
1.01;     The first contact with the Senegalese Government regarding the
financing of a project for the telecommunications sector was made in 1969.
In April 1969 a mission composed of Messrs. M. V. Scoffier and J. G. Davis
ider.tified a project which would be suitable for Bank financing and could
fornm the basis of OPTS's 1973-1976 teleconmunications development program.
Subsequently, during program preparation, feasibility studies were under-
taken by the French consultants, SociÈtÈ Francaise d'Etudes et de Realisa-
tions du Equipment de Te1'lcommunications (SOFREC(CM), on the main items of
the project. The studies were financed by UNDP and were carried out in
1971-1972 in accordance with terms of reference prepared by the Bank, which
acted as executing agency. The contents of the project were finalized in
December 1971 during discussions in Dakar between representatives of the
Goverument, the Bank, OPTS and the consultants. An appraisal mission com-
posed of Messrs. P. Bassole, J. G. Davis, B. Johnsson and D. Jordan visited
Senegal in April 1972. This report is based on their findings.



- 2 -
2. THE ECONOMX AND THE TELECOMMUNICATICNS SECTOR
The Economy
2.01      Senegal, about 200,000 Ám2 in area and situated on the western-
most part of Africa's Atlantic coastline (see Map), has a population of
some 4.0 million, growing at 2.2% per year. Most of the people live in
the west-central and southern regions. The 1971 GDP per capita was about
US$2h5. Senegal is primarily an agricultural country. The principal crop
is groundnuts, which account for half the total agricultural production and
provide 80% of the total export earnings. Other important food crops are
cereals, mainly millet and sorghwn. Commercial fishing is expanding rapid-
ly, as is tourism. The industria:l sector consists mainly of the processing
of food and raw materials for export, such as groundnut oil, canned fish
and phosphates, the latter being Senegal's major mineral resource.
2.02      Inadequate telecommunication services -- particularly in Dakar,
the country's capital, main port and commercial center, and from Dakar to
the developing regions of the northern provinces -- constitute an important
gap in Senegalts economic infrastructure. Good telecommunication services
are essential for providing exchange of information between the producers
in the provinces and Dakar's commercial enterprises. By providing good
quality service, the project would increase the efficiency of transport and
contribute directly to the development and integration of economic and ad-
ministrative activities in the areas concerned.
The Telecommunications Sector
2.03      Telecommunications in Senegal date from the former Federation of
French West Africa, when they were operated as a Government service under
the authority of the High Commissioner for French West Africa and the gover-
nors of the various territories. When Senegal joined with Mali to form the
Mali Fbderation in early 1959, domestic and some African regional telecom-
munication services were transferred to an autonomoas entity, Office des
Postes et Tel4communications de lEL Federation du Mali.  Responsibility for
the main international services remained with a French company, France Cable
et Radio (FCR).  On the break-up of the Mali Federation in 1960, the domestic
and regional telecommunication services were transferred to the present en-
tity -- Office des Postes et T4Ôe#communications du SÈ'nÈgal (OPTS). The main
international facilities continuecl with FOR until 1968, when they were trans-
ferred to TELESENEGAL, a company jointly owned by the Government and FCR with
the Government having 40% of the capital. With the exception of the military,
civil aviation, railway and broadcasting services, which as is usual in most
other countries, have their own telecommunication networks, OPTS provides
aill the domestic telephone, telegraph and telex services and a few regional
connections to West African capitals (see para. 2.10). OPTS also operates
the usual postal services, a nationwide public cheeking account service and
the national savings bank.



-3 -
2.0k      The telecommunications sector, which is satisfactorily organized,
is under the overall direction of the Ministry of Public Works, Urban Affairs
and Transport. The Ministiy is the licensing authority for the sector, but
control is exercisedf mainl:v through ministerial representation on the Boards
of OPTS and TELESENEGAL. The arrangement of having two entities, one (OPTS)
for domestic and limited regional service and the other (TELESENECAL) for
international service over longer distances and between continents (see para.
2.10) is satisfactory and provides for economic operation. Investment in
the sector is coordinated within the plan for national economic development
by the Secretary of State for Planning. The institutional structure of OPTS
is discussed in paragraph 5.01.
Existing Telecomnunications Facilities
2.05      As of December 31, 1971, Senegal had about 28,500 telephone sta-
tions, giving a telephone density of 0.7 per 100 population; this is high
when compared with reighboring countries but is mainly due to the large
number of telephones in Dakar.  In Annex 1 are comparative statisties for
other developing countries. OPTS's first development program, which is ex-
pected to be completed in June 1973, provides for expanding the facilities
in the country's southern regions in order to improve the quality of service
there.  In the Dakar area and the northern provinces, however, service is
still extremely poor; the local exchange plant in many areas is obsolete or
worn out and needs to be replaced with modern equioment. Long-distance
circuits are congested and there are long waiting periods before calls can
be made. The basic data on OPTS's existing facilities, with traffic figures,
are set out in Annexes 2 and 3 and the Map.
(a) Local Telephone Service
2.06      Senegal has 15 automatic exchanges -- six located in the Dakar
urban area and the remainder in the central and southern regions. The Dakar
area has an exchange capacity of about 11,800 automatic lines, of which 2,h00,
located in three exchanges, are worn out and obsolete; they are a major cause
of poor service in Dakar. Another 5,000 automatic lines, located in the main
Dakar exchange, are likewise old but can continue in operation a few more
years before being replaced. In the provinces, present capacity is about
5,900 lines, of which 3,200 are automatic and 2,700 are manual. Many of the
manual exchanges are very old and worn out, and consequently service is poor.
The outside plant in the Dakar urban area and northern provinces is also in
poor condition and in many areas is in need of expansion and rehabilitation.
(b) Long Distance Service
2.07      Apart from one cable between Dakar and Thiès and a tropospheric
scatter link between Dakar and Ziguinchor, the domestic long-distance net-
work is mainly based on the use of open-wire lÓnes, supplemented with carrier
equipment and HF radio. At the end of 1972 the tropospheric scatter link
will be withdrawn from service when a new high-capacity microwave route is
commissioned; this will enable subscriber trunk dialling to be introduced
for subscribers along the route.



- h -
(c) Telegraph and Telex Services
2.08       OPTS does not have a separate telegraph network and uses the
equipment on its long-distance telephone routes for its telegraph service.
2.09       Telex service is provicled by two exchanges: one in Dakar having
a 300-line capacity and the other in Ziguinchor with a capacity of ten lines.
As of December 31, 1971, the total nuaber of subscribers was 223.
(d) International Service
2.10       International telephonel, telegraph and telex services are offered
by both OPTS anid TELESENEGAL. OPTS has direct HF radio links with the capi-
tals of neighboring countries (DahLomeye Guinea, Gambia, Ivory Coast, Mali,
Mauritania, Niger, Portuguese Guinea and Upper Volta). TEIESENEGAL provides
all other international services, either by direct HF radio circuits or
through the recently inaugurated (April 1972) earth satellite station.



3. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
3.01      OPTS's 1973-1976 telecommunications expansion program aims at
rehabilitating, modernizing and expanding the principal local and long
distance facilities in Dakar and the northern provinces of Senegal, in
order to improve the physical condition of the network, eliminate con-
gestion, improve the quality of service and meet anticipated demand
through 1978.
3.02      The approved progran, which has been drawn up by OPTS with
the assistance of the consultants SOFRECOM, comprises:
(i)  the remaining ongoing works of OPTS's 1969-1973 development
program including the construction of a microwave link from
KaoLack to Bathurst (Gambia) under a joint UNDP/OPTS project;
and the planned expansion of existing telex facilities by
100 lines;
(ii) the project for Bank financing as described in para. 3.03;
and
(iii) small construction works in areas outside those covered by
the project.
The cost of the program is estimated to be US$12.6 million equivalent,
of which the foreign cost would be US$9.2 million equivalent. Annual
capital expenditure for the program is shown in Annex 4.
The Project
3.03      The project proposed for Bank financing consists of:
(i)  the provision of automatic switching equipment for 8,300
lines, 6,300 of which will be installed in the Dakar
area and 2,000 in the eight northern provincial towns
of St. Louis, Louga, Richard Toll, Dagana, LinguËre,
KÈb6mer, Podor and Matam; 2,400 of the new lines to be
provided in the Dakar area will replace obsolete
switching equipment;
(ii) the rehabilitation and extension of the existing cable
distribution networks in Dakar and the provincial towns
mentioned in (i) above;
(iii) the construction of a microwave link between Dakar, Thidss,
St. Louis, and Richard Toll with associated multipleidng
equipment, initially for 140 channels and switching equipment
to provide subscriber trunk dialling;



- 6 -
(iv)  the construction of a VHF/UHF link with ten spur links
along the Senegal River from Richard Toll to Bakel;
(v)  the rehabilitation of the open wire line and installa-
tion of new carrier equipment between Louga and LinguÎre;
(vi)  the purchase of miscellaneous equipment including vehicles
and tools;
(vii)  the detailed engineering of the project;
(viii)  the employment of consultants for studies on tariffs and
organization; and
(ix)  the implementation of a comprehensive training program.
Details of the project are given in Annex .
Cost of the Project
3.0      The estimated cost of the project is US$8.9 million, with a
foreign currency component of US$6.8 million.  Details are given below.
% of Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Expenditure
---CFAF million-        --US$ million----
Local telephone service      255    749   1,004   1.00   2.92   3.92        Uh-3
Long distance service
Transmission equipnent      60    452      512   0.23   1.77   2.00       22.6
Trunk switching equipment  10    128       138   0.0o   0.50   0.54        6.1
Land and buildings           142       9     151   0.55   0.o4   0.59        6.7
Miscellaneous vehicles,
tools, etc.                 -       87      87      -   0.3O    0.34       3.8
Consultants:
Detailed engineering        17      94     111   0.07   0.37   0.44        4.9
Other studies               -       18      18      -   0.07   0.07        o.8
Training                              41      41      -   0.16   0.16        1.8
484  ].,578   2,062   1.89   6.17   8.06      91.0
Contingencies:
Physical                    24      79     103   0.09   0.31   0.h0        4.5
Prices                      24      79     103   0.09   0.31   0.40        4.5
TOTAL PROJECT      53   I736   22 126    2.07   6.79   8.86    100.0



- 7 -
3.05      The cost estimates are based on the current level of prices ob-
tained for similar equipment under international competitive bidding and
take into account recent changes in currency parities. A 5% physical con-
tingency has been provided to cover unforeseen design and engineering modi-
fications that might occur. Based on the experience of the last few years
a similar allowance has been provided to cover possible local and foreign
price increases.  During the last 3-4 years prices for local materials
increased by about 3% per year, while wages in the sector have remained
steady. The Goverwment confirmed at negotiations that it intends to relieve
OPTS of customs duties and import taxes on all imported equipment for the
project. Annual capital expenditure for the project is shown in Annex 4.
Items_Proposed for Bank Financing
3.06      A Bank loan of US$6.25 million is proposed.  This would finance
92% of the foreign cost of the project (see para. 3.07). The remaining
foreign costs together with local costs will be financed from OPTS's own
resources. The items proposed for Bank financing are as follows:
US$ million
Local Service
Automatic telephone exchange equipment        1.44
Local networks and subscriber plant           1.40  2.84
Long Distance Service
Microwave link Dakar-Richard Toll             0.96
VHF/UHF link   Richard Toll-Bakel             0.67
Trunk switching equipment                     0.19
Carrier route  Louga-Linguere                 0.14  1.96
Tools and Miscellaneous Equipment                      0.28
Consultants' Services
Engineering                                   0.37
Tariff and organization studies               0.07  0.44
Trainring                                              0.16
Contingencies                                          0 57
Total              6.25
Procurement
3.07      All goods financed by the Bank would be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procure-
ment. Additional switching equipment required for extensions to the exist-



- 8 -
ing Pentaconta exchanges and some vehicles, in all costing about Us$0.5
million, will be procured from existing suppliers, and will be financed
from OPTS's own funds. OPTS purchased the original switching equipment
under restricted bidding procedureis and the prices were higher than those
obtained for similar equipment through international competitive bidding.
Execution
3.08      OPTS does not have the technical expertise to prepare the speci-
fications or to supervise execution of the main works. OPTS therefome
proposes to appoint consultants in accordance with terms of reference accept-
able to the Bank, to advise on the preparation of the specifications and
bidding documents, to assist in bid evaluation, and to supervise execution
of the works. The appointment of qualified and experienced engineering
consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
3.09      The suppliers would construct the main works (exchange installa-
tions, microwave and VHF/UHF links) under the supervision of the consultants.
The suppliers' contracts, which would cover installation and maintenance of
the equipment, would also provide for OPTS's staff to take part in the exe-
cution of the works, to give experience in installation, testing and main-
tenance.
3.10      Construction of buildings and civil works,would be carried out
by local contractors, under the supervision of OPTS's staff.  Rehabilita-
tion of open wire lines, cable-laying and s-ubscribers installations would
be carried out by OPTS's staff.
3.11      The installation and commissioning of all new plant are expected
to be completed by the end of June 1976. The project construction schedule
is given in Table WB-6871 (R).
Disbursement
3.12      The proposed loan would be disbursed against the CIF cost of
imported equipment and the foreigl cost of imported services. The schedule
of estimated disbursement is showni in Annex 5. Any unused balance of the
loan should be made available, after consultation with the Bank, for the
purchase of additional goods and services, similar to those already procured
under the loan, needed for OPTS's ongoing expansion program.



-9-
4. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
4.01      While the project aims at providing the facilities for meeting
the anticipated demand, its principal objective is to improve the quality
of service in the capital city of Dakar and in the inportant areas of
northern Senegal. In these areas the grossly inadequate facilities hamper
economic development and administrative activities. In Dakar, in addition
to expanding the facilities, old and worn out equipment -- the main cause
of bad service in the capital -- will be replaced by new equipment. In
the eight important northern provincial centers, worn out manual equipment
will be replaced and expanded by automatic exchanges which will be linked
with each other and Dakar by a microwave system providing subscriber trunk
dialling facilities. At a later date the microwave route could be extended
to provide good telecormnmunications with neighboring Mauritania.
4.02      The project will provide an important part of the infrastructure
necessary for numerous schemes, particularly those in the agricultural and
tourism sectors, which are scheduled for execution in the Goverrment's
current development program. OPTS's failure to undertake the project
would delay the realization of the full economic benefits from those
schemes in addition to retarding the expansion of the related administra-
tive activities. There would also be a delay in realizing the full
economic benefits from OPTS's investment program presently nearing
completion, in the southern regions of Senegal.
4.03      The project is largely based on demand and cost studies carried
out in 1971 and 1972 by SOFRECOM, the French consultants.  Demand forecasts
have been drawn up after making an assessment of demand in the individual
locations scheduled for development under the project. The forecasts take
into account potential demand in areas presently provided with poor quality
service and the demand likely to arise out of planned future economic
development in those areas.  In addition a conservrative allowance has
been made for the demand arising from a continuation of the recent overall
improvement in economic outlook of Senegal.
Demand for Local Telephone Service
4.04      Over the past few years telephone demand in Dakar as measured
by connected lines has been increasing at only 3-4% per year. While the
low telephone growth rate may in part have been due to the relative
stagnation of the Senegalese economy since independence, one of the major
reasons for lack of demand has been the poor quality of service offered
to subscribers in Dakar and other parts of Senegal. Demand growth has
been significantly higher in other African cities of comparable size,
income and importance. The present program of improvements for the
southern regions, which is nearing completion, and the proposed Bank-
financed project for Dakar and the northern region, will improve the
overall quality of service and thereby remove past supply constraints



- 10 -
on demand for service. Demand for local service in Dakar is forecast
to increase annually by at least 5% up to 1975 and 7% thereafter. The
proposed extension of 3,900 lines to the Dakar exchange in 1975 would
provide sufficient capacity until 1978 and would line up with OPTS's
next stage of expansion, which would coimmence in 1976.
4.05      Demand in the eight provincial towns has been growing at only
2% per year. This low rate of growth has again largely been due to the
poor local manual service provided at these locations and to extremely
poor long-distance services connecting the towns with each other and
Dakar. With the installation of local automatic service and the provi-
sion of a high-quality transmission link to Dakar with subscriber trunk
dialling, demand is expected to increase to 6% per year by 1977. The
proposed expansion would be sufficient to meet this demand.
Demand for Long-Distance Service
4.06      Traffic and circuit requirement forecasts for the Dakar-Richard
Toll microwave route and the VHF links were made by SOFRECOM in 1971 and
were based on traffic studies. Taking into account the effect of improved
quality of service following the installation of the new equipment, it has
been estimated that the long-distance traffic would increase by about 9%
annually through 1976 and 10% thereafter.  This estimate conforms with
experience in sinilar circumstances in other developing countries.
Least-Cost Solution
4.07      OPTS's furidamental network plans have been based since 1968
on the use of common-control switching equipment. In continuance of
that policy, the switching to be provided under the project will follow
the same concept. The size, design and timing of the additions to the
switching facilities and the associated local distribution networks
provide the least-cost solution for the required development.
4.08      The routing and components chosen for the northern Senegal
network represent the least-cost solution for serving the regions con-
cerned. The choice of a microwave system between Dakar and Richard Toll
was made after making comparisorn with the two alternative solutions --
the standard coaxial cable and a small capacity coaxial cable.  The
standard coaxial cable proved tca be the more expensive of the three
systens; the smal1 capacity coaxial cable while having costs comparable
wTith the microwavs system was considered unsuitable because of its
limited capacity.  The microwave system has the added advantage of
providing the basis for future television transmnission facilities.  The
initial equipnent of 140 channels should be sufficient to cover the esti-
mated traffic until 1978.  Further capacity could readily be provided,
if needed, by adding equipment at relatively low cost. For the Senegal
River line and the spur routes, the choice of VHF/UHF as compared with the
alternatives, open wire line with or without carrier equipment represents
the least-cost solution after taking into account future capacity
requirements and maintenance difficulties in the regions concerned.



- 1 1 -
Return on Investment
4.09      A conservative estimate of the rate of return on the project
is 14%.  This rate is the discount rate which equalizes the stream of
OPTS's expected revenues from the project with its capital costs, free
of taxes and duties, and related operating costs. The bases of this
estimate are given in Annex 6. The economic return is undoubtedly higher
because (i) the prices charged do not adequately measure the full benefits
to the economy, (ii) the costs include the full cost of extending service
to new areas, even though the full benefits of these extensions will be
reaped only in future when additional lines are connected in these areas,
and (iii) no account has been taken of the benefits *bo TELESEN3GAL.



- 12 -
5. THE BORROWER
Organization and Management
5.01      OPTS was established on October 3, 1960, as a Goverrment-owned
entity; its organizational structure and management generally follow the
pattern of similar entities of French-speaking African countries.  The
structure of the organization relating to telecommunications operations
is adequate for carrying out the scale of operations over the constructior.
period of the project.  Management is good.
5.02      OPTS has a 15-member Board of Directors, the chairman of which
is appointed by the Minister of1 Public Works, Urban Affairs and Transport.
The chief executive officer of OPTS is the Director, who is appointed by
the President of the Republic and has overall responsibility for the adini-
nistrative, technical and financial activities of the entity.  OPTS's or-
ganization (see chart - WB-6872) is divided into four main divisions --
Postal/Financial, Telecommunications, Administration, Transport and Build-
ings -- each of which is headed by a senior executive responsible to the
Director. In addition to the four divisions mentioned, there are four
small independent groups covering Accounting, Inspection, National Savings
Bank and School, each having a responsible senior officer reporting direct-
ly to the Director. The Postal/Financial Division carries on all the usual
postal services together with a countrywide public checking account service.
5.03      Although the original statutes creating OPTS give it an industrial
and commercial character and endow it with legal personality and financial
autonomy, the latter has been restricted by subsequent statutes under whicn
the financial operations and accounts of OPTS are subject to the control of
the Minister of Finance; in addition OPTS is required to deposit al! its
funds with the Public Treasury.  While this restricted financial autonomy
has not up to now had a detrimental effect on planning and operations, pro-
blers have arisen for OPTS because of the scarcity of Public Treasury funds
and of the resulting delayed settlement of bills due to the entity's cre-
ditors. The consequences of the situation, which is prejudicial to OPTS's
credit rating, are dealt with in paragraph 6.10.
5.0o      OPTS's senior management staff are competent.  The Director is a
man of wide experience in the postal and telecommunication services and a
good manager. The chief engineer of the Telecommunications Division is a
graduate of the French national telecommunications school In Paris and has
occupied his post for the past three years. Other senior engineers have
been trained in the various French telecommunications schools and are ade-
quately qualified to carry out their duties.
5.05      There are 14 French advisers (engineers and inspectors) carrving
out executive duties with OPTS.  Three are assigned to Postal/Financial and
Administrative Di-visions and l  to the Telecommunications Division (four on
switching, four in transmission, one in telex, one in local networks, one
in radio). OPTS presently has 57 local staff of similar categories. Re-
placement of expatriate advisers bas been taking place over recent years



- 13 -
and the number has been reduced from 62 in 1962 to il at present.  Given
the size and content of the proposed program, OPTS considers it necessary
that the present level of technical assistance for telecommunications be
maintained during the period of project construction, which is reasonable
and prudent. French Cooperation Services (FAC) in Paris indicated that
there would be no difficulty in maintaining present technical assistance,
provided that a request to do so is received fron the Senegalese Govern-
ment. During negotiations the Government confirmed that it will make the
appropriate request to FAC. In addition, OPTS agreed to the preparation
and implementation of a program for the selection and training of local
staff to enable them to replace the technical advisers as soon as possible.
A sutm of US$175,000 has been provided in the loan to cover the foreign costs
of this program and the training of other technical staff (see para. 5.07).
Staff and Training
5.06      As of December 31, 1971, the staff of OPTS's Telecommunications
Division, plus other employees who are doing joint postal telecommunica-
tions work, numbered about 1,h00 or about 50 per 1,000 telephones. Con-
sidering OPTS's scale of operations, the overall number of staff employed
on telecommunications is on the high side.  However, as the number of staff
employed full time on telecommunication duties is reasonable, it would
appear that the problem lies in the number of staff who are occupied on
joint postal-telecommunications duties. This matter wilil be investigated
when OPTS reviews its postal/financial operations (see para. 6.02). During
negotiations OPTS agreed that immediately the review of the operations and
staffing of the postal/financial services has been completed and discussed
with the Bank, a staffing program for the telecommunications services, sa-
tisfactory to the Bank will be established and implemented.
5.07      OPTS sends its engineers and senior technicians for training to
telecommunication schools outside Senegal, particularly to the French schools
in Paris and Toulouse. They are also sent to suppliers' factories for ins-
truction. In addition, a national telecommunications school,and a multi-
national school recently established in Rufisque, Senegal by UNDP and the
Senegalese Government, provide adequate training for junior technicians.
In carrying out their duties French technical advisers are also offering
training to local staff. While OPTSts general training arrangements are
satisfactory, during negotiations assurances were obtained from OPTS that
it will review and adjust the numbers of staff required to be trained in
each category. A sum of US$175,000 has been included in the loan to cover
the foreign costs of this program and the specific training program required
to effect the replacement of all the presenttachnical advisers (see para.
5.05).
Accounting and Audit
5.o8      OPTS's accounts are reasonably well kept.  In line with the laws
on accounting and financial control for Goverument departments and public
establishments in Senegal, OPTS's accounting is processed by computer in
the Central Accounting Unit of the Ministry of Finance from information



- 14 -
supplied by OPTS's accounting grcu.p. OPTS's budget is approved and con-
trolled by the Ministry of Finance.  However, improvements could be made.
There have been delays in the recording of investment expenditure and
improvement in internal procedures in this respect is required. A pre-
requisite to good telecommunications development and operation is the
availability of separate accounts for the service. However, OPTS's accounts
only cover overall operations and do not provide separate operating results
and financial positions for each service (postal/financial, telecommunica-
tions). Stores accounting, which is only kept on an annual basis, could be
improved by utilizing available computerized methods. Costing, particularly
for construction works carried out by OPTS's own staff, also needs improve-
ment. In this respect more coordination is needed between the engineering
and accounting services. OPTS's plant inventory, asset valuation and plant
accounts require updating; assets need to be allocated and apportioned be-
tween postal/financial and telecoummunication services. OPTS's telecommuni-
cations billing procedures take tco long; also, excessive credit is given
to subscribers.
5.09      OPTS and the Central Accounting Unit of the Ministry of Finance
have been made aware of these deficiencies and have agreed to make the
necessary changes and improvements. With the continued availability of
French technical assistance to OPTS and the Ministry, all the changes could
be carried out with the present staff, supplemented with limited guidance
by experts in specific fields such as telecommunication stores accounting
and analytical accounting. FAC haLs agreed to provide the required addi-
tional assistance if a request is received from the Senegalese Government.
During negotiations the Government confirmed that it will request the re-
quired expert assistance from FAC. Furthermore, during negotiations OPTS
agreed to establish by June 30, 1974, accounts showing separate operating
results and financial positions for the postal/financial and telecommuni-
cations services as from July 1, 1972; to review and update plant invento-
ries and asset values and where necessary apportion all fixed assets between
the respective services as of July 1, 1972; and in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with the Bank, to implement required improvements in stores
and cost accounting by June 30, 15974, and to establish improved billing and
collection procedures by June 30, 1973.
5.10      OPTS is required to subiit its accounts annually to the account-
ing branch of the Supreme Court for approval.  Given the commercial nature
of telecommunication operations, OPTS agreed during negotiations to engage
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank for the audit of its accounts,
and to submit certified financial statements and the auditors' report within
six months after the end of each fiscal year. In view of the time needed to
complete the accounting changes, the audited statement for FY 1973 will not
be required to be submitted before October 31, 1974.
Tariffs
5.11      Although OPTS's telecomiunications tariffs (see Annex 7) are in
line with those of the French-speaking West African countries, they are
very high when campared with similar services in other developing countries.



- 15 -
Local calls are charged US012 in Senegal, as compared with US¢2-05 in most
countries. OPTS's tariffs are fixed by the Minister of Public Works, Urban
Affairs and Transport after considering the recommendations of the Board of
Directors. However, Senegal generally follows the tariff policies recommended
by the Union Africaine des Postes et TÈle'communications (UAMPT) and the Con-
ference Administrative des Postes et TÈlecommunications des Etats de L'Afrique
Occidentale (CAPTEAO). The forecast financial figures for OPTS indicate that,
on the basis of present high tariffs, telecommunications revenues will be
more than sufficient to meet OPTS's requirements in the period immediately
following the completion of the program (see para. 6.lI).
5.12      While the Government of Senegal may wish to maintain tariffs at
a level which includes what could be considered a tax on OPTS telecommuni-
cations users, it should review OPTS's tariffs to ensure that the tariff
structure will also optimize the development of the network and give the
maximum economic benefits to the country. During negotiations, OPTS agreed
to carry out and complete, no later than June 30, 1975, a limited tariff
study in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and to
make no general change in tariffs without consultation with the Bank until
the study has been completed and a course of action discussed and agreed
with the Bank. A sum of US$25,000 has been included in the loan to cover
the foreign costs of the study.



- 16 -
6. FINANCES
6.01      Since incorporation in 1960, OPTS's overall finances have been
viable, mainly because the surpluses from telecommunications operations,
after meeting investment requirements, have been sufficient to cover the
losses and investment requirements of postal/financial operations. During
the past seven years surpluses froin overall activities have been as fo'llows:
FY             1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972
CFA Francs millions   170   153   182   148   250   360   386 (estimated)
6.02      During the past four years, annual postal/financial deficits have
averaged about CFAF160 million; thiese losses, together with postal/finan-
cial service investment requirements, have been financed from telecommuni-
cation surpluses. It is estimated that since 1960 about CFAF25 million per
year of postal/financial investment has been financed from telecommunications
funds. One of the reasons for the losses on the postal/financial division
is the heavy charges borne by OPTS in operating the public checking account
service. Apart from a small annual fee charged to each depositor, OPTS re-
ceives neither reimbursement for the cost of this service nor interest on
depositors' funds which it is required to deposit with the Public Treasury.
Private depositors' funds alone amount to about CFAF2 billion (uS$8.0 mil-
lion). The Government has now agreed to review this matter and has under
consideration the payment to OPTS of 314 annually on the balances in the
checking accounts of private depositors. Although the receipt of this pay-
ment would help to reduce the annual deficit on postal/financial operations,
it is estimated that an average annual contribution of about CFAFllO million
will still be required to cover losses and investment requirements on these
services during the construction period of the telecomunication expansion
program. In order to ensure the maximum efficiency of OPTS's postal/finan-
cial services OPTS agreed at negotiations that once separate accounts have
been established for postal/financial and telecommunication operations (see
para. 5.09), it would undertake a review of the operations, staffing and
finances of its postal/financial services in accordance with terms of re-
ference satisfactory to the Bank. Given the operaticnal inter-relationship
between the telecommunications and postal/financial services in Senegal a
sum of US$50,000 has been included in the loan to cover the foreign costs
of the review.
6.03      Although the Government is, of course, entitled to withdraw sur-
plus telecommunications funds from OPTS over and above those required for
operations and deve.opment (see para. 6.15), it should not continue the
practice of automatically charging losses and investment recuirements of
the postal/financial division against telecommunications surpluses. For
reasons of operational and development efficiency and also financial manage-
ment, the two services should be considered separately. Therefore, in addi-
tion to OPTS maintaining separate accounts for postal/financial and telecom-
munications operations (see para. 5.09), during negotiations the Government
agreed that before applying surplus telecommunications funds for other pur-
poses, it will ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet the opera-



- 17 -
tional,debt service,and investment requirements of OPTS's telecommunica-
tion services. The Government further agreed that any remaining surplus,
after meeting telecomnunications requirements, should be applied first
in meeting deficits on OPTS's postal/financial services before any trans-
fer is made to the Government.  In the event of there being insufficient
funds available for OPTS's operations and investment, the Govemment
˘ndertook to take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary
te cover the deficit.  OPTS's financial estimates indicate that during
construction perÓcd of the program the surplus funds available from tele-
co,municati Jns operations would be sufficient to cover postal/financial
deficits and permit an annual transfer of funds to the Government (see
para. 6.15 and Annexes 10 and 16).
Telecommunications - Past Finances
6.0h      in the absence of separate accounts, the estimated Income State-
ments, Balance S.eets, and Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
for OPTS's Teleconmunications Division for the period FY 1969 through
FY 1972 were prepared on a pro-forma basis from available information;
these are given in Annexes 8, 9 and 10. The presentation in the follow-
ing paragraphs concentrates on OPTS's telecommunications operations; the
main aspects of its postal/financial operations are dealt with in Annex
13, with related tables in Annexes lh, 15 and 16.
6.05      Between FY 1969 and FY 1972, OPTS's net income from telecommu-
nications operations rose from CFAF330 million to CFAF520 million, an
increase of 58%. A contributory factor to this good performance was the
stability in labor expense, which increased by only 1% annually over the
three years despite the higher level of operations. In the same period,
the teleconnunications operating ratio fell from 74 to 67 and the esti-
mated rate of return on telecommunications net fixed assets increased
from 13.0% to 17.0%.
6.o6      The book value of OPTS's gross telecommunication plant is esti-
mated at CFAF4.9 billion as of June 30, 1972, and the net value at CFAF3.1
billion. Values per line are high in relation to world averages but com-
parable with those of other French-speaking countries of West Africa (see
also para. 5.09).
6.07      Although OPTS's Telecommunications Division's current ratio
improved from 1.6 to 3.5 between FYs 1969 and 1972, in FYs 1969 and 1970
there was a shortage of liquid resources owing to the high level of unpaid
receivables, due to the non-payment by Government of its bills and exces-
sive credit granted to private subscribers. While the cash position has
since imnproved, the receivables position remains unsatisfactory. Sub-
scribers' receivables are expected to reach about CFAF1 billion (US$4 mil-
lion) as of June 30, 1972; this is equivalent to eight months' billings.
Of this sum it is expected that the Government will owe CFAF460-500 million,
representling 16 months' official billings. OPTS should improve its billing
and collection procedures (see paras. 5.08 and 5.09). During negotiations
the Government agreed to settle its total arrears as of June 30, 1972, in
not more than four equal annual installments, payable in each of FYs 1974



- 18 -
through 1977; furthermore, the Government agreed to pay within 60 days all
bils for telecomimunication services rendered to it by OPTS as from July 1,
1972.
6.o8      The capitalization of OPITS's Telecommunications Division as of
June 30, 1972, is estimated as fo]Llows:
CFAF    us$    %
(millions)
Equity                                 4,154   16.2   90
Long-tenn debti/
Loan FAC (1)                  249
Loan FAC (2)                  168
Suppliers' credit              33      450    1.8   10
Total capitalizat,ion          4 604   18.0  100
This notional capitalization of the division is very conservative; a debt/
equity ratio of 10/90 provides an ample margin for further borrowing.
"Equity" is a balancing figure between the estimated total of net assets
and the total long-term debt. Long-term debt relates to two loans from
the French Government and a credit from French suppliers, all for financing
modernization works carried out in recent years in the southern region of
Senegal. Details of the borrowings are given in Annex 11.
Telecommunications - Financing Plan
6.09      OPTS's capital investment and working capital requirements for
telecommunications during the FYs 1973-1976 period, along with the soerces
from which they would be met, are summarized below. Further details are
given in Annex 10.
1/ Excluding current maturities.



- 19 -
Financing Plan - FY 1973-1976
CFAF           US$      %
----(millions)----
Requirements
1973-1976 program                      3,227          12.62    92
Future program                           150           0.59      h
Working capital                          144           0.56      4
Total requirements           3,521          13.77   100
Sources
Internal cash generation               3,318
Less:  debt service               388
surplus transferred to
Postal/Financial Divi-
sion or to Government
(see para. 6.15)       1,290  1,678
Net internal cash
generation                     1,640           6.41    46
Grants:
Senegal Government               33
FAC                              36
UNDP                             30     99           0.39      3
Borrowings:
FAC                              32           0.13
CCCE                            150           0.59
IBRD                          1,600  1,782   6.25   6.97    51
Total sources                3,521          13.77   100
In addition to the 1973-1976 program, the financing plan includes CF¿F150
million as part of a future program expected to commence in FY 1976, and a
sum of CFAF144 million to cover additional working capital requirements.
The plan takes into account CFAF251 million from loans and grants already
arranged with French Government lending agencies and the Senegalese Govern-
ment for the foreign costs of' ongoing works and a UNDP grant estimated at
CFAF30 million for the foreign costs of the new Kaolock-Bathurst microwave
link (see para. 3.02 (i)). The proposed IBRD loan of CFAF1,600 (US$6.25)
million would have a term of 25 years, including a 5-year grace period.
6.10      OPTS is required under its statutes to deposit all of its funds
with the Public Treasury. When its resources are short, the Treasury some-
times delays the settlement of transactions undertaken by OPTS, and suppliers
are often required to wait up to four months beyond the due date for settle-
ment of their accounts. These delays are prejudicial to OPTS's credit rating



- 20 -
and result in higher prices being asked for goods and services supplied
to OPTS. To eliminate this possible cause of higher prices and delays
in the execution of the project, the Government agreed during negotiations
that funds needed for that part of the program to be financed from OPTS's
internal resources will be transferred quarterly in advance from OPTS's
account with the Treasury to an independent bank account outside Treasury
control. The establishment of an independent bank account outside Treasury
control is a condition of effectiveness. OPTS also agreed that no capital
expenditure in addition to that included in the 1973-1976 program wilt be
undertaken in any one year in excess of US$400,000 equivalent without a
financing plan approved by the Bank.
Telecommunications - Future Finances
6.11      Forecast Income Statements and Balance Sheets for FYs 1973-1978
for the Telecommunications Division are given in Annexes 8 and 9; related
notes are in Annex 11.  The main features of the telecommunications finan-
cial forecasts for the construction period of the program are given below.
Net income is expected to remain at a satisfactory level through FY 1976
and improve thereafter, following the commissioning of the new facilities.
The financial position of the Telecommunicaticns Division would be satis-
factory.
FY                                    1973   197>4   1975   1976
Net income (before interest)  CFAF million           575    555    570    598
Surplus funds available to postal/financial
services or to Government (see para.
6.15)                       CFAF million         215    34∞    375    360
operating ratio  %                                    66     68      70     70
Rate of return   %                                  18.1   15.1   13.5   12.0
Debt/equity ratio                                  15/85  17/83  25/75  29/71
Current ratio                                        2.8    2.7    2.7    2.8
6.12      The overall telecommunications revenue forecasts for the four-
year period through FY 1976 show an average annual increase of about 7%.
The main benefits to telephone revenue are, however, expected in FY 1977
onward after the new local and long distance facilities in the program
become fully operative. Telex service should continue its present satis-
factory growth and an annual increase of 14% is forecast in telex revenues.
Telegraph revenue is expected to ramain static until FY 1976 and decline
thereafter.
6.13      Salaries and wages expenses have been projected to increase at
about 3% per year, with the exception of FYs 1975 and 1976, when, to provide



- 21 -
for additional senior staff which may be necessary, increases of 5% have
been forecast for each year. Other operating expenses have been projected
to increase at 10% per year.  On this basis the operating ratio is expected
to increase from 67 in FY 1972 to 70 in FY 1976; however, with higher re-
venue there should be improvement in FI 1977 and FY 1978 and a ratio of 67
is expected in the latter year.
6.14      The rate of return on telecommunications net fixed assets in
operation is expected to fall from 17% in FY 1972 to 12% in FY 1976.  This
downward trend is largely due to the time lag between the commissioning of
new plant and the build-up of related revenues. A period of two to three
years is generally required before the full revenue benefits from new facil-
ities can be realized.  Furthermore, the various component items of a program,
which are brought into service at different times during the program construc-
tion period, have varying degrees of profitability.  In the case of OPTS,
higher rates of returne reflecting the additional revenue from the program,
are expected to be shown after 1977; a rate of return of 13.7% is indicated
for 1978. Although a specific minimum rate of return for telecommunications
can best be fixed when the accounting changes have been made, asset values
have been revised and the tariff review has been completed, present indica-
tions are that a rate of not less than 9% per year will be required after
FY 1976 (see Annex 12 for further details). This provisional rate has been
determined assuming that:
(i)  gross fixed plant will increase by 8% per year during
the period 1977 through 1980;
(ii) book value of net fixed assets as of July 1, 1972,
will be reduced by not more than 10% when the asset
values are revised; and
(iii)  the yearly surplus after meetirg telecoimmunications
requirements would be equivalent to the postal/finan-
cial service operational deficit and investment.
During negotiations the Government and OPTS gave assurances that unless
otherwise agreed, a rate of return of not less than 9% per year will be
achi-eved after 1976. The proposed 9% rate of return when compared with
the estimated rates of 11.9% and 13.7% for FYs 1977 and 1978, respectively,
would indicate that there is a margin which, if the Government so wishes,
could be applied to reduce OPTS's high tariffs.
6.15      Present forecasts indicate that in each year as from FY 1973
OPTS would have surplus funds from telecommunications operations sufficient,
after meeting the requirements of the program, to cover postal/financial
service deficits, and to permit a transfer of funds to the Government. It
is estimated that the total amount available over the program construction
period would be CFAF1290 (us$5.o) million; this would be equivalent to a
dividend of about 7% per year on the notional telecommunications equity.
Of this sum, CFAF844 million would be available to the Government; this



-- 22 -
would more than compensate the Government for the proposed interest pay-
ments on public checking account funds (CFAF280 million) during the pro-
gram period (see para. 6.02) and the settlement of unpaid receivables
(CFAFh60 million) (see para. 6.07). However, during negotiations, the
Governnent agreed that surplus telecommunications funds will only be
applied for other purposes, after ensuring that sufficient funds are avail-
able to meet operational, debt service and investment requirements for the
telecommunications service (see also para. 6.03).
6.16      The financial position of OPTS's Telecommunications Division is
expected to remain satisfactory during the program construction period.
At the end of FY 1976 the debt/equity ratio would be 29/71; this would
still leave a margin for further borrowing. The current position would
be satisfactory.
6.17      The statute covering OPTS's financial administration treats the
question of future borrowing for the development of both postal and tele-
communication services jointly and provides that the debt service of the
whole entity in any one year shall not exceed 10% of the revenue for the
previous year. During negotiations OPTS agreed that this general debt
limitation provision should be supplemented by OPTS's agreement that the
maximum future debt service for telecommunications will be covered 1.5
times by net telecommunications revenue (before charging depreciation) of
a 12-month period prior to the incurring of new debt for telecommlnications
purposes.
6.18      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that short-term
borrowing for financing the normal working capital of telecommunications
operations will not exceed two months' telecommunication cash operating
expenses for the preceding fiscal year or for any later 12-month period,
whichever is the greater.
6.19      OPTS does not provide for the insurance of its telecommunications
plant. As the assets have a wide geographical distribution and are free
from a significant concentration of risk, this policy, which is the one
commonly followed by Government-owned telecommunications entities, is
acceptable.



- 23 -
7.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i) a request will be made to maintain at the June 30, 1972
level the number of technical advisers assigned to OPTS's
telecommunications operations during the period of project
construction (para. 5.05);
(ii) training programs will be prepared and carried out for
technical staff and for local staff who will replace pre-
sent expatriate advisers (paras. 5.05 and 5.07);
(iii)  a staffing program for telecommunications will be esta-
blished and implemented (para. 5.06);
(iv)  accounting and costing will be reorganized and improved,
plant inventories and asset values updated, and billing
and collection procedures improved by and from specific
dates (paras. 5.08 and 5.09);
(v)  expert assistance will be requested for telecommunication
stores accounting and analytical accounting (para. 5.09);
(vi)  a satisfactory system of independent audit will be intro-
duced (para. 5.10);
(vii) a limited review of OPTS's tariffs will be made (para.
5.12);
(viii)  a review of the operations, staffing, and finances of
OPTS's postal/financial services will be made (para.
6.02);
(ix) sufficient funds will be available for telecommunications
operational, debt service and investment requirements
before surplus teleconmmunication funds are applied for
other purposes (paras. 6.03 and 6.15);
(x)  the Government will settle its past telecommunication debts
as of July 1, 1972, in accordance with an agreed timetable,
and pay its future bills for telecommunications services
within sixty days (para. 6.07);
(xi)  funds equivalent to the program costs to be financed from
OPTS's internal resources will be transferred quarterly
in advance to an independent bank account outside Treasury
control (para. 6.10);



- 24 -
(xii)  during execution of tle program no additional capital
expenditure above us$Ioo,000 equivalent per year will
be incurred without a financing plan agreed with the
Bank (para. 6.10);
(xiii)  unless otherwise agreed, a rate of return of 9% per
year will be achieved after Fi 1976 (para. 6.1h); and
(xiv)  limitations on long-term and short-term borrowings for
telecommunications operations will be observed (paras.
6.17 and 6.18).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness are:
(i)  the employment of qualified and experienced consultants
for the detailed engineering of the project (para. 3.08);
and
(ii)  the establishment by the Government of an independent
bank account outside Treasury control (para. 6.10).
7.03      On the basis of the abiove arrangements, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$6.25 million.
October 19, 1972



SENEGAL
OFFTICi  DE' Po0TEiS ET  TPEIECOOliICATIONS D       A SNECAL (OPJ
Tteraatlonal 3tntistlcal D0ata
Gnoss National Prodoct           Popo1atiorn                                                            T E L     r H 0 N E S
Pan Capita                                                   N A T I        N A L                                                     PRINCIPAL CITIES b/                National          Intonnailonel ServionS'
COUNTRY                Par Capita       irnt.h                           TP                       oa                           AtlotÓl        atI par 1,000           f Total Pop.          o  Total.1 Tel.    Long Diatance
1970          1965-1970          19(70           19oT             1970            1965-70                             teÓ.3                                                             Donvioe         Direot Accens ta-
us$              t              Go              00 Qs             N. No             5                  %              Go.                     %                      % 9.3ality                        Satellite       Subarine Cable
U.S.A.                           4,235             3.4           "'6 90o         115,9-2            56.38             5.4              99.9                                      45                     51                  E             AtT. Pan.              X
Sveden                           2,783             3.0             ),242           1,30            53.71              4.9              99.7               n.                    33                                          E                 _                  X
Switzerland                      1,610             2.4             6,350           2,R347          45.38              6.o             100.0                 4                   37                     50                   E                 -                  X
Canada                           2,720             ?.8             1,'700           3,,53          42.?8              5.5              98.8               n,                     41                     49                  E                Atl.                X
Franco                           2,28G 6           3.71,00                         I,114Ó          lt )5              7.3              80.1                19                   25                      50                  E                Atl.                X
Australia                        2,169             1.4            12,1o0           3.>i''              .t             61. 0l9.7                            22                   64                     67                   E             Pac. lad.              X
Geraany (Fad. Rap.)              0,27Fp2,?70       R.oo                           13,835            22.359            9.4              100.0              -.a.                  29                     46                   E             Atl. Ind.              X
Nea Zealard                      0,o6$             1.,             2,950           1,203            42.03             4.6               86.7               18                    54                     63                   F                -                  x
u.K.                             1,362             1.0            ',r050          13,94)            24.96             7.0              98.6                20                    33                     43                   E            Atl. Iad.              X
Italy                            1,343             41             53,C01Q          8,528            15.98             9.0              100.0              'c.a.                  23                     53                   E               Atl,                N
YCngolacis                         553             4.2            20,60e             103             3.0 5           11.0               95.9               19                    12                     49                   G
Japan                            i,43c            10.O           102,ROO          23,132            22.50            13.4               91.8              n.a.                   36                     48                   E            Id. Pan.              X
Ve-nnlela                          977             1.4            10,650              378            3.70             7.8               97.6               18                    35                     83                   G               Atl,                X
Arge-tina                          836             1.Q            24,4o0           i,668             6.90             2.5               92.7               24                    47                     86                   G               Aitl.
Chile                              487             i.8             9,800              316            3.40             6.8              87.2                16                    35                    76                   F                Atl.
Colombia                           319             1.4            21,350             546             2.C3             7.4              96.8              n.a.                   26                     77                    G               Atl.
B-oil                               251 l3.t                      93,20    l'         M i,           1.94             7.2               93.3              ..a.                   20                     66                   F               Atl.
Mexico                             566             3.4            50,250           1,3)              2.07            12.9               93.0              Il.0.                  27                     75                   G               Atil.
Conta Ri-a                         469             O.1             1,750               5'            3.96            2Q.5              95.9                13                   19                      80                  G                Atl.
Guetemala                           331            1.7             5,150               ,3            o.              i 10.6             95.9               20                    15                     91                   P
El Salvadr                         292              .1             3,500               35            1.D3             9.7               95.5               33                    28                     84                   G
Singapora                          753             3.8             2,100              136            6. o            11.5             l00.0                14                  100                    100                    -                -                  x
Fiji                               400             P.                500               17            3.40             7.9               85.5               33                    14                     53                   G                _                  x
Calasynia                          3S!'5)l3                       11,0950             169            1.58             6.9               39.8               45                     3                     34                   E               lId.
China (Talan3                      30,5                           14,050              33')           2.37            18.o              82.2                39                    26                    72                    F               Pan.
Iraq                                                                  0 0  ,,10       100            1Ó 5            14.1               81.3               47                    54                     74                   P
apua &    .                        221                             0  ,40 0                          0.79            1.1                85.4               34                     4                    78                    P
Ceylon                             18              i .3           1^,550                             0.49             7.7               98.7              n.e                     5                     57                   P
Pakistan 1-3                                       3.1           179,550             1tJ3            Q.17             9.8              78.2               i4o                     7                    75                   F
Idlia                              102             1 .           550,100           1 ,(a). I.11                       8.9               75.7              129                     4                     50                   F
Indonesia                          102              .            118,2590             J,             o. L             2.7               49,0               86                     8                     49                   F               lId.
Iran                               3(0             4.q 919,800                       392             1. o3            8.1               86.1               28                    24                     82                   P               Atil.
7sabia    *                        23$,            3J              4, o                5f` 1,.?32                    10.9               98.0               50                    13                     62                   P
Ghana 1971                         il, i                          '3,000               47            Q51             10.3               83.9              127'                   14'                    760                                   -
Kenva                               134             'o 10,8Q0                          7'            06               '/.1              85.1)                                  (  7                     73)
Uga-da                              112            1.i i                               ,)                             9.2               79.6)              492)  5                                      6i)                  G               Ind.                -
Tan-ania                             82            1.`            13,150               3h            0.94             8.8               74.4)                                  (  3                     43)
Nigeria                              70             .3            6s,1 5                             0.1;             6.?               79.?              n.e.                    3                     57                   F               Atil.
Malnai                               52            :.              1 ,5100             1             0.26            11.4               89.8               a.0                    3                     57                   P
Upper Volta                          59            0.) l,910(S                    0,o,                                6.o               82.5               70                     3                     82                   P
Mali                                 5       0                     5<30)                             0.10             3.0               57.0              117                     6                     72                   P
Senegal                            1)4             1.4             3,:r0). '3.;'3                                     2.0               92.0               50                    31                     93                   P               Atl.
Thailand                            103           O;.6            3< ,24 Ó45                         i.91            1?.0               9'7.0              27                     8                     74                   F            Atl. Ind.
(19' )                                                               (Bangklok  nly)
Sources
Population & 0,0P.                     rIO-ld Lank Atlan  (19'/0)
Telephone Statistico                  TÓe Ro-d'o i'clepir.e: ty A.T.   'r. (13)70)
L.ong  istaone and                     3i.`i5.   earrd:
International  reine
| Thase  figures  are l31t slni:(ly 3l3para. le.         ,e, tn :-.        u *s    i val a d la.  dionoon  ner6':an ara prcvided by diffarent  noratiosiios  iŸ the asa e ountry.
Telerapnl staff .ay                 i-r 009  cI ie li,  lIi s    a     or naia  nain ':  i' n  : <4    :1.< 'l    Galon .  f I tl  nioal sce and cor-t-ctiton   onk.  Ihe -onben of
telephona aper         e       tor s re q   <rso  -i riva o  i'         it. p '331   '9 I.ao 5  .,  <,niO Oer.i0
L/  a.s.  In ale U.S.A., 4555 of ils poptlaio.l. liO    i  I-e prl .ipal    3e1 . si .d   -  51 ' n a t o Ie  tnp'  telepho-on.
c F  EC cellent.  Most ntoes and Incensl t     oe.  -ect 3d alonoatwrF   bannaI c:. 13.0r ait. aten aiDo Shlnorliar 1maI liaklla0M
33 - Gond.  Prinaipal cities eonneeted by miorowave on c            YaniaL O3.O em >  .i !   01  0' '1ncc.k 3i5011! 1r:                                                                                                                                         i.2
F - Pair.  Prinipat aites roai ented hy nioronava  o o.oansi 011       000 3.3' onu oym  .5 c ieG cea-a.Jtcaatioa1ly   dor  aalIo.
P    Pon.  Little or on eliro-ave or eoaxial.  Calls tet,ee  il ter c',onoed citiie  .L-1.dad oaacllo.
5/ Coontriea shinh have satell ite earth  tatiolns or shbmarine cable terainals within thai  borders.
| Servine provided by a anmnas organieaaion.
Tleeneomiinations Division
September 7, 1972






SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPTS)
ORGANIZATION CHART
Minote of P.bIÓC W.rkn,Urb.-rn
P| dTland Transpartatn
P.,t. -d ~ ~ ~ ~~Rar ot DÓrectord
Centra Administration|                                                                                         reoGnra1
Ios rÓd TeIncommuncotÓons
[  Schpo  Ifn                                                         .r    Antintin
la rtc nirJin       jL                                                                                SvsBn
|    Posta andS                                                                                                                       uldlsHi
r  Admncirtrrt i    3                                                Finannial Sovic      l                                          Telecomuonicatians                                                 Transpozrtation  
-|    OrganitStion                                                      o |  nd Pn lar                                          |            lcinn                                          TI g p rtto 
-               Pr nt-rr|                                                        Air S-ai -                                                           -                      -  -  -  -  -  -  -                    d----
PoRqois,zinnioo                                                        PÓ- FnanniOl Servoar                                      |           Rrrsi/
-|    PrOorement                                                    L ntorÓÓctional SOrvÓCOS    l-                                            ull
-|    Social AttaÓrn                                                                                                              7       dLb  tr 
_     Budqntinq and  
EctaÓca SnrvrOeS 
FOqÓorral Postr t01 uirs                                       rnl    senntorr        c
WoÓln Sank 6do/






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4 pages
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
1. Local Telecommunication Services
(i) The total switching capacity and number of connected telephone
lines in Senegal as of December 31, 1971, were as follows:
No. of Automatic                Connected
Exchanges or Man-   Exchange    Direct
ual Switchboards    Capacity    Lines
Automatic service
Dakar                    6              11,800       8,400
Provinces                9               3,150       1,493
Manual service
Provinces              118               2,745       1,840
(ii) The 15 automatic exchanges are as follows:
Exchange     Connected
Location                     Capacity      Direct Lines
Dakar:
Ponty                           2,200         1,938
(Medina  I                     5,000          3,44o
(Medina II                     3,000          2,137
Almadies  I                      100             51
Almadies II                       100            45
Point E                        1,000            582
Thiaroye                         400            207
Total Dakar        11,800         8,400
Provinces:
Kaolack                          800            358
Bambey                           100             52
Khombole                          50             19
M'Bour                            100            78
Meekhe                            100            32
Thi4s                          1,000            419
Tivaouane                        100             43
Rufisque                         500            253
Ziguinchor                       400            239
Total provinces     3.150         1,493
Total Senegal      l4,950          9.893



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4 pages
(iii) The Dakar-Ponty exchange and its satellites, Almadies I & II
are of the old French R6 system. The first 1,000 lines were
installed in the Ponty exchange in 1943. This equipment,
which will be withdrawn under the program, is no longer manu-
factured and OPTS has difficulties in obtaining spare compo-
nents.  The Dakar-Medina I exchange is also of the R6 system
and will probably be substituted in OPTS's next development
program (1976-1979). The Dakar-Medina II exchange, whichi was
commissioned in 1968, and its two satellites, Point E and
Thiaroye, use the Pentaconta common control system and provide
good service.
(iv) The provincial automatic exchanges are all of the common con-
trol type and have been installed in recent years.
(v) Manual service is offered as follows:
Number of     Exchange  Connected
Region               Switchboards  Capacity  Direct Lines
Cape Vert (excluding
Dakar)             h           40          35
Casamance                    19           255         176
Diourbel                     30           755         470
Region la Felure             20           895         661
Senegal Oriental              7           230         161
Sine-Saloum                  18           415         257
ThiÈs                        20           155          80
118        21745         8h0
2. Long Distance Service
(i)  Present long distance facilities (see Map) consist mainly of
about 2,177 km of iron and copperweld open wire lines contain-
ing 6,900 pair/km of copper wire and 200 pair/km of iron wire.
The following carrier equipment is in service on the routes
mentioned:
Thies       - St. Louis         =  2 x 12 + 6 channels
il        - Louga            =  6 channels
- Kaolack          =  2 x 12 channels
- Diourbel         =  6 channels
- Tivaouane        = h channels
- Touba            =  2 channels
- Khombole         =  1 channel
- Bambey           =  1 channel
- M'Bour           =  3 channels
St. Louis   - Podor            =  3 channels



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4 pages
Louga        - Liugue're        =  1 channel
Podor        - Matam            =  l channel
"t         - MtDioum          =  l channel
- AerÈ            =    channel
Ziguinchor   - Bignona          =  2 channels
- SÈdhiou         =  2 channels
- Kolda           =  2 channels
Tamba        - Bakel            =  1 channel
- Koussanar       =  1 channel
"l         - Koungheul        =  1 channel
Kaolack      - Tamba            =  3 channels
- Kaffrine        =  2 channels
- Bathurst           2 channels
The only long distance cable in service links Dakar to Thies;
this cable has 60 voice-frequency circuits and 36 carrier
circuits. An additional 60 carrier circuits will be installed
on this route before the end of 1973.
(ii) A tropospheric scatter link with four telephone and one tele-
graph channel connects Dakar to Ziguinchor and will be replaced
by the end of 1972 by a 300-channel capacity microwave link.
Another microwave link belonging to TELESENEGAL connects Dakar
to the earth satellite sta&ion at Gandoul.
(iii)  HF radio circuits connect the capital, Dakar, with the remote
provincial towns of KÈdougou, Doli, Niokolokoba.
(iv) The organization of the long distance network is at present
based on four transit zones -- Thie's, St. Louis, Kaolack and
Ziguinchor -- of which ThiÈs has been chosen as national
transit center.
3. Telegraph and Telex Services
(i) Telegraph service is provided over the telephone transmission
facilities.
(ii) Telex service is provided through automatic exchanges located
in Dakar and Ziguinchor; their capacities are 300 and 10 lines,
respectively.  Present connected subscribers total 223, located
as follows:
Dakar           200
Kaolack           6
Diourbel          3
St. Louis         2
Thi,Ès            4
Tambacounda       2
Ziguinchor        6
Total  223



ANNEX 2
Page h of 4 pages
h. International Services
(i) International services are provided by both OPTS and TELESE&EGAL.
OPTS provides service by HF radio to the African capitals listed
below. Service to all other major centers is provided by TELE-
SENEGAL through either HF radio or the recently inaugurated
(April 1972) earth satellite station.
Abidjan
Bamako
Bathurst
Bissau
Conakry
Cotonou
Niamey
Nouakchott
Ouagadougou
July 1i, 1972



ANNEX 3
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
Traffic Statistics
(1969-1971)
(Figures in parenthesis denote the percentage
increase over previous year)
I.  Telephone Traffiic
Domestic Traffic                  1969              1970            1971
Number of local calls (re-
gistered on meter)               18,750,708        22,h82,591      23,270,389
(19.9)          (3.5)
Number of long-distance calls
(registered on tickets)           1,050,214         1,045,633       i,o466,6o6
(-0.5)          (0.1)
Outgoing Inter-
national Traff ic
Minutes charged                        189,274           221,933        236,308
(17.3)         (6.5)
IL.  Telex Traffic
Damestic Traffic
Number of pulses on meter              698,581          976,115       1,079,974
(39.7)        (10.6)
Outgoing Inter-
national Traffic
Minutes charged                        284,212          349,946         428,436
(23.1)         (22.9)
III. Telegraph Traffic
Domes tic Traffic
Number of telegrams                    287,722          299,476         327,462
(4-1)         (9.3)
Outgoing Inter-
national Traffic
Number of telegrams                     92,661            94,792        109,266
(2.3)         (15-3)
July 12, 1972






ANNEX h
Page 1 of 4 pages
SEN}BAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECO'MMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
The Project
The principal items of the project to be realized during FYs 1973
through 1976 are given below. A table of costs is given on page 4 of this
annex.
A. Local Telephone Service
(i)  The installation of switching equipment for 8,300 automatic
exchange lines at the following locations:
Dakar (new exchanges)
Medina III        5,300
Yoff               1,000      6,300
St. Louis                       1,000
Richard Toll                      300
Louga                             200
Dagana                            100
KÈb6mer                           100
LinguËre                          100
Matam                             100
Podor                             100
Total       8,300
Of the 6,300 lines to be installed in the Dakar area, 2,400
will replace switching equipment withdrawn from Dakar-Ponty
exchange and its two satellites, Almadies I & II.
(ii)  The rehabilitation and extension of outside plant and the
provision of subscribers' apparatus to cover projected deve-
lopment. The nunber of connected direct exchange lines in
the areas concerned is expected to develop as follows:
Dec. 31       1972   1973   197      1975    1976    1977    1978
--------(Connected Direct Exchange Lines)--------
Dakar        8,760  9,110  9,470   9,940  10,540  11,270  12,060
Provinces      830    860    900      950   1,140   1,270   1,350
Total    9,590  9,970 10,370  10,890  11,680  12,540  13,410



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of h pages
B. Long Distance Service
The long distance routes to be constructed are shown on the map.
(i)  Construction of a 960-channels capacity microwave link
between Dakar, ThiÈs', St. Louis and Richard Toll. Ihni-
tially, this link will be provided with multiplex equip-
ment for 1h0 channels, to be distributed as follows:
Dakar-Maur:Ótania           22 ) to be coordinated
ThiÈs-Mauritania            12 ) with OPT Mauritania
Dakar-St. Louis             2h
Dakar-Louga                  6
Thi4s-Louga                  6
ThiÈs-St. Louis             18
St. Louis -Richard Toll     20
St. Louis-Dagana            10
St. Louis-Podor             10
St. Louis-Matam             10
VF telegraph circuit         2
Total    140
(ii)  Construction of a VEF/UHF link and associated multiplex equipment
between Richard Toll, Podor, Matam and Bakel, with spur routes
to ThillÈ Boubacar, Guede' Chantier, N'Dioum, Boghe, Ae'È,
Cascas, SaldÈ, Diorbi.val, KaÈdi and Kariel.
(iii)  Provision of automatic trink exchanges or additions of trunk
switching equipment at Lakar, St. Louis, Richard Toll, Louga,
Dagana, KÈbÈmer, Linguere, Matam and Podor to provide subscriber
trunk dialling.
(iv) Provision of additional equipment in the "Pentaconta" long
distance switching centers of Dakar and Thies to provide for
a change of signalling system. (OPTS proposes to substitute
the present systemi, which is the French multi-frequency SOCOTEL
code by the R2 syster. recommended by the International Telephone
and Telegraph Consultative Committee (CCITT).)
(v)  Redeployment to smaller towns of plant made available from (i)
and (iii) above.
(vi) Rehabilitation of the open wire line and the provision of a
carrier system, along the route between Louga and Linguere
to provide the following circuits:
Louga-Liiguare      8
"  -Ouarah       1
if -Coki         1
-Dahra        4



ANNEX h
Page 3 of 4 pages
C. Land and Buildings
(i) Extension to the Dakar Medina exchange building.
(ii) New automatic exchange buildings at:
St. Louis           Richard Toll
Louga               Podor
Linguere            Matam
Dagana               KÈb…mer
(iii) Intermediate repeater stations along the new microwave and
VHF routes at:
Kelle               M'Bonba
Ross Betheo          Thilogne
N'Djerba             Semme
Dodel
D. Miscellaneous
The purchase of vehicles, transport equipment, mechanical
aids, tools and miscellaneous equipment and materials.
E. Detailed Engineering Services
Consultants' services to cover the planning, supervision and
acceptance tests of the construction works.
F. Tariff and Organization Studies
Consultants' services to cover a linited tariff study and a
review of the operations, staffing and finances of OPTS's postal/
financial services.
G. Training
The foreign costs of training programs for telecommunications
technicians and for staff to replace present technical advisers.






ANNEX 4
7Wofr 4 pages
SENEGAL
OFFICES DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
TELECOMMUsICATIONS DIVISION
The Program anL the Project (1973-1976) - Cost Estimatee
(in million of CFA Francs
Total
Year ending June 30                 1973                         1974                        1975                         1976                         _   oreign
Local   Foein   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total             Local   IBRD    Other    Total
A. Local Services
8,300 lines automatic exchanges                 5.0     34.o      39.0      1.0       -        1.0      15.0    207.0    222.0        5.0    129.0    134.0       26.0    370.0       -      396.0
Extension equipment - DaXar exchanges           0.2       2.0      2.2      o.8      17.0     17.8       -         2.0      2.0       -        -         -         1.0       -       21.0     22.0
Local networks and subscribers' plant          33.0      35.4     68.4     95.0    121.0    216.0       55.0    120.0    175.0      45.0      81.6    126,6      228.0    358.0       -      586.0
38.2     71.4    o1.6      96.8    138.0    234.8      70.0    329.0    399.0       50.0    210.6    260.6       255.0    728.0    21.0  i,oo4.o
B. Long Distance Service
Microwave link - Dakar-Richard Toll             4.o     18.9      22.9       8.0      -         8.0     22.0    113.0    135.0        4.o     56.1      60.1      38.o    188.0       -      226.0
Multiplex equipment                             1.0       6.o      7.0       -        -         -        5.0      34.o     39.0       1.0     17.0      18.0       7.0      57.0      -       64.o
VHF/UHF link - Richard Toll-Bakel               1,0      17.2     18.2       2.0      -         2.0      4.o    103.0    107.0        2.0     51.8      53.8       9.0    172.0       -      181.0
New trunk switching equipÓsent                  1.0       4.0      5.0       2.0      _         2.0     l1o      28.0      29.0       1.0      8.0       g.0       5.0      40.o      -       45.0
Extension to Dakar and ThiÈs
trunk switching centers                       1.0      7.2       8.2      3.0      37.0     40.0       1.0     31.8      32.8       -       12.0     12,0        5.0       -      88.o      93.0
Louga-Linguere route                            1.0       3.5      4.5       1.0      -         1.0      4.o      21.0     25.0       _       10.5      10.5       6.o      35.0      -       41.0
9.0     56.8      65.8     16.0      37.0     53.0      37.0    330.8    367.8       8.0    155.4    163.4        70.0    492.0    88.0    650.0
S.  Land & Buildings                                 14.0       1.0     15.0      77.0      2.0      79.0     51.0       6.o     57.0       -         _        -       142.0       9.0      _      151.0
D. Miscellaneous
Vehicles                                        -         5.0      5.0       -        5.0       5.0      -         -        -         -        5.0       5.0        -        -       15.0     15.0
Tools, miscellaneous equipment                  -       18.0      18.0       -       18.0     18.0       -        18.0     18.0       -       18.0      18.0        -       72.0      -       72.0
-       23.0     23.0       -       23.0      23.0       -       18.0     18.0       -        23.0     23.0        -       72.0    15.0       87.0
E. Consultants' Services
Detailed Engineering                            6.0      26.o     32.0       2.0     19.0      21.0      3.0      21.0     24.0       6.o     28.0      34.o      17.0      94.o      -      111.0
Tarif£ and Organization Studies                 -         -        -         -        6.o       6.o      -        12.0     12.0,.s                       _          _       18.0      -       18.0
6.o     26.0      32.0      2.0      25.0     27.0       3.0     33.0      36.0      6.o      28.0      34.o      17.0    112.0       -      129.0
F.  Training                                          _         _                  _       13.0      13.0      -        13.0     13.0       -        15.0     15.0        -       41.0      -        41.0
G. Contingencies
Physical                                        3.4      8.9      12.3       9.6     12.1     21.7       8.0      36.5     44.5       3.0     21.5      24.5      24.0      73.0      6.o    103.0
Prices                                          3.4       8.9     12.3       9.6     12.1    21.7        8.0      36.5     44.5       3.0     21.5      24.5      24.0      73.0      6.o    103.0
6.8     17.8      24.6     19.2      24,p     43.4      16.0     73.0      89.0       6.o     43.0      49.0      48.0    146.o    12.0    206.0
TOTAL PROJECT                             74.o    196.0    270.0    211.0    262.2    473.2    177.0    802.8    979.8          70.0    475.0    54s.0      532.0  1,600.0   136.0  2,268.o
H. Other Investments
ongoing works (1969-1973 program)              53.5    251.3    304.8        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         53.5      -      251.3    304.8
Micro,wave link - Ya,,li-k-Rothurst             6.o      15.0    ;'13        6.5     15.0      21.5      -         _                                               12.5       -      30.0      42.5
Telex service                                   3.0      37.0     4o,o       3.,)    37.0      40.)      3.0      37.0     40o0       3.0      37.0     40o.O      12.0       -     i48.o    160.0
Other capital works - Oouthere Provinces       M8.0      64.o    15".0      5z'50    4.2.   100.0       58,0      42.0    100.0      58.0      42.0    100.0      262.0             190.0    452.0
TOTAl. PROGRAM                           2A4.5    563.3    787.8    278.5    356.2   634.7    238,0    881.8  1,119.8    131.0    554.0    685.0            872.0  1,600.0   755.3  3,227.3
October 12, 1972






SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPTS)
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE OF THE WORKS OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
1972                1973                        1974                       1975                        1976
J A S O DJ FMAM  J JA        N J F|M| AI M  J J ASOND J F MAMJ J A SON D   F   MAM J  J A s o N  
LOCAL NETWORKS
DESIGN
BUILDINGS BIDDING
BUIIDINGS   EVALUATION & AWARD
CONSTRUCTION
DESIGN                               -
EXCHANGES  jBIDDING
EVALUATION & AWARD
INSTALLATION & COMMISSIONING
OUTSIDE &    DESIGN
PLNSUBCES fEVALUATION & AWARD_______
INSTALLATION & COMMISSIONING                                                                    _
LONG DISTANCE NETWORK
/DESIGN_
MICROWAVE    DAKAR-  BIDEIONG
RICHARD TOLL          EVALUATION & AWARD                        _
jINSTALLATION &
COMM ISSION ING
DESIGN                         _
OTHER TRANSMISSION   j' DESNG
EQU I PM E NT         EVALUATION & AWARD
EOUIPMENT      j INSTALLATION &
COMMISSIONING
f DESIGN                     -
TRUNK SWITCHING        B IDDING                       _    _
TRUIPMENK SWICI-INEVALUATION & AWARD
EOUIPMENT      j INSTALLATION &-
COMMISSIONING
VVorid B.nk- 6871<2Et)






SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOM2fUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
at End of Quarter
Fiscal Year              Quarter Ending                 (uS$o000)
1972/73              March 31, 1973                        200
June 30, 1973                         390
1973/74              September 30, 1973                    560
December 31, 1973                     740
March 31, 1974                        950
June 30, 1974                       1,170
1974/75              September 30, 1974                  1,4oo
December 31, 1974                   1,760
March 31, 1975                      2,200
June 30, 1975                       2,700
1975/76              September 30, 1975                  3,200
December 31, 1975                   3,700
March 31, 1976                      4,300
June 30, 1976                       4,900
1976/77              September 30, 1976                  5,400
December 31, 1976                   6,250
July 12, 1972






ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3 pages
SENEAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
Economic A;ialysis of the Project
1.        A conservative estimate of the rate of return on the project is
14%.  This rate is the discount rate which equalizes the stream of OPTS's
expected revenues from the project with its capital costse, free of taxes
and duties, and related operating costs. Should revenues and costs each
vary +10%, the rate of return would be between 13 and 16%.  Shouldsa one-
year delay occur in project ccmpletion the expected rate of return would
be 13%.
2.        A sensitivity analysis using the variables mentioned below gave
the following results:
Rate of' Return re s
10% increase in revenues                           16
5% increase in revenues                           15
5% decrease in revenues                           14
10% decrease in revenues                           13
10% increase in costs                              13
5% increase in costs                              14
5% decrease in costs                              15
10% decrease in costs                              16
One-year delay in project completion               13
3.        A summary of revenues and costs at constant prices (in CFAF
millions) that have been allocated to the project is given below.
----------- Revenues -----------  -------- Costs -------
Local                       Oper-  Construc-          Net
Fiscal             and Long  Inter-            ating  tion               Cash
Year      Rentai  Distance  national  Total  Costs  Costs        Total   Flow
1973         0          0        O        0       1     270       271    (271)
1974         0          6        2         8      4     473       477    (469)
1975         4         26        5       35      17     980       997    (962)
1976        12        62         9       83      32     545       577    (494)
1977        39        167       17      223      37                37     186
1978        67        265       26      358      43                43     315
1979        99        366       36       501     46                46     455
1980        99        366       36      501      48                48     453
1981-1991   99        366       36      501      50                50     451
1992        99       366        36      501      50    (764)    (714)  1,215



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3 pages
(i) The revenue forecasts are based on demand and capacities. The
revenues attributable to the project were derived from:
(a)  first apportioning the revenues shown in the income
statements (Annex 8), and their further projections
for 1979 through 1992, between existing facilities and
those provided by the program; and then
(b)  further apportioning the revenues relating to the program
as determined iri (a), between the project facilities and
the remaining program facilities.
For the first apportionnent (a above), it was assumed that
additional revenues would continue to accrue from OPTS's
existing facilities until 1979 at the undermentioned growth
rates.
Ö_____---------- Revenues ----------------
Local and       Inter-
Fiscal           Rentai    Long Distance   national   Telex
Year                 __            %             %         t
1973               2.0            5.0           10       13
1974               2.0            4.0            8       il
1975               3.0            3.0            6        9
1976               3.0            2.0                     _
1977*            - 6.0          - 4.7            -        -
1978*            - 7.0          - 3.5            -        -
1979*            - 7.0          - 3.6            -        -
* Takes into account the withdrawal of the equipment from Dakar,
Ponty exchange and its satellites Almadies I & II.
In the second apportionnent (b above), revenues relating to the
program were allocated to the project as follows:
Allocation to Project
Revenue                               %
Rental                                    95
Local and long distance                    70
International                             67
Telex                                       O
(ii)  The operating costs for the project have likewise been obtained
by the apportionnent of the operating expenses (other than
depreciation) given in Annex 8 and of the expenses projected
from 1979 through 1992. An annual grawth rate of 5% for



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3 pages
operating expenses has been assumed for the period 1979 through
1981, with no increase thereafter. For the apportionment between
existing facilities and the program it has been assumed that the
operating expenses relating to OPTS's existing facilities would
increase at the rate of 4.5% per annum from 1973 through 1978,
and 5.0% from 1979 to 1981, with no increase thereatter. 70%
of the operating expenses relating to the program have been
allocated to the project.
(iii)  The construction costs are free of taxes and duties and are the
estimated project costs shown in Annex 4.  An adjustment in
1992 has been made for the residual value of plant and buildings
constructed during the project and having a life beyond that
date. For this purpose the following life periods have been
assuned.
Years
Local exchanges and networks       30
Trunk switching equipment          30
M4icrowave                         20
Other transmission equipment       20
Buildings                          40
July 20, 1972






ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3 pages
SENtGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
Summary of Tariffs
1. General
(i)  Although OPTS's tariffs axre in line with those in the French
speaking West African countries, they are very high when com-
pared with similar services in other developing countries.
Local calls are charged US¢12 in Senegal, as comTpared with
US¢2-05 in most countries.
(ii)  Billing to subscribers is on a two months' cycle. Subscribers
are subject to a two-part tariff comprising a rental for each
line, which varies with the size of the local calling area,
and a charge per local call. Long distance calls are charged
on a unit basis of a three-minute call, the charge varying
according to distance by multiples of the base rate for a
local call. Additional surcharges are applied on long distance
calls originating from public cali boxes.
2. Principal_Tarif s
(i) Telephone - Local
CFAF
(a) Installation fee (single-party line
or extension in Dakar)                      18,000
(b)  Private subscriberts deposit:
1)  Residence                                5,000
2)  Commercial                              10,000
3)  Bar or restaurant                       20,000
(c) Two months' rental (single-party
line iri Dakar)                              2,100
(d)  Two months' rental (multi-party line)       Tariff is prorated
on the basis of
usage and the number
of connected parties.
(e)  Two months' rental (extension in Dakar)      1,500
(f) Local calls
1)  fron subscribers' lines (base rate)         30
2)  from public call boxes                      35



ANNEX 7
PY oe of 3 pages
(ii)  Telephone - Long Distance (Rates for three-minute calls)
(a) From subscribers' lines:
Multiple of
Distance             Base Rate              OFAF
(CFAF30)
0-50  loi               2                  60
51-75  Ila               3                  90
76-100 km                5                 150
101-150 loi               6                 180
151-200 Im                8                 240
201-300 kmt              10                 300
301-400 l:ia             12                 360
401-600 kmI              15                 450
over 600 Imo              20                 600
(b) From public call boxes:
Unit charges are the same as those for subscribers'
lines, but in addition there is a surcharge on each
call.
Surcharge:                                  CFAF
1) when rate for three-minute cal)
is CFAF150 or less                       15
2) when rate for three-minute cal)
is over CFAF150                          30
(iii) Telephone - International
The following are sample rates for three-minute station-
to-station caJUs:
Senegal to:                                 CFAF
Upper Volta                            910
Kenya                                4,177
France                               1,820
USA                                  3,276
USSR                                 3,504



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3 pages
(iv)  Telex                                                 CFAF
(a)  Installation fee                               24,000
(b)  Guarantee deposit (minimum)                    18,000
(c) Basic monthly rental (for stations
connected directly to telex exchange
equipment)                                      3,000
(d) Monthly rentai for equipment and
maintenance:
1)  teleprinter                                13,500
2)  two-wire connection                         2,250
3) four-wire connection                         4,500
4)  automatic tape unit                         4,500
(e)  Communications
1)  same zone (unit of 90 seconds)                 30
2)  different zone (unit of 30 seconds)            30
(v) Telegraph
(a)  Ordinary telegrams per word (any destination)      20
Minimum charge (10 words)                          200
July 20, 1972






ANNEX 8
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMJNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION
Statements of Income  - 1969-1978
(in raillions of CFA Francs
-Es t;iat e  c-------                                    Fore c ast Ö---           ---
Year ending June 30!                 1969       1970      1971      1972          1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       1978
REVENUE
Telephone - rental                                       172.0     177,2    185.2    190.0           194.0     199.0    209.0       224.0     239.0     255.0
- local and long distance calls               700.3    788.9    820.1    852.3             894.o     939.0    995.0   1,065.0   1,150.0   1,242.0
- international calls                          63.o      67,8      76.5       84.2          92.0     102.0    112.0      123.0    135.0    148.0
- other                                        34.4      34.4      30.3'      32.1          32.0      32.0      32.0      34.0       34.0      34.0
969.7   1,o68,3   1,112.1   1,158.6       1,212.0   1,272.0   1,348.0   ,446.o   1,558.0   1,679.0
Telegraph - national                                      64.7      66.6      66.5      65.7          66.o      66.o       66.o      65.0      64.o      63.o
- international                                59.6      73.2       76.7      78.8          80.0      80.0      80.0      80.0       80.0      80.0
- other                                        26.3      30.0       36.5      33.4          32.0      32.0      32.0      32.0       32.0      32.0
150.6    169.8      179.7    177.9          178.0    178.0      178.0      177.0     176.0     175.0
Telex - rental                                            36.o      43.7      49.4      56.8          63.0      70.0       78.0      87.0      97.0     108.0
- national calls                                   18.6      25.8       29.0      36.5          43.0      52.0      62.o      74.0      89.0      107.0
- international calls                              54.2      70.0       91.3      93.6         107.0    122.0    140.0    161.0    185.0    213.0
108.8    139.5    169.7    186.9            213.0     244.o    280.0       322.0    371.0      428.0
Miscellaneous                                             58.3      78.3      66.4      64.4          65.0      65.0       65.0      65.0      65.0      65.0
TOTAI OPERATING REVENUE           1,287.4     459   1. 27.9   1.               1.668.     0         1871.0   210   2,170.0 _2347.0
EXPENSES
Salaries                                                688.2    691.2    698.5        720.0         742.0    765.0      803.0    843.0    868.o        894.0
Other expenses                                          165.4    191.0    178.5    227.2             250.0    275.0      302.0    332.0       365.o    401.0
853.6    882.2    877.0    947.2            992.0   1,040.0   1,105.0  1,175.0   1,233.0   1,295.0
Les.:  transferred te investment                          62.9      47.4      54.9      70.0         104.0      70.0       70.0      70.0      70.0      70.0
790.7    834.8    822.1    877.2            888.0    970.0  1,035.0   1,105.0   1,163.0   1,225.0
Depreciation                                             167.2    169.8    131.1    190.5            204.7     234.i    266.1    307.1        344.5     358.5
TOTA. OPERATING EXPENSES             957.9   1004.6   1,003.2   1067.7          1.092.7   1,204.1   1,301 1   L,412.1   1,507.5   1,583.5
NET INCOME (before intere:;t)                              329.5     451.3    524.7    520.1           575.3    554 9       569.9    597.9    662.5       763.5
Less:  interest                                           -          9.2      10.7      17.8          30.7       46.7      66.5      93.9    135.9    152.n
NET PROFIT                                                 329.5    441.4    514.0    502.3            544.6      506.2     503.4    5o4.u    526.6    t1o.7
Less:  contribution to Postal deficit                    164.2    218.5      177.5    113.5           74.b       9b.b    123.3    149.3       122.0     154.0
transfer to Government                                -         -         -         -         140.2    241.2    251.7    210.7         233.0    261.0
NET SURPLUS                                                165.3    222.9      336.5     388.8          329.6    168.2      128.4     _44.0    171.6    195.7
Rate of ret.rn-!                                            13.0%     16.2%     17.7%     17.0%         18.1%      15.1%     13.5%     12.0%     11.9%     13.7%
Operating ratio]                                            74        69        66        67            66        68         70        70        69        67
Average net telecommunication plant in service           2,538.3   2,777.9   2,970.3   3,055.1        3,170.1   3,684.7   4,235.9   4,973.3   5,582.5   5,581.0
1] Ratio of net income (before interest) to average net telecommunication plant in service.
Ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenue.
October 13, 1972






ANNEX 9
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOOMMICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
TELECOlEMoNICATIONS DIVISION
Baelance Sheets - 1969 1978
(in  ilons of CFA FrEins)
E s t i m a t e d                                       F c,re c a , t
As of June 30                           1969       1970      1971       1972        19T3       1974      1975      1976       1977      1978
ASSETS
Gross fixed assets                                     3,929.5   4,405.5   4,665.2   4,946.8       5,290.3   6 414.9   6,892.9   8,462.9   8,762.9   9,162.9
tees:  DepreciaLtion                                   1,304.7   1,474.5   1,655.6   1,846.1       2,050.8   2 284.9   2,551.0   2,858.1   3,202.6   3,561.1
Net fixed assets                    2,624.8   2,93.1o   3,0og.6   3,100.7       3,239.5   4,130.0   4,341.9   5,604.8   5,560.3   5,601.8
Work in progress                                           6.5       58.9       5.8     404.8        849.1      359.2  1,001.0      266.o      566.0     766.o
Other assets
Housing sales to staff                                  15.3      12.5       10.0       7.8          5.6       3.4        1.7
Inventories                                            1L8.1     148.8      176.9     200.0        240.0     280.0      300.0     360.0      370.0     380.0
Long-term receivables - Government                        -          -         -          -        345.0     230.0      115.0
Total other assets                    163.4      161.3     186.9      207.8       590.6     513.4      416.7      360.D     370.0     380.9
Current assets
Cash and Ireasury balances                            (101.0)   (158.0)    308.5      402.0        411.2     430.8      546.o    533.7      738.7      8w7.6
Sundry dettors (net)  and payments in aclvance            (               (         ( 380.0        500.0     530.0    560.0       685.0     685.0    715.0
831.8   ( 890.6   / 797.8
Government debts as of June 30, 1972                 (         L          L         ( 460.o        115.0     115.0      115.0     115.0         -         -
Total current assets                  730.8      732.6   1,106.3   1,242.0      1,026.2   1,075.8   1,221.0   1,330.7   1,423.7   1,522,6
TOTAL ASSETS                   3,525.5   3,883.8   4,308.6   4,955.3       5,705.4   6,078.4   6,980.6   7,561.5   7,920.0   8,270.4
LIABILITIES
Capital                                                1,989.1   1,989.:  1,989.1   1,989.1        1,989.1   1,989.1   1,989.1   1,989.1   1,989 1   1,989.1
Subsidies received                                       244.0     244.0      244.o     399.7        469.0     484.o      499.o     499.0      499.0     499.o
Surplus and reserves                                     840.3   1,063.2   Ó;376.8   1,765.6       2,995.2   2,263.4   2,391.6   2,535.8   2,707.4   2,903.1
Total equity                        3,073.4   3,296.3   3,609.9   4,154.4       4,553.3   4,736.5   4,879.9   5,D23.9   5,195.5   5,391.2
Long-cerm debt
Loan FAC (1)                                              -      292.5      270.8     249.1       o2o.4      205.3      184.0    io .3       140.6     117.-
FAC (2)                                              -         -       10O.0     168.o        200.0     290.9     200.0      209.0      0.0 CI   --,
CCCE                                                 _    -         -               -        15_0       150.9 )   125.6      127.2      85.7       64.3
Supplier's Credit                                           -          -         -       32.6         oz.4      11.5         -         -          -         -
Bank loan (proposed)                                        -          -    -               -        150.4     3s2.1   1,143.5   1,60o.0   1,562.9   1,523-_
Future losn                                                                                                        -         -                 20.0      4co.c,
Total long-term debt                     -       292.5     370.8      449.7       739.-    949.3   1,656.1   2,069.5   2,189.2   2,306.5
Current liabilities
Sundry creditors                                       452.1     273.3      306.2     320.0        340.0     369.C      390.0     425.0     4s5.c      hni.2
Current maturities                                        -       21.,       21.7      31.2         31.)      32.6       54.6      43.1       80.3      32.7
Total current liabilities             452.1      295.0     327.9      351.        371.)      392.6     444.6      468.1     535.6     572.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES              3,525.5   3,883.8   4,303.6   4,955.-p     5,70s.4   6,278.4   6,980.6   7,561 5   7,g^.OD   S,270 4
Lebt/equity ratio                                             -        8/92      9/91     12/90        15/8'     17/83      25/75     29/71      30/70     30/70
Current ratio                                                1.6        2.5       3.4        3.5         2.8       2.7        2.7       2.8        2.7       2.7
iJ   lNet of bad debts reserve.
October 12, 1972






ANNEX 10
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
TELECOM4UNICATIONS DIVISION
Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds
(in millions of CFA Francs)
E s t i m a t e d                                   F o r e c a s t
Year eading Jone 3D:                   U,62      190      17         92          17         94      1975      1976     1977  1--~-976
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income before interest                                 329.5    451.3    524.7    520.1         575.3    554.9    569.9    597.9    662.5    763.5
Depreciation                                              167.2    169.8    181.1    190.5          204,7    234.1    266.1    307.1    344.5    358.5
Total internai cash generation                496.7    621.1    705.8    710.6         780.0    789.o    836.o    905.0  1,007.0  1,122.0
Grants and miscellaneaus receipts                              6.3      2.8       2.5    157.9         71.5      17.2      16.7      1.7       -         -
Borrowings:
FAC (1)                                                      -      325.0       -         -           -         -         -        -         _         _
FAC (2)                                                      -        -       100.D     68.o         32.0       -         -        _         _         _
CCCE                                                         -        -         -        -          150.0       -         -        -         -         -
Suppliers' Credit                                            -        -         -       51.1          -         -         -        -
Bank loan (proposed)                                         -        -         -         -         180.4    201.7    761.4    456.5         -         -
Future loan                                                  -        _         -         -           -         -         -        -       200.0    200.0
Total borrowings                                -      325.0    100.0    119.1         362,4    201.7    761.4    456.5    200.0    200.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                503.0 o            808.3    987.6       121.      10.        614.1  1363.2  1.207.0  1,322.0
APPLICATIONS OF FUIDS
Capital construction
1973-1976 programi                                           -        -         -                   787.8    634.7  1,119.8    685.0 o
Future program                                                        -   -           -                    -         -           150.0    600.0    600.0
1969-1973 program                                          172.9    526.4    206.6    680.6                     -         -
172.9    528.4    206.6    680.6         787.8    634.7  1,119.8    835.0    600.0    600.0
Stocks - increase                                              8.8      0.7      28.1      23.1        40.0      40.0      20.0     60.o      10.0      10.0
Government debts - transfer to long-term                       -        -         -         -         345.0   (115.0)  (115.0)  (115.0)        -         -
Debt service - amortization
Loan FAC (1)                                                 -       10.8      21.7      21.7        21.7      21.7      21.7     21.7      21.7      21.7
Loan FAC (2> 
Loan CCCE                                                    _ -           -              -            -        -         -       21.4      21.4      21.5
Suppliers' credit                                            -        -         -        9.0          9.5      10.2     10.9      11.5       -         -
Bank loan (proposed)                                         -        -         _         -                               -        -         -        37.1
-       10.8      21.7     30.7         31.2      31.9     32.6      54.6      43.1     80.3
Debt service - interest
Loan FAC (1)                                                 -        9.9       8.9      8.5           7,8      7.2       6.5      5.9       5.2       4.5
Loan FAC (2)                                                 -        -         1.8      6.1          6,1       6.1       6.1      6.1       6.1       6.1
Loan CCCE                                                    -        -         -         -           6.5       6.5       6.5      6.2       5.3       4.4
Suppliers' credit                                            -        -         -         3.2         2.6       2.0       1.3      0.5       -         -
Bank loan (proposed)                                         _ -           -              -           7.7      24.9      46.1     75.2    111.8    115.3
Future loan                                                                     -         -           -         -         -        -         7.5      22.5
-   9.9  10.7     17.8         30,7     46.7      66.5     93.9    135-9    152-8
Total debt service                              -       20.7      32.4      48.5        61.9      78,6      99i1    148.5    179.0    233.1
Contribution to Postal Division deficit                      164.2    218.5    177.5    113.5          74,8      98.8    123.3    149.3    122.0    154.0
Contribution to Government                                     -        -         -         -         140,2    241.2    251.7    210.7    233.0    261.0
Increase (decrease) in working capital
Cash                                                      211.5    (57.0)  466.5        93.5          9.2      19.6    115.2    (15.3)   208.0       68.9
Receivables and advance payments                            20.8     58.8    (92.8)    42.2        (225.0)    30.0       30.0    125.0   (115.0)    30.0
Sundry creditors, reserves                                 (75.2)   178.8    (10.0)   (13.8)        (20.0)   (20.0)   (30.0)   (35.0)   (30.0)   (35-0)
157.1    180.6    363.7    121.9        (235.8)    29.6    115.2       74.7      63.0      63.9
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS           503.0    948.9    808.3    987.6        1,213.9  1,007.9  1,614.1  1,363.2  1,207.0  1.322.0
Debt service coverage                                            -        30.0     21.8      14.6         12.6     10.1       8.4       6.1      5.6       4.8
October 16, 1972






ANNEX 1 1
Page 1 of 3 pages
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
TELECOMMMNICATIONS DIVISION
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
1. General
OPTS's present accounting system treats all operations jointly;
the final accounts and balance sheets do not show operating results and
financial positions for the respective postal/financial and telecommunica-
tions services.  Under present circumstances, therefore, given the large
itens in the accounts which are common to both services, the accuracy of
any accounts drawn up from existing data for individual services depends
on the accuracy of the allocation of common items of income, expenditure,
assets and liabilities. The accounts included in this report have been
prepared after drawing up a series of criteria for the allocation of
coomnon items between services; these were discussed with responsible
officials of OPTS and accepted as equitable.
The following notes relate to the main items of the Telecommuni-
cations Division's accounts in Annexes 8 and 9.
2. Statements of Income - Annex 8
(i) Telephone revenue
(a) Forecasts of revenue from domestic services have been pre-
pared after taking into account (i) the average number of
telephone lines estimated to be put into operation during
FYs 1973 through 19783 (ii) present trends in long distance
revenues for the main regions; and (iii) the estimated
effect on revenue in the related regions of the new long
distance facilities to be brought into service during the
period through FY 1973.
(b) International call revenue relates to terminal fees received
from TELESENEGAL and revenue from regional calUs made over
the OPTS network (see para. 2.10). In general, OPTS receives
20% of the total revenue from international calls made over
the TELESENEGAL network.
(ii) Telegraph revenue is expected to remain relatively stable during
the next few years; on the completion of the new telephone facil-
ities a slight decline in telegraph revenue is to be expected.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
(iii) Telex revenue has been forecast to increase at the following
rates:
rentai revenue                - 12% per annum
national call relvenue        - 20% per annum
international call revenue   - 15% per annum
(iv)  Salaries have been forecast to increase at 3% per annum with the
excepion of FYs 197  and 1976, when increases of 5% per annwn
have been provided.
(v) Other expenses are expected to increase at 10% per annum through
FY 197b.-
(vi)  Expenditure transferred to investment relates to the annual
cost of capital works carried out by OPTS's staff. Provision
has been included in OPTS's 1973-1976 construction program for
the estimated cost of these works.
(vii) Depreciation - a composite rate of h% per annum on average gross
fixed assets has been assumed. This rate takes into account that
withdrawn plant has not always been alienated in OPTS's plant
accounts (see para. 5.O8).
(viii) Interest - charges include interest on contracted loans and
suppliers' credit together with the estimated interest charges
on the proposed Bank :Loan. A provision has also been included
for interest on further borrowing in FYs 1977 and 1978.
(ix)  Postal deficit - The estimated surpluses from telecommunications
operations from FYs 1'369 through 1978 have been charged with the
estimated deficits from postal operations in those years.
3. Balance Sheets - Annex 9
(i) Work in progress at the end of each year has been related to the
construction schedule.
(ii)  Stocks have been brought to a slightly higher level to provide
for higher stocks of certain inventory items, particularly cable
materials.
(iii) Long-term receivables relate to the rescheduled Governnent
receivables (see para. 6.07).
(iv)  Sundry debtors and Payments in advance. Sundry debtors, which
are mainly subscribers' receivables, have been estimated after
taking into account OPTS's two-month billing cycle, billirg time



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
and collection difficulties.  It has been assumed that a reason-
able improvement will be made in private subscriber collections
(see paras. 5.08 and 5.09). Payments in advance relate to down
payments for equipment purchases.
(v) Governnent debts consist of the current portion of the
rescheduled Government receivables (see para. 6.07).
(vi)  Long-term debt - OPTS has contracted the following long-term
debts:
(a)  Loan - FACO) - CFAF325 million - 3% per annum, 20 years
including five years' grace, repayable by FY 1985.
(b) Loan - FAC (2) - CFAF200 million - 3% per annum, 20 years
including 12 years' grace, repayable by FY 1991.
(c) Loan - Caisse Central de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) -
CFAF150 million - t4-J per annumu, 12 years includlng
five years' grace, repayable by FY 1982. (This loan will
be drawn down in FY 1973).
(d)  Suppliers' Credit - Co  agnie Industriel des Td‡lcommuni-
cations (CIT) - CFAF51 .1 million - b+$ per annum, five years,
repayable by FY 1976.
(vii) Sundry creditors include subscribers' deposits, account payable
and receipts in advance.
July 20, 1972






ANNEX 1 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TECECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
TEIECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION
Financial Rate of Return - 1977/1980
1.        Based on available information and after making reasonable
assumptions for the revision to be made as from July 1, 1972, in the book
value of telecommunications assets (see para. 5.08) and for OPTS's finan-
cial requirements during the period oa the third development program
(1977-1980), it is estimated that a rate of return on net telecommuni-
cations fixed assets in operation of 9% per annum would be required after
1976.
2.       In making these calculations it has been assumed that:
(i)  the FY 1977-1980 development program would provide for an
average growth of about 8% per year on the gross fixed plant
in operation as of June 30, 1976, through June 30, 1980;
(ii)  a downward revision of 10% will be made in the book value
of OPTS's net fixed assets as of July 1, 1972;
(iii)  the annual surplus, after meeting telecommunications require-
ments, would be equivalent to the Postal/Financial Division
operational deficit and investment (see para. 6.03)e
3.        On this basis, a 9% rate of return would yield about CFAF2,000
(US$8) million during the four-year period (FY 1977-1980). The estimated
financing plan for the period would be as follows:
CFAF       CFAF
--  mili ion-S-
Requirements
Construction program (1977-1980)            2,900
liew program (1981-1984)                      150
Working capital                               250      3,300
Debt service                                           1,070
Surplus                                                  880
Total requirements                 5,250
Sources
Future borrowings (US$6.5 million)                     1,662
Depreciation provision                                 1,626
Net income after depreciation (9% rate of return)      2,000
Total sources                      5,288



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2 pages
1/
OPTS would be financing about 5o% -  of its program requirements, which
compares with 46% of the 1973-76 program.
4.        Present forecasts indicate that the net income would be in
excess of the requirements mentioned above; the rate of return would be
about 11.9% in 1977 and 13.7% in 1978. It would therefore remain for the
Governnent to decide whether to withdraw funds from OPTS or reduce the
present high tariff level.
October 12, 1972
1/    Net income plus depreciation less debt service and contribution
to Governaent,



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2 pages
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
POSTAL/FINANCIAL DIVISION
Financial Aspects
1.        Following the pattern adopted in France and other countries in
French-speaking West Africa, OPTS's Postal/Financial Division carries on
the usual postal service, including the quasi-banking service of domestic
and international money orders and a public checking account service.
2.        Although separate accounts are not kept for the division, it is
estinated that since OPTS's creation in 1960 postal/financial operations
have been and continue to be carried on at a loss. Operational losses
since 1969 are estimated to have been as follows:
Fy                        1969  1970  1971  1972
CFA Francs (millions)           182   191   154   116
Losses, together with postal/financial division investment, have been met
in the past from telecommunications surpluses. It is estimated that during
the 12 years since incorporation annual postal/financial division invest-
has averaged about CFAF25 million per annum.
3.        One of the reasons for thc losses on postal/financial operations
has been the unprofitability of the puiblic checking service. OPTS operates
this countrywide banking service at high cost, for which it only receives
the armual fees charged to depositors, which are ,xmall. OPTS is required
to deposit with the Public Treasury, free of interest, all funds held on
behalf of depositors. Private depositors' funds alene amount to CFAF2
billion (US$8.0 million).  Following representations by OPTS's management,
the Government has agreed to review tis matter and the payient of interest
up to 339 per annum on the funds of private deposi,tors placed with the
Public Treasury is under consideration.
4.        Payment to OPTS by the Gove,-nnment of interest on public checking
account funds would help to reduce bu' not elÓminate the annual deficit on
postal/financial operations. It is estimated thaK the following contri-
butions to cover operational losses and investment would stil1 be required
in the period FY 1973 through 1978:
FY                     1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
CFA Francs (millions)         75    99   123   149   122   154



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2 pages
5.        Although the Government is, of course, entitled to withdraw
surplus telecommunications funds from OPTS over and above those required
for operations and development (see para. 6.15), it should not continue
the practice of automatically charging losses and investment requirements
of the postal/financial division against telecommunications surpluses.
For reasons of operational and development efficiency and also financial
management, the two services should be considered separately. Therefore,
in addition to OPTS maintaining separate amounts for postal/financial
and telecommunications operations (see para. 5.09), during negotiations
the Government agreed that before applying surplus telecommunications
funds for other purposes it wil'l ensure that sufficient funds are avail-
able to meet the operational, debt service, and investment requirements
of OPTS's telecommunication services. The Government further agreed that
any remaining surplus, after meeting telecommunications requirements,
should be applied first in meeting deficits on OPTS's postal/financial
services before any transfer is made to the Governmnt. In the event of
there being insufficient funds available for OPTS's operations and invest-
ment the Governznent undertook ta take such steps satisfactory to the Bank
as shall be necessary to cover the deficit.  OPTS's financial estimates
indicate that during its construction period of the program the surplus
funds available from telecommunications operation would be sufficient to
cOver postal/financial deficits and permit an annual transfer of funds to
the Governient (see para. 6.15 and Annexes 10 and 16).
6S        In order to ensure the maximum efficiency of its postal/financial
services, OPTS agreed at negotiations that, once separate accounts have
been established for postal/financial and telecommunications operations
(see para. 5.09), it would undertake a review of the operations, staffing
and finances of its postal/financial services in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Given the inter-relationship
between the telecommunications and postal/financial services in Senegal
a sum of US$50,000 has been included in the loan to cover the foreign
costs of this review.
October 12, 1972



ANNEX 14
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
POSTAL-FINANCIAL DIVISION
Statements of Income - 1969-1978
(in millions o. CFA Frencs)
E s t i m a t e d                                    F o r e c a s t
Year ending June 30                         196       1970     1971      1972          1         1974      1975      1976      1977     1
REVENUE
Postal services                                        493.6    486.o    541.1    610.6           615.0    620.0    630.0    635.0    700.0    700.0
Financial services                                      98.5      94.9    101.3    108.7          180.0    182.0    184.0    186.0    188.0    190.0
Philately                                               33.5     32.7      35.8      30.0          35.0      34.o      33.0     33.0      33.0      33.0
Miscellaneous                                           25.4      29.2     24.3      30.0          30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                    651.0     6442.8    702.5    779.3         860.      866.o    877.0    804.0    951.0
EXPENSES
Salaries                                               563.7    566.1    571.5      590.2         608.0    626.o    645.0    664.o    684.o    704.0
Other oxpense                                          2334    232.0    247.8    264.7            278.0    292.0       0       322.0    338.0    355.0
797.1    798.1    819.3    854.9           886.o    918.0    952.0    986.o  1,022.0  1,059.0
Less: transferred to investment                          1.2       1.5      1.3       1.0           1.0       1.0       2.0      1.0       1.0       2.0
795.9    796.6    818.0    853.9           885.0    917.0    950.0    985.0  1,021.0  1,057.0
Depreciation                                            36.8     37.2      38.5      41.1          42.5      44.o     45.5      47.0      48.5      50.0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                   832.7    833.8    856.5    895.0           927.5    961.0    995.5  1,032.0  1&069.5  1,107.0
NET INCOEt (before interest)                            (181.7)   (191.0)  (154.0)   (115.7)        (67.5)   (95.0)  (118.5)  (148.0)  (118.5)   (154.o)
June 8, 1972






ANIE 15
SENEGAL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMIUNCATIONS DU SENEGAL (OPTS)
POSTAL-FINANCIAL DIVISION
Balance Sheets  -  1  9-1978
(in millions of CFA Francs
E s t i m a t e d                                         F o r e c a s t
As of June 30:                          1969      1970       1971      1972           1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978
ASSETS
Grass fixed assets                                       1,230.0   1,294.0   1,356.7   1,391.8         1,442.8   1,492.8   1,542.8   1,592.8   1,642.8   1,692.8
Less:  Depreciation                                        248.8     286.o      324.5     365.6          408.1     452.1      497.6     544.6      593.i     643.1
Net fixed assets                        981.2   1,008.0   1,032.2   1,026.2         1,034.7   1,040.7   l,045.2   l,048.2   1,049.7   1,049.7
Works in progress                                              -         -          -       6.o            5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0
Other assets
Housing advances to staff                                15.3       12.5      10.0        7.8            5.6       3.4        1.7         -          -          -
Inventories                                              24.7       28.2      30.0       30.0          32.0       32.0       34.o      34.o       36.0      36.0
Total other assets                      40.0       40.7      4o.0       37.8           37.6      35.4       35.7      34.0       36.0      36.0
Current assets
Cash and Treasury balances                            3,342.7   3,218.2   2,992.2   2,970.0          2,970.0   2,970.0   2,975.0   2,975.0   2,970.0   2,970.0
Receivables                                             123.1       87.5     220.8      230.0          230.0     230.0      235.0     235.0      240.o     240.0
Total current assets                 3,465.8   3,305.7   3,213.0   3,200.           3,200,0   3,200.0   3,210.0   3,210.0   3,210.0   3,21020
TOTAL ASSETS                   4,487.0   4,354.4   4,235.2   4270.           4,277.3    2         4,295.9   4,297.2   4,300.7   4,300.7
LIABILITIES
Capital                                                   669.1      669.1     669.1      669.1          669.1     669.1      669.1     669.1      669.1     669.1
Subsidies                                                  87.0       87.0      87.o       37.0           87.0      87.o       87.0      87.0       87.0      57.0
Contributions to investment from
Telecommunications Division                             265.1      292.6     316.1      313.9          321.2     325.0      329.3     331.1      334.6     334.6
Total equity                         1,021.2   1,048.7   1,072.2   1j, J.D         1,077.3   1,031.1   1,085.9   1,67.2 1 1,090.7   19
Current liabilities
Public checking account depositors                    3,392.3   3,134.5   3,014.0   3,000.o          3,9O0.O   3,020.O   3,003.0   3,D20.9   3,009.0   3,000.0
Sundry creditors                                         73.5      171.2     19.2)      0o0.0          200.0     20.D        10 .0    010.0      210.0     210.0
Total current liabilities            3,465.8   3,305.7   3,213.0   3,200.0          3,200.0   3,200.0   3,210      3,210.0   3,210.0   3,210.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES              4,487.0   4&354.4   4,285.2   4,270.0         4,277.3   4,281,1   4,295.9   4,297.2   4,300.7   4,300.7
June 8, 1972






9S~~~~ ~ Z                           CZ   Z :             O     Z H               21                     C      
<9              1                                         9   '  -    Q    H<        o    o                 9'   9 '
\i0~~ ~ ~~~ 0                        Z   2< O  I  - O    O      O            2             O   C   Z   .<
90~~~~                          t'   O        9 '  -.  O1 O' E-j                                <    t   Z 
'-2~e O                          9   '0  9< 9   O           <E   O            O            O   9   H   99
<, ID              fO             o                  HB F         
9'           O9      C<        I 9,,9                                   j'   g        I
a ~    ~     .        >   -9                     -                       -
H                     9 <   f:                   't       H   2    T        9
> o                   'I  -                    `2      9-   a    O        <9  9
99              O                 2                      g -   2D O                      O9
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 9                          -J       2        ,o
C D
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
S  <  .  < ÁB ‘ C. D;, O O, , 1 9<                                                                                    Z
N~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~                                  29 Nf IJ    '.0 N<W9
Il~ ~~~~ ~ ~ 1(  ZD O                                                          W 
RiO~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~0 I-II I< |W                                                                                        <9O C  <|N lo |< N101   ?rPrD       
R`n |, I l ~~~1101,                                        Ic|  L       |         '.0                         9'    9<n < 9 roijH H|
r-~~~               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H                                                            H iZ
EH  C         ]    |  l                        F |               Ht         <           r  <            
||   |   [I < I                     I                                     r  |  ∞    t|rI'
rFL  k< *k                                  r    'I-       Z v     I                     `
Ir r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<  r  rr  r           <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r






M A U R I T A N I A                                                                SENEGA L
EXISTING TELECOMMUNICATION
A F R I C A                                            T                                          NETWORK AS OF DEC. 31,19 71 &
rTELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
(    )    t><<>        1973-1976
,v / 84\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING 4 _.
∞   / 'Sr S ., .,   _ ----  ____  INTERURBAN CABLE
OVERHEAD LI NES I CARRI ER I                                           r
_______ -MICROWAVE (UNDER CONSTRUCTION) ,                  __`_.i_"_,_______
T ROPO SCATTE R LIN K
>    ‚\NUckokt SDsaIlar sÁ i  \\'ªGsss-                          ~~~~~~MI CROWIAVE                              K i
SI'Bo_TI ;D,t...............) CARRIER ON O. H. LINE /tz
. F- \OTUGUESE  G N,A                                 V H F. RADIO
tX  >    < a 1  uk  t    m   Rr                       ~~~~~~~~~~NUMBER OF LIlNES     /      eu        
<NIIOntt\< _ = ~~~~~~~~~~CAPITAL/ 
4 -.t v ~~PORTUGUESE GUINEA GUX   `    



