Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21 847-GH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.0 MILLION (US$7.60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
NORTHERN SAVANNA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
February 13, 2002
Rural Development II
Country Department 10
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Ghanaian Cedis
Cedis 1000 = US$0.15
US$1.00 = Cedis 7000
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adjustable Program Lending              MLGRD            Ministry of Local Govt. and Rural Development
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy             MOE              Ministry of Energy
CBO          Community-based Organizations           MOFA             Ministry of Food and Agriculture
CBD          Convention on Biological Diversity      MOH              Ministry of Health
CRI          Crop Research Institute                 NAFGIM           National Framework for Geo-Spatial Info. Mgt.
CSRPM        Center for Scientific Research into Plant  NGO           Non-Government Organization
Medicine
CWIQ         Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire   NRMP             Natural Resources Management Project
CWMP         Community Water and Sanitation Project  NSBCP            Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation
Project
DANIDA       Danish Aid Agency                       NTFP             Non-Timber Forest Products
DFID         Department for International Development  PADP           Protected Area Development Project
(UK)
DOF          Department of Fisheries                 PGRC             Plant Genetic Resource Center
EPA          Environmental Protection Agency         PCU              Project Coordinating Unit
ESMP         Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan  RDG            The Royal Danish Government
EU           European Union                          RNG              The Royal Netherlands Government
FC           Forestry Commission                     SRMC             Savanna Resources Management Center
FMC          Forest Management Committees            SRMP             Savanna Resources Management Project
FORIG        Forestry Research Institute of Ghana    TAMD             Traditional and Alternative Medicines
Directorate
FSD          Forestry Services Division of the Forestry  TBA          Traditional Birth Attendants
Commission
GHATRAM      Ghana Association of Traditional and    THA              Traditional Healers' Association
Alternative Medicines
GLSS         Ghana Living Standard Survey            UNDP/GEF/SGP     U`NDP/GEF Small Grants Program
IPR          Intellectual Property Rights            VIP              Village Infrastructure Project
IPM          Integrated Pest Management              WD               Wildlife Division of the Forestry Commission
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation               WFP              World Food Program
MEST         Ministry of Environment, Science and    WPAMC            Wildlife Protected Area Management
Technology                                               Committees
MLF          Ministry of Lands and Forestry
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:        Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:        Edward F. Dwumfour



GHANA
NORTHERN SAVANNA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         15
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   1 8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           19
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          20
4. Institutional                                                                      20
5. Environmental                                                                      22
6. Social                                                                             24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     29



2. Critical risks                                                                     29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     30
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           30
2. Other                                                                              30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         30
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         57
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analyses                                                       58
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               67
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       72
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     85
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   86
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  88
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            90
Annex 11: Commnunity Participation                                                       92
Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                      95
Annex 13: Enviromental and Social Impact Assessment                                     103
Annex 14: Description of Selected Project Sites                                         109
MAP(S)
IBRD 29270



GHANA
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR2
Date: January 2, 2002                             Team Leader: Edward Felix Dwumfour
Country Manager/Director: Peter Harrold           Sector Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: P067685                               Sector(s): VY - Other Environment
Theme(s): Environment
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                      Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit   [X] Grant     [] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): GEF Amount: $7.60 million; PDF Amount: $0.3 million
Total Project Cost: $8.51 million
Total Program Cost: $28.1 million
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                              2.00           0.00          2.00
DENMARK: DANISH INTL. DEV. ASSISTANCE (DANIDA)                  0.00           2.10          2.10
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - ASSOCIATED IDA FUND                        4.30           7.00         11.30
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     4.00           3.90          7.90
NETHERLANDS: MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS / MIN. OF                  0.00           4.80  |       4.80
DEV. COOP.
Financing Gap                                                  -0.20           0.20
Total:                                                         10.10          18.00         28.10
Borrower/Recipient: GHANA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF LANDS, FORESTRY AND MINES
Address: Ministry of Lands and Forestry
P.O. Box M212
Accra, Ghana
Contact Person: Mr. James Amissah, NRMP Program Administrator
Tel: (233) (021) 687314, 687 336, 666 801        Fax: 233 (021) 666 801           Email:
jamissah(mlf-gh.com
Other Agency(ies):
Forestry Commission
Address: P.O. Box M434
Accra, Ghana
Contact Person: Mr. Musah Abu-Juam
Tel: 233 (021) 221 315, 771 690, (024) 362 510       Fax:              Email: majuam@ighmail.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY          2002      2003        2004      2005       2006      2007
Annual     2.70       0.96       1.05       0.94       1.03      0.92
Cumulative    2.70        3.66       4.71       5.65      6.68       7.60
Project implementation period: 6 years



- 2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's development objective is to improve the livelihood and health of communities in the
northern savanna zone of Ghana, and the environment through the conservation and sustainable use of
natural resources including medicinal plants. Specific objectives are to: (i) develop a savanna resources
management strategy framework as a complement to the National Forest and Wildlife Policy, based on
improved capacity in the region; (ii) strengthen institutional capacities; (iii) improve the conservation and
management of nationally and globally significant plant and animal species, and their habitats including the
maintenance of field gene banks of threatened indigenous crop varieties and medicinal plants; and (iv)
provide convincing technological and cultural justification for community involvement and enhance
community awareness for adoption of improved biodiversity management plans and conservation measures.
Global objective
The global environment objective is to identify, monitor and conserve key components of the
biodiversity of the northern savanna zone.  This would be achieved by: (i) protecting the existing
biodiversity in and around reserve areas; (ii) identifying habitats and 'hotspots' of endemic species in need
of greater protection: (iii) developing a comprehensive strategy and action plans to manage and conserve
the savanna biodiversity; (iv) adopting an integrated ecosystem management approach; (v) protecting
sacred groves, other dedicated community reserves and other sources of biodiversity such as threatened
medicinal plants through cultivation and conservation; (vi) preserving local knowledge of biodiversity
management and use including traditional phytomedicines; and (vii) supporting the cultivation and
protection of indigenous and threatened farmer crop varieties.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project duration is six years, with PYI beginning in 2002 and PY6 ending in 2008. The key
performance indicators include:
(i)    number of policy frameworks and strategies aimed at sustainable savanna resource management
(10 forest reserve management plans, two wildlife reserve management plans and two faunal
corridors management plans) developed and implemented by end of project;
(ii)  increased public awareness on biodiversity issues through the design and implementation of
targeted multi-media programs and increased capacity for biodiversity management through
targeted investment programs within conmmunities and public agencies at local and national levels;
(iii)  measurable reduction in poverty and improved health care and livelihood systems among the
resource fringing communities attributed to improved ecosystem management and the development
of alternative livelihood systems as measured by secondary information, the Ghana Living
Standard Survey (GLSS),
(iv)   functioning Northern Savanna Biodiversity database including a herbarium and information on
medicinal plants and their use, traditional healers' associations (THA) and traditional birth
attendants (TBA) developed and integrated with Savanna Resources Management Information
System by the end of the project;
-3 -



(v)    number of hectares and areas of globally significant savanna biodiversity incorporated into the
protected area system and effectively managed through in-situ conservation and management (with
active involvement of the fringing communities) by the end of the project;
(vi)   number of hectares in six selected degraded areas fully rehabilitated through improved land and
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use measures involving the communities (with active
participation of women and youth groups) by end of project;
(vii) a network of corridors (two) established and developed by end of project to ensure free movement
of wildlife between Ghana, Togo and Burkina Faso using: (a) the Sisili Central Forest Reserve -
Podo Forest Reserve, Chiana Hills Forest Reserve - Nazinga Game Ranch Continuum; and (b) the
Red Volta River Forest Reserve, The White Volta River Gallery Forest - Morago River Forest
Reserve Continuum; and
(viii) number of communities actively participating in conservation and management of biodiversity
resources (in and around forests, wildlife reserves and faunal corridors); and number of Wildlife
Protected Area Management Committees (WPAMCs) and Forest Management Committees
(FMCs) which involve representatives of the fringing communities established by the end of the
project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-26     Date of latest CAS discussion: March 30, 2000
The Bank's sector-related CAS goal aims at improving the performance of agriculture to reduce
poverty by increasing productivity in food crops and expanding opportunities in commercial crops. In
addition, to ensure the sustainability of growth, environmental concerns would also be addressed. The key
natural resources management issues in Ghana are land and forest degradation and the loss of biodiversity
associated with unsustainable harvesting levels in the high forest and savanna, and inappropriate farming
practices. The Bank's main instrument to support the government's efforts to ensure sustainable
development is the Natural Resources Management Program (NRMP) Adaptable Program Lending (APL)
which the NSBCP would complement and overlap during the NRMP's Phases I, II and III. The NSBCP
would support the sector-related CAS objectives through the promotion of sustainable use and management
of Ghana's northem savanna zone. Specifically, the project would achieve this through: (a) improving
livelihoods and health of the population in the northem savanna zone; (b) ensuring social and rural
development by building capacity in communities to carry out environmental protection and sustainable
natural resource management; (c) reducing poverty through better management of productive resources;
and (d) increasing commnunity participation and productivity, particularly in the more disadvantaged rural
parts of the country.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The project's overall objective supports GEF's Operational Program Number 1 on "Arid and
Semi-Arid Zone Ecosystems". Project activities also respond to GEF Council's approved document
GEF/C. 14/4 (December 1999), "Clarifying linkages between land degradation and the GEF focal areas: an
action plan for enhancing GEF support." Whereas the main thrust of the project is biodiversity
conservation in the savanna zone, the project has vital components and cross-links to land degradation and
- 4 -



desertification. In addition, the project is consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy for Biodiversity, as
well as Article 8(j) of the Convention on Biological Diversity regarding the protection and conservation of
medicinal plants, benefit sharing and protecting indigenous knowledge. No prior project of this type has
been implemented in the savanna ecosystem and lessons leamt from this project could provide valuable
insights into the design and implementation of projects in other savanna regions in the future. The
anthropogenic threats facing this fragile zone, endemism and the increasing rarity of some species justify
the modest resources that are required to find better ways of managing this ecosystem, sustaining local
communities and reducing poverty. In addition, the project would provide valuable insights into the design
and implementation of projects in other savanna regions worldwide in the future.
Savanna ecosystems cover about 50 percent of the land area of Africa. In Ghana, as in many areas
in Africa, savanna woodlands provide valuable environmental services and provide critical refuge for native
biodiversity, and protection for soil and water resources against degradation. The northern and coastal
savanna zones support about 20 percent of the national population and supply about 70 percent of Ghana's
total supply of firewood and charcoal estimated at 16 million m3. The area also provides medicinal plants,
roofing grasses, fencing poles, and fruits (e.g., shea-nut, an increasingly important export commodity).
Savanna bushmeat, including various indigenous rodents, antelopes, reptiles and gastropods, is an
important source of animal protein (providing about 12 percent of the rural communities' protein
consumption) and revenue for local impoverished communities. The savanna woodlands also have
beneficial effects on the local climate and constitute a natural barrier to the desiccating harmattan winds
from the Sahara, helping to maintain a favorable micro-climate for agricultural production in the south.
In the northem savanna region, the survival of indigenous land varieties of important food crops
and an increasing number of medicinal plant species is being threatened. This is caused by the expansion of
agriculture into savanna and arid and semi-arid areas, combined with over-grazing, bushfires, and
inappropriate crop management which contribute to degradation of biological diversity. Under the NSBCP,
strategies would be developed to ensure the sustainable use and propagation of threatened, indigenous crop
varieties and medicinal plants, and to ensure that genetic stocks and knowledge on biological resources
management and conservation would be preserved. NSBCP would also focus on the conservation,
management and possible reintroduction on farmers' farms of indigenous crop varieties which are being
replaced by high-yielding, high input crop hybrids and species.
During preparation activities for the NSBCP, funded by the PDF-B grant, it became apparent that
management and conservation of agro-biodiversity and the maintenance of sustainability of medicinal
plants use were critical for community welfare because of their role in food security and traditional health
care. Safeguarding indigenous cultural resource management and conservation systems such as sacred
groves can contribute to alleviating poverty at the community level. Indigenous knowledge represents the
intellectual capital of local communities, and is a potentially cost-effective and sustainable resource in the
development process. Because this knowledge is seldom documented or appreciated it is underutilized in
project development and communities are constrained in their ability to shape and achieve development
priorities. The NSBCP would enhance the capacity of community-based organizations to share and
disseminate indigenous knowledge, and contribute to sustaining their cultural heritage.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues. About 60 percent of the total population in Ghana is rural. Poverty is highly
concentrated in rural areas and among small fanners, particularly in the savanna zones. The incidence of
poverty in the rural areas is high (36 percent) and accounts for 84 percent of total poverty in Ghana.
Social indicators are also very low for these areas. Ghana's limited financial resources means that no
-5 -



extensive programs of social protection are in place in these areas. To ensure that growth in Ghana benefits
the poor, the Government has emphasized an improved performance in agriculture by increasing food crops
production and expanding opportunities in commercial crops. Such initiatives place pressure on the
environment and to ensure sustainability of growth, the environmental concerns would need to be
adequately addressed. At the same time, the government's reform of the health sector through
implementation of its Medium Term Health Strategy Towards Vision 2020 seeks to improve the health of
Ghanaians by increasing access, quality, and efficiency of health services and forging linkages with other
partners in health development.
Environmental Issues. The key pervasive natural resource management issues in Ghana are land
degradation and deforestation, and the loss of biodiversity associated with unsustainable harvesting levels
in the savanna, compounded by inappropriate farming practices and annual wildfires. Also related are
issues of lack of effective enforcement of institutional and policy framework for implementing ecologically
and socio-economically sustainable management systems for savanna woodland and wildlife resources, in
collaboration with local communities.
The major causes of loss of biodiversity and natural resource degradation in the savanna zones are
related to tremendous pressure from growing human and livestock populations, agricultural expansion,
inappropriate farming practices, deforestation, annual bush fires, and introduction of crop varieties that are
replacing indigenous varieties. Loss of vegetative cover and inappropriate farming practices contribute
increasingly to land degradation. Other contributing factors include: (a) a poorly developed market system
that does not price exploited natural resources at their real economic value while providing easy and open
access to dwindling but cheap natural resources; (b) inefficient public regulating agencies with overlapping
responsibilities; (c) inadequate/negligible involvement of key stakeholders including local communities in
natural resource management; (d) weak institutional capacity in the wildlife sector and little involvement of
communities in the management and sustainable use of biodiversity resource; (e) weak inter-agency
coordination in planning/monitoring natural resource use, especially at the district and community levels;
and (f) unavailability of any effective national or local level policies, regulations or guidelines on issues
related to land tenure and ownership, right of access to and use of resources by rightful owners, protection
of indigenous knowledge, and intellectual property rights.
Government Strategy. The Government of Ghana is implementing a country-wide, ten-year
adaptable program lending, the Natural Resources Management Program (NRMP), whose objective is to
protect, rehabilitate and sustainably manage national land, forest and wildlife resources and to sustainably
increase the income of rural communities who own these resources. The full program is addressing issues
of conservation, enhancement and sustainable utilization of Ghana's land, forest, savanna woodland and
wildlife resources in full and active collaboration and consultation with rural communities and other rural
institutions. Specific policy and institutional reforms to achieve these objectives are directed at four areas:
(i) procedures for allocating timber utilization contracts, (ii) policies on the maximization of forest revenue
and trade from natural resources trade in products and services, and (iii) the restructuring of forest and
wildlife sector institutions. Technical and analytical studies to design a coherent sector-wide program of
policy and institutional reforms have been undertaken, resulting in the adoption of a new National Forest
and Wildlife Policy in 1994 based on three pillars of resource protection, sustainable production, and
involvement of local rural people. Subsequently, a system-wide master plan, the National Forestry
Development Master Plan (1996-2020), was developed to implement the policy. Companion Wildlife
legislation is also being prepared. Other existing programs and policies related to natural resources
management in the savanna zone include the National Wetlands Conservation Strategy (1999), the National
Land Policy (1999), the Five-year (1998-2003) Wildlife Development Plan, the National Environmental
- 6-



Action Plan (1991), the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (unpublished), the National Soil
Fertility Management Action Plan (1998), the National Action Plan to Combat Drought and Desertification
(in preparation), and the Traditional Medicine Practices Act (Act 575 of 2000). The draft National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan and the National Forest Protection Strategy seek to: (a) safeguard
genetic diversity and diversity of indigenous species through an ecosystem approach to management within
all ecological zones; (b) improve knowledge of the distribution and status of rare; threatened and endemic
fauna and flora species through targeted surveys; and (c) enhance protection of critical areas for migratory
species through improved monitoring and habitat management. The recently adopted National Land Policy
(1999) seeks the application of the principles of sustainable resource development to the management of the
country's land and water resources.
Govermment Health Posts, when present in rural communities in the northern savanna zone are
poorly equipped and administered, and per capita allopathic drug expenditure is low. Rural healthcare in
Ghana is provided partially by traditional healers and traditional birth attendants who are dependent on a
sustainable supply of medicinal plants. To bolster their role in healthcare, the Traditional Medicines
Practices Act was passed by Parliament in early 2000. The Act is the first of its kind in Africa and would
legitimize traditional medicines and healers. In addition, it would provide the basis for regulating the
practice of traditional medicine, register practitioners and license premises for practice. Furthermore, as the
use of medicinal plants in health care is legitimized by the law there would be increased activity in the
harvesting and use of plants thereby placing more pressure on rare or threatened medicinal plant species.
A further indication of the importance attached to medicinal plants and traditional health systems is
evident in recent actions taken by the Government of Ghana to adopt MOH's Medium-Term Health
Strategy (Revised August, 1999) one of whose important objectives is to integrate safe and regulated
traditional medical practices into the national health system. This would be accomplished by strengthening
the Traditional and Alternative Medicine Directorate (TAMD) of MOH to: (i) deal with policy and
research issues; (ii) provide adequate information on phytomedicines; (iii) establish mechanisms for
regulation and control of traditional medicines through associations at the district, regional and national
levels; (iv) ensure safety of practices; and (v) facilitate regular interaction between traditional and
allopathic systems. The passing of the law and adoption of the strategy by the Government of Ghana give
added importance to the role traditional medicine plays in healthcare provision and points to the need for
greater collaboration between public and private health providers and cooperation between specific key
state institutions mainly the Ministry of Lands and Forestry (MLF) and the MOH.
The Plant Genetic Resource Center (PGRC) which operates under the auspices of the Ministry of
Environment, Science and Technology (MEST) and based at Bunso with a basic assignment to collect,
conserve, characterize and document plant genetic resources in the country. The Center maintains, beside
the ex-situ/in-vivo facilities, an arboretum which contains timber species, medicinal plants, non-timber
species and fruit trees. PGRC carries out collaborative studies with a number of research and academic
institutions including the Crop Research Institute (CRI), Savanna Agricultural Research Institute (SARI),
Forestry Research Institute of Ghana (FORIG), the Botany Department, the University of Ghana Legon,
the Center for Scientific Research into Plant Medicine (CSRPM), and NGOs working with communities to
preserve biological resources and natural habitats including sacred groves. PGRC has an important role to
play in ex-situ management of farmer crop varieties and medicinal plants and the proposed national plant
genetic resources conservation and management strategy.
Animal diseases constitute a serious constraint to poultry and livestock production. It is estimated
that if livestock parasitic worns and Newcastle disease of poultry were adequately controlled, small
ruminant and village chicken production would increase at least 60 percent. The Animal Research Institute,
- 7 -



MEST, in collaboration with CSRPM, is examining ethno-veterinary practices as a means of reducing the
cost of imported orthodox veterinary drugs. It is speculated that expensive antibiotics can be replaced,
partly or wholly with preparations from locally available medicinal plants. The Ministry of Food and
Agriculture has supported agricultural extension and NGO projects that assist communities to identify
non-burning strategies in the northem savanna zone. A program in Nandom, Upper West Region has
successfully been implemented resulting in improved livestock husbandry, increased incomes from
non-timber forest products (NTFPs), regeneration of local tree and medicinal plant species, and a morale
booster to local people.
Forestry Policy. In recent years, the Ministry of Lands and Forestry and the departments and
agencies under it, especially the Forest Services Division and the Wildlife Division, have become
increasingly aware of the need for development of the savanna woodland management strategy for the three
northern regions. Within forest reserves of the High Forest zone, the Forest Services Division of the
Forestry Commission is implementing a comprehensive set of forest protection strategies based on an
extensive plant diversity survey undertaken in 1990 to 1992 with the support of the Department for
Intemational Development (DFID) (UK) under the Forestry Inventory and Management Project. These
strategies are to ensure that the genetic diversity of the forest and its environmental protection functions are
not eroded further. Although the plant diversity survey did not cover the savanna areas, it could serve as a
starting point for development of other strategies for the savanna. The Government of Ghana is also
currently implementing four schemes of priority species protection (species restrictions, complete
protection, restricted usage and seed tree and provenance protection) plus a set of comprehensive general
forest protection strategy for the high forest zone. Such measures would also be needed for the Savannah
zone.
In Ghana, forest and woodland reserves were set aside for various reasons - sustained timber and
non-timber forest product extraction, watershed protection, habitat (landscape) and genetic conservation.
Environmental and biodiversity imperatives are considered in forest management and specifically in the
working plans. The Gambaga Scarp East Forest Reserve, for example, in past management plans,
addressed the issues of encroachment by farmers and identification of medicinal plants peculiar to the scarp
environment and their silvicultural regimes.
NTFPs are an important resource in the livelihood systems of many rural households and
communities in Ghana. Many rural communities in the northern savanna zone depend on NTFPs to varying
degrees. Like in many developing countries, Forest Policy as it relates to NTFPs in Ghana has historically
been absent, overlooked or inadequate. However, recent trends and awareness have elevated the issue of
NTFPs at both local and national levels. The draft National Forest Protection Strategy seeks to ensure
sustainability and preserving genetic diversity within non-timber forest species that are collected by rural
populations for medicinal and consumptive uses through improved data collection, regulation of harvesting,
and proactive management. The NSBCP would support and strengthen activities that concretize these
policy and strategic goals on the ground.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would address key sector issues as follows.
*   Limited institutional capacity to manage biodiversity and natural resources and sustainable use
practices would be addressed through strengthening the foundation and processing capacity for
conservation strategies, including empowerment of women and youth, and enhancing their access to
productive resources and services.
-8 -



*   Habitat degradation, inadequate conservation efforts and unsustainable resource collection practices
would be addressed through the establishment of reliable and state-of-the-art technology management
systems on savanna resources management with active involvement of the fringing communities.
*   Inadequate quantitative data on economic benefits and long-term sustainabilitv of savanna resources
would be addressed by collecting and documenting baseline data obtained through a socio-economic
assessment of the three northern regions. Data would be collected on the number of people depended
on savanna resources, in particular non-timber forest products, sources of supply, volumes and values
purchased, conditions of use, and sustainability of supplies. The database would include a savanna
resources database and a full-scale management information system on savanna biodiversity issues.
*   Active participation of rural communities in the conservation and management decision-making process
through WPAMCs and FMCs would be developed, along with community-based actions to implement
sustainable natural and biodiversity resources management, in particular with communities living in
and around the parks and reserves.
*   Inadequate facilities for education and awareness, limited levels of communication between
communities, and the need to increase expertise in formulating public resource management programs
would be developed through collaboration between government and private sector organizations to
develop radio and video presentations for broadcasting and/or travelling videos to outlying rural
communities.
*   Community-based management actions and the development of altemative livelihood system would be
enhanced by building on indigenous knowledge to protect indigenous crop varieties, manage medicinal
plant resources and implement sustainable in-situ and ex-situ resources management programs.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would consist of four main components: (a) formulation of a policy framework; (b) capacity
building and awareness raising of key government, private and civil society and institutions playing a key
role in the project's implementation; (c) biodiversity conservation, research and development; and (d)
project management, monitoring and evaluation.
(a)    Formulating the Policy Framework. This component would support the development of a policy
framework and strategies for the conservation and management of biodiversity in the northern savanna
zone. The component would also support development of specific plans and strategies for ten forest
reserves, two wildlife reserves and two faunal corridors. In addition, the component would support the
finalization and publishing of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, which would contain a
section on a strategy on bio-prospecting and biosafety development. Some of these policies are expected to
have global implications and application regarding the use, conservation and management of biodiversity as
well as rare, or threatened medicinal plants and fanner crop varieties. For that reason, the process would be
consultative and would involve reaching agreements with all key stakeholders including communities,
farmers, associations and groups, healers, and others involved in the project. The component would also
support the development of policies and guidelines on Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) for regulating
bioresources collection and prospecting and for protecting and sharing indigenous knowledge and benefits
-9-



accruing from conservation and management. Region-wide and conununity specific biodiversity
conservation education and awareness campaigns would be supported by the project and implemented by
EPA and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) with expertise in animation, and participatory
techniques.
(b)    Capacity Building and Awareness Raising. The project would strengthen the capacities of central
government agencies (MLF, MOH, MLGRD, MEST/EPA, MOFA, SRMC) at the national, regional and
district levels, private sector organizations, research and academia, rural NGOs and community-based
organizations (CBOs), women and youth groups, environmental and social associations, and local
communities for implementing project activities and ensuring sustainability of biodiversity management,
utilization and conservation. The project would provide financing and technical assistance support to
strengthen TAMD and improve collaboration between MLF and MOH. TAMD would also provide the
link between MOH and key non-governmental traditional medicines and healer associations in the country
(e.g., the Ghana Association of Traditional and Alternative Medicines (GHATRAM), TBAs, THAs, and
the Federation of Regional Healer Associations). The project would also fund a geographic information
system database and develop a biodiversity management information system to provide reliable and easily
accessible information for use by resource managers, researchers, conservationists, private sector,
communities and policy and decision makers. A biodiversity monitoring and evaluation system, which
would be built into the MIS, would afford resource managers tools to monitor changes in the ecosystem and
socio-economics of the project areas. NSBCP would establish a herbarium in Tamale, which would be
linked with other research institutions (e.g., the University of Development Studies and the National
Herbarium at the University of Ghana, Legon). The project would support local communities and civil
societies and develop an education and public awareness programs on natural resources and biodiversity
conservation throughout the northem savanna zone. Formal and non-formal education and awareness
raising programs would be supported by the project. A comprehensive, community-based public education
and awareness would focus on the following: general biodiversity conservation and natural resource use,
codification and dissemination of best land management practices, sustainable development in the
traditional renewable energy sector through intensive woodlot development, wildfire prevention and
management, and production of training and information materials, etc. This component would build on
indigenous knowledge in sustainable use and conservation of natural resources through community-based
initiatives.
(c)    Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Development. This component would support: (i)
development and implementation of biodiversity management and conservation systems in 12 protected
areas, (ii) improvement of land management, and restoration of degraded lands in six pilot areas; (iii)
sustainable development of biodiversity in wildlife corridors; (iv) sustaining medicinal plant resources; (v)
in-situ germplasm  development and conservation; and (vi) ex-situ gernplasm  development and
conservation. Under this component, management plans would be developed and implemented for 10 pilot
priority areas of protected forests, two wildlife reserves and two faunal conidors. These pilot protected
area systems were selected based on the degree of biological diversity in the area, main threats to
biodiversity, and net global benefits. Selection of the six degraded pilot off-reserve areas would be done
before the project becomes effective. In addition, to protect indigenous crop varieties, the component
would fund documentation and identification of threatened varieties, establishment of gene banks with
abandoned indigenous crop varieties and medicinal plant species, and cultivation and propagation of
reintroduced farmer crop varieties. Taking lessons from the EU-funded Protected Area Development
Project (PADP I), which is field testing community collaborative resource management in the high forest
zone of the country, as well as from experiences gained by the Resources Management Support Center of
the Forestry Commission in instituting collaborative/joint forest resource management in the high forest
zone, the component would support the formation and strengthening of WPAMCs and FMCs. Through this
- 10 -



component and these committees, communities would participate in the management of forest and wildlife
reserves and national parks and become co-managers of biodiversity resources. The component would
support the protection of sacred groves which are important indigenous and traditional mechanisms for
protecting biodiversity. Sacred groves are being threatened by changes in religion, beliefs and practices in
addition to uncontrolled burning and agricultural expansion. The component would also support the
development and implementation of community resource management action plans and the establishment of
community dedicated reserves.
(d)    Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. This component would establish a project
management unit and strengthen SRMC which would be responsible for supervising and monitoring the
implementation of the project. Looking at the specialized nature of the project and that the biodiversity of
the savanna zone is being considered for the first time on such a scope and level, a project coordinator
would be hired locally to coordinate implementation for a period of six years. Working under the SRMC
and the SRMC Steering commnittee, the NSBCP coordinator would be directly answerable to the NRMP
Program Director. There would be no need to establish at the project level another steering committee
solely for NSBCP coordination. The NSBCP would support capacity building of the project management
unit and that of key stakeholders at all levels to monitor progress in implementation of project activities and
policies on savanna biodiversity resource conservation and management as well as achievement of project
outputs and objectives. Under this component, NSBCP would provide support for evaluating the
environmental, social and economic impacts of the project (at local, regional, national and global levels) on
intended beneficiaries and natural resources system. The component would also support the establishment
of monitoring and evaluation systems to mitigate any adverse environmental and social impacts that would
emanate as a result of project implementation.
Table 1: NSBCP Incremental Costs
Indicative        Bank     % of     GEF     % of
Component              Sector       Costs    % of  financing  Bank   financing  GEF
.___ ____ ____ ____ ____  ________(USSM)  Total  (USSM)  financing  (US$M)  financing
Formulating the Policy   Institutional       0.50      5.9   0.00       0.0    0.48     6.3
Framework                Development
Capacity Building and    Institutional       3.07     36.1   0.00       0.0    2.76    36.3
Awareness Raising        Development
Biodiversity Conservation,  Institutional    3.64     42.8   0.00       0.0    3.25    42.8
Research and Development  Development
Project Management,      Public Sector        1.30    15.3   0.00       0.0    1.11    14.6
Monitoring and Evaluation  Management
Adjustment
Total Project Costs                  8.51    100.0   0.00       0.0    7.60   100.0
0.00     0.0    0.00      0.0     0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required                  8.51    100.0   0.00       0.0    7.60   100.0
Note: Indicative incremental costs for the NSBCP include taxes, physical and price contingencies.
The development of NRMP Phases 1, 11 and III would link with this project and address activities which
will have more local and national benefits. The activities under the NRMP will build on the general
planning processes developed and test and implement specific action programs to enhance global benefits in
the savanna zone. These overlapping interventions over the next six years of the NSBCP are funded under
- 11 -



IDA and are estimated to cost about US$11.3 million in total. These costs are not included in the NSBCP's
incremental project costs of US$8.51 million in order to avoid double counting. IDA's contribution by
component is shown separately in Table 2 below:
Table 2: NRMP and NSBCP Overlavving Activities - Incremental Costs by Component
Component              Sector       Bank Financing   GEF Financing     Total Incremental
NRMP (US$ M)     NSBCP (USS M)      Costs (US$ M)
Formulating the Policy   Institutional
Framework                Development            1.20             0.48               1.68
Capacity Building and    Institutional
Awareness Raising        Development            1.20             2.76              3.96
Biodiversity Conservation,  Institutional
Research and Development  Development           7.10             3.25              10.35
Project Management, Monitoring Public Sector
and Evaluation           Management             1.80              1.11             2.91
Adjustment     _
Total Program Cost                             11.30             7.60             18.91
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Through the project and through the work under the NRMP, a general regional policy for
conserving savanna biodiversity would be developed. This would provide a framework for a sustainable
natural resources and biodiversity management. The project would build on the community-based
management planning processes set up under the NRMP I to formulate and initiate specific programs to
improve the savanna zone's local and national living benefits. The project would aim to establish the global
benefits relating to the forest reserves, wildlife protected areas, savanna woodland, and integrated
community based watershed management.
The draft National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan which is concentrating mainly on the
high forest zone, neither addresses land degradation issues in the northern savanna regions nor the different
ethnic and cultural perspectives of the savanna zone. Specific suggestions and revision of the biodiversity
strategy and action plan would be developed and incorporated into the final version of the plan. The project
would develop a policy framework to address such problems as community rights over natural resources
under open access regimes using a consultative process with traditional authorities, District and Regional
Assemblies, Government agencies (such as EPA, MLF, MOFA, MOH and MEST) and NGOs. The role of
women, youth and other vulnerable groups would also be taken into account.
A savanna biodiversity committee/consultative group, when appropriate, would be established
under the general leadership of the NSBCP, supported by the SRMC, and would include relevant
government institutions, NGOs, and political and traditional authorities as well as community
representatives. It is envisaged that SRMC and NSBCP would be linked and networked for the sustainable
management and conservation of natural and environmental resources.
- 12 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits from the proposed project are expected to accrue to people at local, community,
district, regional, national and global levels. The project would target the communities of the northem
savanna zone as the primary beneficiaries. Benefits would also accrue to the population in other regions
from improved management of savanna resources and biodiversity.
At the local/community level, the project's primary beneficiaries would be the people and
communities of the northern savanna zone. Rural communities would benefit from improved biodiversity
management in which they would directly participate and from sustainability of threatened natural and
agro-biological resources. The health and nutrition of communities and livestock would be improved
through using appropriate and sustainable harvesting and cultivation systems that allow for the systematic
use of proven crop and medicinal plant products.
At the national and regional levels, secondary benefits would accrue to people in other regions of
the country from the improved use of savanna resources and their contribution to the national economy.
The environmentally sustainable use of woodland and wildlife reserves and adjacent lands would preserve
global biodiversity and enhance rural incomes in addition to benefiting from enhanced environmental, soil,
water and wildlife habitat management. Improvement of degraded lands would have similar effects.
Improved management and conservation of biodiversity would ensure a continued supply of non-timber
savanna resources (e.g., livestock fodder, honey, fruits (such as dawadawa, Shea nuts), firewood, dyes,
thatch, bushmeat, gums, straw and fiber, teak leaves (for wrapping products), decorative plants and
animals, insects (e.g., termites for poultry feed, caterpillars for human consumption), live birds as pets
(e.g., doves and canary birds)) including medicinal plants and animals which would differentially impact
the poorest segments of the population. The replicable lessons learned through conservation of indigenous
agro-biodiversity would also potentially benefit people in the entire African savanna environment.
At the global level, the main benefits of the project would be the conservation, management and
sustainable use of Ghana's northem savanna ecosystems and their unique biodiversity with increased
participation of the local communities. The identification, conservation and propagation of medicinal plants
would also enhance global knowledge and understanding of these resources.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Project would be implemented over six years as part of the broader NRMP with the MLF
acting as the Government's main implementing agency. At the project's governing level overall coordination
would be handled by the NRM Program Coordinating Committee (PCC) under MLF in collaboration with
MOFA, MEST/EPA, MOH, MLGRD, and representatives from the private sector and civil society. The
project would utilize existing mechanisms developed under NRMP I (i.e., PCC, the Project Coordinating
Unit at MLF, SRMP Steering Committee, Coordination Meetings of Government of Ghana and Donors,
Meetings of Multi- and Bilateral Donors, Joint Project Support Missions of Government of Ghana and
Donors) to ensure effective donor coordination and collaboration as well as supervision of activities
relating to management and conservation of savanna resources and biodiversity.
At the project facilitation level, implementation would be supervised and monitored by the existing
SRMP Steering Committee, a Sub-Committee of the NRM PCC and the SRMC. The multi-disciplinary
nature of the SRMC would facilitate co-ordination of implementation of interventions. It is also at this level
that technical and human support needed for supervising and monitoring project implementation would be
provided by a number of public, private and civil society organizations. MOFA would provide expertise to
-13 -



support issues regarding agro-biodiversity, MEST/EPA would lend support to public education and
awareness raising, and environmental management and co-ordination (particularly issues of degraded land),
MOH would be responsible for the protection of indigenous knowledge on health care and the provision of
affordable health care services through traditional healer associations; MLGRD and the District
Assemblies would support local level natural resource management. The project would recruit a
Coordinator who would lead implementation of interventions during the project's lifespan. NSBCP would
utilize existing expertise provided through staff secondment to the SRMC from MOFA, EPA, MLGRD
and FC. This list would be complemented with a staff from TAMD of MOH who would be assisting in the
coordination and facilitation of implementation of activities related to the development and conservation of
medicinal plants and promotion of traditional healthcare. The project would support efforts at all levels to
share information with all key participants and beneficiaries as well as other donors through visits to
project sites and organization of exchanges and study tours, workshops, seminars, and farmers' field days.
The project would also hold regular briefings and would ensure consistency in objectives with other donors.
Field implementation of project interventions and activities would be led by subject matter
specialists including a biodiversity specialist from the collaborating public and private organizations.
NSBCP would be implemented on the ground by the pilot communities in close collaboration with regional
and district level government administrations (particularly regional and district FSD, WD, MOFA and
EPA offices, District Assemblies), civil society organizations (including women and youth groups), CBOs
and NGOs (e.g., traditional healer associations, social and environmental and NGOs such as
Suntaa-Nuntaa and Taimako Herbal Clinic). Implementation would also involve other agencies such as the
University of Development Studies and the Northern Regional office of FORIG for training and research,
MOFA for support in agro-biodiversity policy development, SARI for agro-biodiversity research, PGRC
for germplasm conservation and ex-situ protection and the EPA for land management, education and
public awareness raising.
The project would be located within SRMC in Tamale. The proposed institutional arrangements is
shown in the organogram below and further details are presented in the Project Implementation Manual.
- 14 -



INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
MLF
(NRM/PCC)
MOFA,
EA   MOH, FSD,      Otherns      MLGRID
WD, FC
SRM Steering
Committee
SR:MC
LEGEND:
MLF           Ministry of Lands & Forestry
NRMP          Natural Resources Management Program
EPA           Environmental Protection Agency
MLGRD         Ministry of Local Government & Rural Dev.
SRM           Savanna Resource Management
SRMC          Savanna Resource Management Centre
NSBCP         Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
TRE           Traditional Renewable Energy
Under the biodiversity conservation component, implementation of the pilot project land management
sub-component would be led by the Desertification Control Unit of the EPA based in Bolgatanga, with the
active collaboration of the Forest Services Division of the Forestry Commission and other relevant
Govermment and non-government organizations. Working in collaboration with NGOs, CBOs, resource
managers, community level groups and associations, EPA would also lead the implementation of activities
under the awareness raising and education sub-component. The WPAMCs, FMCs, District Environmental
Management Committees (DEMC) and Community Environmental Management Committees (CEMC),
among others, would play an active role in project implementation.
Funding Arrangements. GEF funding would be channeled to the MLF as the executing agency for the
project. The PCU under MLF would be responsible for gathering information from all participating
- 15 -



agencies and would be responsible for generating the progress reports, financial management reports;
operating the Special Account; and undertaking all procurement for the project.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 12)
The objectives of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) are to develop an organized system for capturing
and disseminating information needed for tracking project performance against planned activities,
achievement of project outputs and objectives, and changes and trends in biodiversity status, utilization,
management and conservation. The M&E system would help to measure the impact of project
interventions.
Additionally, beneficiary and social assessment would be carried-out. Baseline studies would provide
benchmarks for evaluation. The system would allow an effective evaluation of: (a) the effectiveness of the
project's delivery mechanisms and procedures; (b) the impact of the field activities on the basis of stated
objectives, and input, output and impact indicators identified in the Project Design Summary (see Annex
1); and (c) the replication of the in-situ and ex-situ activities at a wider national scale.
The M&E system would be an integral part of savanna resource monitoring under SRMP and would also
be part of overall monitoring and evaluation of natural resource management under the NRMP and the
management information system currently being established at the Forestry Commission headquarters in
Accra. Data and information generated under NSBCP would be useful for the established National
Framework for Geospatial Informnation Management (NAFGIM) at EPA, which stores natural resource
and social databases.
M&E would be carried out at various levels (local, project, district, regional and national), and
implementation of M&E systems would involve various agencies and beneficiary communities. The
national or progran level monitoring and evaluation would be done at NRMP level by the PCU. M&E
implementation at the local, project and district levels would be carried out by staff on NSCBP and trained
personnel from the district assemblies and communities. An M&E unit at SRMC would supervise and
coordinate data collection, analyzes, storage, and diffusion and dissemination of information.
During appraisal of NSBCP, participating agencies and community members agreed on monitoring
indicators, which include a set derived from the "Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation for Biodiversity
Projects" published by the GEF in June 1998. NSBCP would formulate annual work plans, which would
indicate specific milestones and deliverables, and highlight lessons learned as implementation of the project
progresses. Feedback on monitoring and evaluation results would be provided to donors and other key
participants through quarterly and annual reports and to communities through workshops, field days, study
tours and meetings.
The progress towards project outcomes and achievement of project objectives would be evaluated during
project supervision and again during an in-depth review 12 months after the project becomes effective. This
would further be followed by a mid-term review at the 36-month stage of implementation. The in-depth
review after 12 months would determine the extent to which the project is perfonrning vis-a-vis its
implementation plan and achievement of outputs and how these relate to the NRMP development
objectives. This review would also seek to identify how the components and outputs and objectives match
those that would be developed for successive phase of NRMP II. The mid-term review would determine the
status of the project and the achievements of objectives by the completion date (72 months of
implementation). An Implementation Completion Report would be prepared at least six months prior to
final disbursement of the Grant. The Government would prepare its own evaluation and contribution to the
project's completion report.
- 16 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Management of biodiversity in the arid and semi-arid savanna ecosystem has not been adequately
covered by NRMP I. NSBCP is designed to define a clear path for targeted biodiversity management of
the savanna zone. The emphasis in NSBCP is placed on a broader based operation which would focus on
the sustainable management of northern savanna resources while reducing poverty and combating land
degradation. Whereas NRMP I is developing overall strategy for collaborative natural resources
management at local and national levels, there is a need to systematically define and develop specific action
programs to enhance global benefits by conserving savanna resources and combating desertification. This
project defines and develops concrete steps that would be undertaken in order to achieve the global benefits
of biodiversity and natural resource management in the savanna areas of northem Ghana. The development
of NRMP II and III would link with this project and address activities that have local and national benefits.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Sustainable forest management     Forest Biodiversity Project       S             S
Environmental management capacity  Environmental Resource           S             S
building                          Management Project
Coastal wetlands conservation     Coastal Wetlands                  U             S
Management Project
Natural resources management      Natural Resources                 S             S
Management Project I
Sustainability of inland and marine  Fisheries Subsector Capacity   S             S
fisheries resources               Building Project
Financial and technical resources to  Village Infrastructure Project  U           S
sustain village infrastructure
Land tenure management            Land Administration Project
Community Water and Sanitation                                      S             S
Second Community Water and
Sanitation Project
Other development agencies
Preservation of sacred groves and  Environmental Protection
related cultural heritage         Agency (UNESCO/MAB)
Management of sacred groves       Community Integrated Project
- 17 -



for the Savanna Ecosystems
of Ghana (CIPSEG), funding
UNESCO
Transition forest and savanna     Forest Protection and
woodland protection and          Resource Use Management
management                       Project for the Volta Region
(Germany/GTZ)
Conservation of medicinal plant   Taimako Herbal
species                           Clinic/Medicinal Plant Species
Nursery (UNDP)
People, Land management and       People, Land Management
Environment Change (PLEC)        and Environmental Change
(PLEC) (UNEP/GEF)
Productivity of root and tuber crops  Ghana Roots and Tuber
Improvement Program
(IFAD)
Environmental restoration and     Environmental Restoration
wasteland degradation             Project (ICOURIUNDP)
(1998)
Plant diversity in high forest zone  Forestry Inventory and
Management Project (ODA)
(1990)
Community wildlife management
The Kajore Wildlife
Management Project
(UNDP/GEF Small Grants
Program
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
*   Problems of overlapping mandates of various national agencies and the critical role of biodiversity in
the health and well-being of rural communities has been addressed in this project by streamlining
implementation, i.e., concentrating support on key agencies and communities involved directly in
management of the savannas. Specific program focus is also allocated to cultural sites, medicinal
plants and agrobiodiversity.
*   The positive lessons of a collaborative approach with local communities, which recognizes right of
access and use and seeks economic growth compatible with maintaining global and national
conservation values, and methods for successful education and public awareness campaigns have been
integrated into the project's components. The Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Development
component focuses on establishing gene banks and germplasm conservation for medicinal plants and
indigenous crop varieties.
*   To achieve sustainable natural resource management in the savanna zone, people need to understand
- 18 -



the practical importance of biodiversity conservation and see it working in their local context. This
project would develop such awareness and understanding through two inter-linked activities: (a) the
development and implementation of a general biodiversity conservation education and awareness
program including the multiple and practical uses of the diverse natural resources of the region, and (b)
codification and dissemination of best management practices for land degradation control and
rehabilitation, wildlife management (anti-poaching), woodlot establishment and development,
agroforestry, bush fire prevention and control.
*   The project would build on and link up with the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP) and the Second
Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP II) by enhancing the role of communities to develop,
implement, manage and maintain natural resource projects directly related to their socio-economic
needs. IDA Credit.
*   The NSBCP would support the identification of sustainable cultivation methods for medicinal plant
species as a component of Ghanaian savanna agriculture, an element not identified in the Agricultural
Services Subsector Investment Program (AgSSIP).
*   The NSBCP would support the role that traditional healers play in providing basic healthcare in Ghana
and, therefore, contribute to poverty reduction. Past health projects have overlooked this area and
focused mainly on modem health interventions.
*   Indigenous crop diversity is being rapidly eroded. Such crop varieties (cereals, legumes and
roots/tubers) are an important source of meeting farners' socio-economic needs and food security in all
parts of Ghana, mostly in years of drought. The project would focus on reversing this loss of important
agricultural germplasm and indigenous knowledge by collaborating with farmers to enhance the
re-establishment of farmer varieties. The PGRC would play an important role in achieving the
objectives of this component.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Ghana has ratified the conventions most relevant to the proposed project: Biodiversity (CBD:
8/29/94), Climate Change (FCCC: 9/6/95), and Desertification (CCD: 12/27/96). By financing the
incremental costs of improved drylands resources husbandry and broadening participation of the primary
stakeholders, GEF financing has the potential for protecting globally significant biodiversity, enhancing
sustainable resource use, and alleviating poverty among the primary stakeholders. The project is consistent
with GEF Operational Strategies that address the twin issues of biodiversity conservation in arid and
semi-arid zone ecosystems and combating land degradation. The project focuses on local communities as
managers and beneficiaries of better and sustainable use of natural resources in the savannas and promotes
economic livelihood activities through enhanced use of traditional and indigenous knowledge, medicinal
plant species and their products.
The adoption in 1994 of a new Forest and Wildlife Policy and subsequent (1996) preparation of a
Forestry Development Master Plan provide a good foundation for implementing this project. The Master
Plan includes strategies for forest and wildlife protection and increasing local communities involvement in
forest, savanna woodland and wildlife management. Goverrment commitment to implementation of
biodiversity conservation plans include the preparation of a Protected Areas Systems Plan under an
IDA-financed Forestry Project (1990) and inclusion of biodiversity protection and maintenance of
bioquality as key elements of the sector development master plan. A Traditional Medicine Practices Act
was promulgated in February 2000. The Act recognizes the enormous role and potential that traditional
- 19-



medicines offer in primary healthcare, especially for poor rural and urban communities.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
Although the development obiectives of NRMP I include many aspects of conservation measures to
manage and protect land, forest and wildlife resources, arid and semi-arid savanna ecosystem has not been
adequately covered by the project. The value added for the NSBCP is to define targeted management of
biodiversity of the savanna zone. Whereas NRMP I is developing overall strategy for global, national and
local level biodiversity management and conservation for the high forest, NSBCP would define and develop
specific action programs (see Annex 2 for details) to enhance global benefits (in addition to national and
local benefits) by sustainably utilizing and conserving savanna biological resources and combating land
degradation and desertification. This project defines and develops concrete steps to complete efforts
towards reaching global, national, and local benefits of natural resource management over the entire
country.
Other donor agencies including the Royal Danish Govemment through DANIDA (traditional
energy resources), World Food Program (WFP) (support to communities for sustainable agricultural
development and natural resources management), The Royal Netherlands Government (Mole National Park
rehabilitation, Transition Zone Fire management), UNDP/GEF Small Grant Programs (in savanna resource
management) and a number of NGOs (e.g., Amasachina, Suntaa-Nuntaa, Institute of Cultural Affairs,
Ecological Restoration, Ghana Wildlife Society,Nature Conservation Research Center and Conservation
Intemational), have expressed their interest in the NSBCP's objectives and their support for the SRMC.
Their involvement would enhance the prospects of better bioquality maintenance and management of land
degradation if donor efforts are well-coordinated.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Biodiversity conservation does not lend itself to economic analysis since no monetary value has
been placed on species and/or ecosystems. However, an analysis was undertaken on incremental costs, i.e.,
of the additional costs accruing to Ghana for protecting its invaluable savanna biodiversity resources (see
Annex 4).
There are no quantitative data available on medicinal plant supply and consumer demand at
present, nor on the economic benefits and contribution to healthcare in Ghana which is derived from the use
of such plants. A socio-economic survey which will be conducted under the project will help to fill these
data gaps. The project scope to conserve and manage medicinal plants yields global and national benefits.
The project would offer opportunities for additional sources of income through the cultivation of
high-demand medicinal plants. This in turn provides opportunities to increase agricultural intensification
through crop diversification and remove the pressures on wild resource lands.
Regarding agro-biodiversity, a farm model study (see Annex 4) indicated that farmers in the
Northem Savanna zone of Ghana would be better off if they practiced agro-bioderversity approaches
- 20 -



suggested by the project. The current farming practices in and around the reserves in the project area of the
three northern regions of Ghana have, over the years, tended to degrade the environment and adversely
affect biodiversity conservation. Under the NSBCP, farmers would be encouraged and assisted to practice
intensive farming on the same land using improved cultural practices of appropriate cropping patterns,
incorporating legumes, and adopting composting and organic manuring for improving soil fertility instead
of chemical fertilizers as well as integrated pest management (IPM) strategies.
Farmers would also be encouraged to adopt agro-forestry practices whereby they would inter crop
their fields with economic tree crops (e.g., mangoes and cashews), woodfuel and pole-producing tree
species to increase farm incomes and at the same time improve the species' richness and biodiversity
conservation.
To illustrate the incremental financial benefits likely to accrue to the fanner by the adoption of the
project concept of biodiversity conservation, two farm models have been developed to compare their
financial situation and the effects of their farming activities on biodiversity conservation based on two
scenarios: (i) the "do-nothing-situation" where farmers continue with their present cropping systems
without any intervention; and (ii) the "do-something-situation" where farmers adopt environmentally
friendly and biodiversity conservation practices such as tree crop-agricultural crop mixed farming systems.
The analysis (see Annex 4) shows that the incremental financial benefits likely to accrue to
farmers using conservation practices is positive. Two models were used in the analysis, a model with
mango inter-cropping and a model with inter-cropping with cashew as against the existing practice. With
respect to the model with mango, the Net Present Value is Cedis 1.57 million and an Internal Rate of
Return of 93 percent, while the model with cashew registered Cedis 80,000 and 52 percent respectively,
indicating that the project is financially beneficial to farmers. The cost of capital used in the discounted
cash flow computation is 45 percent.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Given the capacity building and community-based character of this project, a standard financial
analysis is not readily possible. The project does not include commercial production of phytomedicines,
bush meats and other non-timber forest products, therefore, the likely fiscal impact in the short run would
be insignificant. However, those sub-components of the project that support parks, e.g., Mole National
Park, that have tourism as an activity may realize increased revenue in the short-term.
As the project encourages the sustainable use of resources in the long-nin, the financial benefits to
individual households and communities would be apparent as the project evolves and widespread
sustainable use practices are adopted.
[n.a.] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= million;
ERR= n.a. [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[x] Incremental Cost (See Annex SA):
Fiscal Impact:
The incremental costs are projected to be US$7.60 million including price and physical
contingencies. Under baseline conditions, the Govermment of Ghana's (GoG) expenditure on conservation
and management of savanna biodiversity resources including medicinal plants contribute a small percentage
- 21 -



of the total budgetary allocation for the environment. The project scope, to conserve savanna biodiversity
yields national and global benefits. The global benefits would include the conservation and management of
unique flora and fauna including the sustainable use of medicinal plants.
3. Technical:
The project would upgrade the technical capacity of the participating institutions to facilitate
appropriate analytical requirements, technology generation and transfer, and training. The main technical
contributions of this project would be: (i) establishment of biodiversity/medicinal plant/farmer crop variety
inventory and a national database and GIS-based management information system; (ii) identification of
threatened medicinal plants and other plant species as well as wildlife species; and (iii) establishment of
management and sustainable harvesting guidelines for medicinal plants and community-demand products in
protected areas.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:     Ministry of Lands and Forestry
b. Project management:     Ministry of Lands and Forestry
4.1 Executing agencies:
Until recently, central government asserted that protected areas are of national interest and that the
best institution to better and effectively control the land for that national interest was the government rather
than the local authority or communities. In the past, after taking over these lands central government
proclaimed to be the so-called "in-trust" holder of these lands for the people, but stubbornly overlooking
their rights or needs. Such situations, among others, have resulted in the common problems of poaching
and encroachment, which have accompanied resource management and development in the country. Current
GoG policy direction and institutional reforms are geared towards enhancing community participation in
the conservation and management of natural resources and biodiversity. This paradigm shift and shedding
of the "siege mentality" (i.e., the fear by resource managers that they are surrounded by a sea of hostile
local interests) would need to be precipitated down to all levels in the policy-making processes and levels
of administrative hierarchies. In this context, the Govemment would have to adopt a more effective means
of ensuring that conservation and local peoples work together as partners rather than antagonists.
Although GoG has made substantive progress in mainstreaming environmental considerations into
its national development agenda, it is yet to fully consider conservation of the nation's biological diversity
as integral to maintaining the nation's wealth. Even when credit is given to Government of Ghana for
formulating and implementing a number of sector-wide institutional and policy reforms that give some
value to the conservation and development of living natural resources in its development agenda, there are
areas that still need more attention and decisive action. Specific issues needing urgent action would relate
to: (i) how various institutions collaborate and share infonnation; (ii) inconsistencies of sectoral legislation
and therefore the need for their review and harmonization; (iii) formulation of a national niral development
strategy; (iv) restoration of traditional rights of access (use and allocation of resources, assets) to the
rightful owners; (v) modalities for sharing benefits accruing from natural resource and biodiversity
management and conservation; (vi) utilisation and protection of indigenous knowledge; (vii) patenting and
intellectual property rights, bio-prospecting and biosafety; (viii) civil society empowerment and
participation, and formulation of effective incentives to accelerate integrated development. NSBCP would
support Government of Ghana to initiate effective processes of tackling these issues. An immediate
challenge would be the support from NSBCP to the Government of Ghana to review and finalize the draft
National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan by further suggesting actions and solutions for addressing
- 22 -



special needs of the northern savanna zone (e.g. land degradation, desertification) and incorporating issues
such as those mentioned above in this paragraph. The project would support the final adoption, publication
and dissemination of the strategy and action plan.
4.2 Project management:
The NSBCP is closely linked to NRMP I through SRMP and as such, the management structure
would be part and parcel of the SRMC management. A project cooordinator would be hired and located at
Tamale to coordinate project implementation. NSBCP would link up functionally with the high forest
biodiversity component of NRMP I. SRMC is a multi-disciplinary agency established under NRMP I with
staff seconded from various Ministries/Departments/Agencies (MDAs) including Ministry of Environment,
Science & Technology (MEST/EPA), MOFA, MOE and MLGRD. The multi-disciplinary nature of the
staff of SRMC would benefit the NSBCP coordinator in the implementation of project activities, which cut
across all the agencies mentioned above. During pre-appraisal and appraisal of the project the existing
SRMC administration and coordination arrangement was found to be sufficient to support implementation
of activities under NSBCP, which would be integrated as a sub-component into SRMP. The NSBCP
coordinator would be a member of the existing sub-committee established under SRMP.
There are a number of organizations whose mandates and responsibilities relate to the conservation
and sustainable management of biodiversity and biological resources, but whose human and financial
capacities are insufficient to fully address biodiversity conservation and management in the northern
savanna zone of Ghana. Lack of coordination among various institutions in designing and implementing
programs toward biodiversity conservation is an impediment. In implementing NSBCP, the coordinator
would work closely with the Traditional Energy Unit (TEU) of SRMC, public and private organizations,
and research and academia such as University of Development Studies (UDS), Kwame Nkrumah
University of Science and Technology (KNUST), University of Ghana, Animal Research Institute (ARI),
Savanna Agricultural Research Institute (SARI), and the Traditional and Alternative Medicines Directorate
(TAMD). In the early stages of implementation NSBCP would assess the need to establish a Savanna
Biodiversity Consultative Group and establish one if found feasible and worthy. Such a body would have
representation (with appropriate and acceptable gender representation) from relevant government agencies,
private sector institutions, NGOs and CBOs, local goverment authorities, traditional authorities and
community leaders.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Staff of the Project Coordinating Unit of the MLF who will be responsible for procurement, are
familiar with IDA procurement and consultants selection guidelines and procedures. However,as a step
towards mainstreaming the procurement function, core ministry staff should be identified for procurement
training to manage procurement. All works and goods would be procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Where National Competitive Bidding (NCB) method will be used, IDA will clear the initial
bidding documents as part of the Operational Plan.
A Project Implementation Manual (PIP) containing the Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) for the
first two years will determine all procurement activities under the project. The plans will be agreed with
IDA. Up-dated versions of the Global Procurement Plan (GPP) and the DPP will be submitted to IDA three
months prior to the start of each subsequent fiscal year. Each quarter, a procurement monitoring report will
be submitted to IDA as part of the Project Management Report (PMR).
When communities are able to organise themselves into formal/legal entities, the PIP would be
- 23 -



modified to describe activities for enabling community participation and training would be provided them in
simplified procurement required during the operation and maintenance phase.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management issues are addressed in detail in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental analysis (EA) was conducted by an interdisciplinaiy team of consultants
between January and March 2001. The consultants visited sample reserves and non-reserve areas as well
as a sampling of communities adjacent to these areas for purposes of collecting primary data and knowing
the extent of community knowledge and interest in the project. Baseline information for the EA was
gathered from a comprehensive review of reports on studies commissioned for NRMP, SRMP, and NSBCP
or existing in other organizations. The EA report includes an Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP) which outlines the necessary mitigation measures as well as the institutional arrangements for
implementation and monitoring, and cost estimates for the mitigation measures. The EA report makes the
following conclusions with regard to environmental and social impacts:
Impacts on the physical environment:  Since the proposed project will support only the
construction/rehabilitation of small-scale infrastructure such as ranger field stations, observation posts, and
limited rehabilitation work of SRMC's office facilities in Tamale, impacts on the physical environment are
expected to be limited. The EA report outlines measures designed to reduce the effects of dust and noise
during construction/rehabilitation work. Any community requests for large-scale infrastructure such as
roads, water supply and sanitation, health clinics will be provided through ongoing operations and will be
subject to their environmental requirements (Village Infrastructure Project, Second Community Water and
Sanitation Project).  Furthermore, the ESMP of the proposed project provides US$25,000 for
environmental impact assessments of large-scale infrastructure as required. The establishment of faunal
corridors is not expected to have any adverse impacts on the physical environment in the project area.
Impacts on the ecological and biological environment: Although it is not expected that there will
be a resurgence of pests or increased use of pesticides as a result of the reintroduction of crop varieties, the
ESIA recommends training in IPM to ensure that potential pest recurrences can be addressed appropriately,
if necessary. The ESMP provides US$100,000 for training in IPM and best farming practices for farmers
in pilot areas. The provision of small-scale infrastructure (ranger field stations, observation posts,
SRMC's office rehabilitation) and the creation of faunal corridors are not expected to have negative
impacts on the environment. However, the ESIA notes that the transboundary movement of wild animals in
the faunal corridors may result in the transmission of animal diseases which may affect the animal
population negatively. The ESMP includes US$150,000 for the surveillance of wild animals movements.
Impacts on the socio-economic environment: The ESIA notes that the project does not intend to
acquire land or to limit access to sources of income for the population. However, in the event that loss of
income or livelihood occurs due to project activities, it is proposed that a social assessment be conducted at
that point in time through the use of a Social Assessment Framework.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Capacity building and awareness raising at various levels, the implementation of programs for
maintaining traditional rights of access to resources and income and rural livelihood as well as the
- 24 -



provision of alternative livelihood support systems are the main feature of the ESMP. For example,
provisions will be made for (i) public education and awareness raising on appropriate land management
practices and cultivation of crop and medicinal plants; (ii) short term refresher courses (i.e., in bullock
ploughing, fire management) for staff from the Wildlife Department and the Forest Services Division of the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, (iii) IPM training for farmers in pilot areas, (iv) training for Veterinary
Services staff in wild animal surveilalance and disease treatment, (v) training for an Environmental
Specialist to monitor the implementation of the ESMP, (vi) developing programns to address social
safeguard issues such as possible loss of access to resources, income and livelihood, and (vii) developing
programs for the creation of alternative livelihood and income-generating systems. These measures
complement project activities such as the management of integrated pest management (IPM) or support for
appropriate land management management and for the protection of farmers' crops and properties from
moving animals in the faunal corridors.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Sent to ASPEN for clearance in August
2001
The first draft ESIA was submitted to MLF in January 2001 and reviewed in-country by various
constituencies, which included public and private sector institutions including the Ghana Environmental
Protection Agency and externally by peer reviewers as well as ASPEN within the Bank. The consultants
incorporated comments and resubmitted the upgraded draft to MLF and the Bank. The second draft, which
was cleared by ASPEN on March 10, 2001 was received at the Bank's InfoShop on March 12, 2001
(Report Number Assigned: E-445) and disclosed publicly in-country during a workshop in Tamale on
March 17, 2001. A team comprising Bank and GOG staff and consultants was in the field from March
12-30, 2001 to appraise the project. Comments made at appraisal and those received from ASPEN and
other reviewers were incorporated and a final ESIA document submitted in August 2001 to ASPEN for
approval. ASPEN cleared the final document on October 19, 2001 and the March 10 draft was replaced at
the Bank's InfoShop on October 22, 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
In view of the direct effect that the project would have on the communities and villages within the
pilot areas, a sample of these communities was visited. The consultants visited the pilot areas to gather
supplementary data by interacting with govemment officials, district assembly members, NGOs, opinion
leaders, chiefs and a cross-section of people, especially women and the youth in the communities.
Communities that were visited live in or on the fringes (5km- 10 km) of existing protected areas such as the
Gbele Resource Reserve, Mole National Park, Keni-Keni Forest Reserve, Tankwidi West and Tankwidi
East Forest Reserves, Sisili Central Forest Reserve, White and Red Volta River Forest Reserves etc. In the
field, the consultants used interviews and the administration of questionnaires to gather data and
information. The substance of the questionnaire focused on general socio-economic conditions in the
communities, and how communities perceived environmental and social issues and problems relating to the
project as a whole and specifically to the proposed establishment of wildlife corridors and the creation of
community-dedicated reserves, re-introduction of farmer crop varieties, cultivation of medicinal plants, and
enhancement of agro-biodiversity.
Staff of the MLF, WD, FSD of MOFA, EPA, and a number of traditional healers in the three
regions participated actively in the preparation of the ESIA. The process has been very participatory and
consultative. A submission of the initial draft of the ESIA to Ministries, Departments, and Agencies,
SRMC, Industry, NGOs, civil society and communities was made in January 2001. The ESIA has been
- 25 -



disclosed publicly during a workshop held in Tamale on March 17, 2001. It was presented before a broad
audience in an effort to consolidate people's views and to incorporate their comments and concerns into the
final document. The workshop was conducted in four local languages.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
For the purposes of monitoring, collection, collation, storage and dissemination of data and
information during the implementation of the mitigation actions, the SRMC Monitoring and Management
Information System Unit would be used. Monitoring would be carried out in accordance with a manual or
system prepared under the NSBCP. Impacts of the project on the environment and social set up would be
done using systems that would be developed under the project. A write up on Monitoring and Evaluation is
presented in Annex 12.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The major social issues for the project are the following:
(a)    Existing incentives and commissions (from park visitations), provided by GOG to traditional
authorities and communities for community involvement in the implementation of natural and
biodiversity resources management activities and programs, are not sufficient to solicit support and
involvement of communities in resource management. The project would consider and explore for
adoption, where possible, the principles and experiences from other initiatives such as CAMPFIRE
in Zimbabwe and the Namibian Black Rhino and Desert Elephant Conservation Project. NSBCP
would provide support for off-farm opportunities to communities and groups and other forms of
assistance to TAMD and regional THAs. The project would define actions to reach out to public
and private organisations, civil society, the rural and disadvantaged poor about the value of
biodiversity including medicinal plant species and the need to encourage their sustainable use and
conservation.
(b)    A number of forest and wildlife reserves (for example, Mole National Park, Kenikeni Forest
Reserve in the Northern Region, Gbele Resource Reserve and Naaha Community Forest Reserve in
the Upper West Region, the Red and White Volta Forest Reserves in the Upper East Region) are
surrounded by farmiing and communities involved in animal husbandry, whose livelihood depend,
to a large extent, on the resources in the reserves. These communities tend to encroach/excise
portions of the reserves for crop farming and grazing. Consequently, under the project, a system of
reserve management, which includes the involvement of the fringe commnunities, will establish a
system of conflict resolution arrangement. In addition, frameworks would be identified and
implemented that allow reserve access by the rightful owners of the resource and other
stakeholders.
(c)    As a specific example of (b) above, the existing Wildlife Division scheme to resettle the people of
Gbele Community outside the Gbele Resource Reserve was not acceptable to the project. During
appraisal, an agreement was reached with the Govenmuent that the community would not be
subject to resettlement. Based on this agreement the Gbele Resource Reserve and the community
around it are considered as pilot areas for the project. However, the project is clear that
expanding land needs of the Gbele village inside the Reserve would not be met at the expense of the
Reserve.
- 26 -



(d)    The security of community rights over natural resources, while securing biodiversity in the area,
has become a debatable issue, not only in the northern savanna zone, but also all over the country.
Project assistance would be provided to ensure that biodiversity management systems developed
are responsive to the local communities needs and interests. Efforts would also be made to ensure
that community collaboration and participation in biodiversity conservation is not purely a money
saving activity by the project.
Gender (Annex 12)
Social analysis of gender issues in the utilization, conservation and management of natural
resources shed light on the differences in terms of authority structures, status in the community, access to
land, resources, benefits, income, training and education in the construction, control and management of the
environment. To bridge gender disparity and to alleviate women's vulnerabilities in natural resource
utilization and management, the project would: (i) ensure that information relating to project activities
reach both men and women, as well as preparing women to effectively participate in the resource
management process; (ii) target women in the communities, as well as existing women's organisations, for
education and awareness on biodiversity and medicinal plant conservation and safe use; (iii) promote
alternative sources of energy and efficient use of fuel wood; (iv) support women to conserve existing
medicinal plants through cultivation; and (v) promote mechanisms for the active and full participation of
women, especially traditional healers and TBAs in the THAs.
Although registered traditional healers are overwhelmingly males in the three regions, health
management within families is undertaken by women. Reproductive health is the responsibility of TBAs
who delivery the majority of babies in rural communities. Because of their role in pre and post-natal
activities the TBAs are under increasing exposure to HIV/AIDS infection, and if infected virus
transmission. Training in the prevention of HIV and care and treatment of AIDS patients and the need for
reproductive training and refresher courses are recognized as priority needs by regional directors of health.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups include: farmers/community groups, academic
institutions, Government (local and national), traditional healers, women's groups, local NGOs (e.g., Aid
for Development (AFORD), Gub-Katimali, Amasachina, Partners in participatory Development
(PAPADEV), Tiyumba Integrated Development Association (TIDA), Katchito Community Development
Center (KCODEC), Bimoba Literacy Farmers Co-operative Union (BILFACU), Presby Mile 7
Agricultural Station, Catholic Relief Services, Adventist Development Relief Agency, Ghana-Danish
Community Project, Village Aid, Tamale Arch Diocesan Agricultural Project (TAAP), Tamaiko Herbal
Clinic, Upper East Woman's Group, Suntaa-Nuntaa, 31st December Women's Movement), and other donor
agencies operating in the project area. These beneficiaries and groups have been fully involved in a
participatory manner in design, preparation and appraisal of this project. Furthermore, their involvement in
the implementation would be central to fulfilling the objectives of this project. Through the Savanna
Resource Management Center and its multi-agency setup, community participation is direct and the role of
local govenument is guaranteed. Information sharing among all stakeholders has been and would continue
to be key in project design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
Participatory rural appraisals would be part of the project's management planning process in order
to ensure that local communities concerns are addressed effectively. The management plan would need the
endorsement of the communities in the area. Therefore, from the outset, the project has been and would
continue to be characterized by a strong participatory approach. It builds on lessons learned in community
- 27 -



participation and management in the GEF-financed Coastal Wetlands Management Project and in the
community consultation approach used in GEF-sponsored coastal zone management sector work in Ghana.
Investments in alternative livelihoods (targeting women, the poorest, etc) to compensate for forgone
short-term revenues due to adoption of a more controlled management regime for high-priority savanna
biodiversity conservation sites would be channeled through community-based mechanisms to finance
environmentally sound and sustainable activities. IPRs would be protected under this project. There would
be no resettlement undertaken in this project. EPA would be involved in the production public education
materials (such as instruction videos) for communities involved. Under this project the Center for Scientific
Research into Plant Medicine at Mampong-Akuapem, the Noguchi Memorial Institute and the School of
Pharmacy, University of Science and Technology, Kumasi, would continue to assist in identifying the
safety and efficacy of traditional herbal medicines. The Traditional Medicine Program, World Health
Organization (WHO) has linked with AFTR2 to identify traditional herbal medicines used in the treatment
of malaria under the Roll Back Malaria Program and opportunistic diseases associated with HIV/AIDS in
Ghana, Benin and Nigeria The medicinal plant components of NSBC Project would link with and exploit
synergies with these other activities in order to ensure sustained impacts of interventions.
Stakeholders and Beneficiaries  Preparation    Implementation         Operation
Communities                         CON              COL               CON/COL
THs and TBAs                        CON              COL               CON/COL
THAs                                CON              COL               CON/COL
Intermediary NGOs                   CON              COL               CON/COL
Academic Institutions               CON                                CON/COL
Local government                  CON/COL            COL                 COL
Other donors                    IS/CON/COL           COL              IS/CON/COL
Note: CON: consultation, COL: collaboration, IS: infonnation sharing
- 28 -



Other key stakeholders
Project preparation included a number of pilots to involve park officials, communities and
specifically targeted stakeholders, (THs, TBAs, farmers, rural women) in harvesting and management of
non-timber forest products, medicinal plant species survey, farner crop variety demand and availability,
fire control and other revenue generating enterprises. These were initiated and carried out using funds from
a GEF PDF -- Block B Grant. Lessons learned and experienced gained would be put in practice by the
Project Coordinator through the SRMC.
6.3 ilow does tile project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations'?
The project recognizes the skills of NGOs and other civil society actors (including women and
youth groups) and fully intends to utilize them to elicit the active participation of beneficiary communities
living in or on the fringes of the reserves and parks. Being mostly local and close to the cormmunities,
through animation and participatory techniques, they bring to the project their knowledge of the terrain and
skills they have specialized in to sensitize communities about development objectives. There are a good
number of civil society actors in the three northern regions with the requisite indigenous and professional
experiences needed to support and carry out the implementation of project interventions.
The project has adopted a participatory and collaborative approach to achieve its objective of
developing and implementing comprehensive strategies for managing and conserving savanna biodiversity.
Many local NGOs and CBOs, particularly development and environmental NGOs, as well as traditional
authorities (e.g., skins and earth priests/priestesses) and traditional healers have been involved from the
beginning in project design, preparation and appraisal and their involvement in implementation is seen as
crucial to achieving the overall goal of the project. Through community animation methods, NGOs/CBOs
are expected to play a key role in creating and raising awareness about the link between sustainable use and
conserving the resources of the reserves and parks and the sustainability of community livelihood. They
would also assist project managers in developing awareness enhancing strategies such as community
theaters, media messages and programs, and gender mainstreaming.  Community participation in
conservation and management to promote community ownership of various management practices will be
fostered by the project with the active participation of NGOs, especially CBOs. The project recognizes
that all actions that concern communities such as the establishment and management of the two faunal
corridors described in Annex 2 will require the assistance of NGOs/CBOs who will mobilize and sustain
cornmunity support and active participation. Furthermore, decision making on and implementation of
reserve and park management and development activities would be done with all key stakeholders including
NGOs as equal partners.
6.4 Wh'hat institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
NSBCP has identified social development goals such as gender equity and access, empowerment
and participation, poverty reduction, environmental protection, capacity building, improvement of
live!ihood, human health and income levels, alternative income-generation among others and set itself the
task of ensuring that these are adequately addressed.
Institutional arrangements include the Savanna Resource Management Center and its multi-agent
set-up to ensure that community participation is direct, the inclusion of primary beneficiaries and other
stakeholders such as farmers' groups, academic and research institutions, relevant MDAs such as the
Forestry and W'ildlife Divisions of the Forestry Commission, local government agencies, and local NGOs
and C'BOs as well as traditional healers, traditional authorities, traditional birth attendants and opinion
- 29 -



leaders. The project will be supported with funds from two ongoing Bank-funded projects namely the VIP
and CSWP-2 to provide participating (pilot) communities with small-scale rural infrastructure investments
such as schools, market places, boreholes, mechanized wells, health posts and clinics, etc.. NSBCP is
organically and functionally linked to the ongoing Bank-supported SRMP and the DANIDA-funded
Traditional Renewable Project. During implementation NSBCP will continue to explore and deepen
linkages to other domestic and externally-funded ongoing and new projects.
Technical support would be provided by a number of public, private and civil society
organizations. In many cases, emphasis has been placed on the involvement of communities,
community-based organizations and NGOs and specifically targeted stakeholders such as TBAs, THs,
traditional rulers and opinion leaders as well as local government authorities. At the project level (i.e.,
implementation level in the communities) the establishment of resource management committees at the local
level (e.g., WPAMC, FMC, DEMC, etc.) would ensure that social development issues would be
highlighted and monitored, and interventions toward achievement of social development outcomes are
strictly carried out.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
To track social indicators, NSBCP would make use of beneficiary and social assessments. Social
impact assessments would measure the impact of field activities on the basis of stated activities.
Monitoring and evaluation would be carried out with the involvement of beneficiary communities working
in close collaboration with various agencies, both governmental and non-governmental. Participating
agencies and communities would agree on monitoring indicators. The SRMC will monitor and ensure the
satisfactory implementation of the Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan described in Annex 13 of the
PAD.
At the local level, community members would be selected from the forest management committees
and wildlife protected area management committees as enumerators. Data would be collected with the help
of structured surveys, interviews, participatory rapid appraisal, rural rapid appraisal and direct
observations.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Detailed costed Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan has been developed and the project has
earmarkced US$383,000 for the implementation of the Plan (See Annex 13). Implementation of the ESMP
will be monitored by SRMC and evaluated during the biannual project supervision missions and project
- 30 -



completion evaluations carried out jointly or separately by donors and the Government of Ghana.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabiity:
Government's commitment in terms of sustaining policy reforms as well as staff and funding of
project initiatives after the project ends is crucial. Success in developing community-based project design
and implementation is necessary if there is to be enduring project ownership by the beneficiaries. Using
clearly defined benchmarks, the project seeks to enhance sustainable community use and management of
savanna resources while ensuring that globally significant biodiversity resources are protected. This
enhanced protection of biodiversity would need to be based on negotiated agreements with the local
communities that demonstrate locally verifiable benefits in the form of altemative livelihood system. The
success of the project in encouraging reforestation and rehabilitation of degraded savanna areas is crucial
to the sustainability of the envisioned biodiversity conservation measures. Hence, Govemment's
conmmitment to improving community knowledge and field capacity for effective stewardship of
biodiversity resources through integrated land management strategies would ultimately deternine the
sustainability of conservation achievements.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex l):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of institutional capacity and         M         Funds would be provided to strengthen
collaboration among existing institutions            capacity of collaborating institutions
for biodiversity conservation,
management and utilization
From Components to Outputs
Delays in the development of project       N         Recruitment of a project coordinator with
implementation and management                        adequate staff and authority
capacity
Lack of motivation and collaboration of    M         Local community outreach and training
local communities, particularly                      included in project activities secure their active
traditional                                           collaboration
healers, to develop and adopt sustainable
management practices
Delayed collaboration between              N         Resources provided to facilitate collaboration
participating ministries (MLFM, MOH,
MOFA)
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 31 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Project Implementation Manual including a Project Implementation Plan would be completed and
approved by the Bank.
*   Project Coordinator with qualifications acceptable to the Bank appointed prior to effectiveness.
*   Recruitment of independent auditors with qualifications acceptable to the Bank appointed prior to
effectiveness.
*   An annual work program including procurement schedules for the first year of implementation
acceptable to the Bank prepared.
*   An adequate financial management and accounting system, acceptable to the Bank established.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   As a condition of negotiations, the recipient should submit to the Bank a letter of sector policy toward
ensuring that forest and wildlife management, including biodiversity utilization would be done on a
sustainable basis.
*   The Recipient shall ensure that the people living inside the Gbele Resource Reserve as of the 2000
National Population Census shall be permitted to continue to live in the reserve and shall be eligible
for benefits under the Project.
*   The Recipient shall:
(a)   not later than October 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank for review and comments a draft
annual work program and supporting budget for the succeeding calendar year;
(b)   not later than November 30 in each year (i) review with the Bank the documents referred to in
paragraph (a) above; (ii) identify implementation issues and propose appropriate solutions; and
(iii) update Project timetables and performance indicators;
(c)   not later than December 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank for its comments and final
approval the work program and budget referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, as such program and
budget shall have been revised to the satisfaction of the Bank in the course of the review
referred to in paragraph (b) hereof and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, carry out the
Project in the year in question on the basis of the said work program and budget as so revised.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
ZK 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-32 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
EB  ard elix Dwumfour             Joseph Baah'-Dwomoh               Peter Harrold
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Manager/Director
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GHANA: Northern Savanna Blodiversity Conservation Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS Goal:
Poverty alleviation through  Reduction in level of rural  GLSSr eports,ann ualUNDP  Improved biodiversity and
environmentally and socially  povertyi nt he Savannahzon e reports, povertypro files,  enhanced sustainablesocial
sustainable economic growth  based on project activities.  PRSPmo nitoring,M &E  and economicd evelopment
componento f the project  through improvement in
livelihoods andhe alth.
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Improvement in healthcare,  % improvement ofhealthcar e, GLSS reports, annualUND P  OtherBank-su pported
environmenta ndecon omic  environment and livelihood  reports, povertypro files,  programs that target reduction
livelihood of Northern    systemst hroughb iodiversity  PRSPmo nitoring,M &E   of povertyare successful
Savannahz one.            conservationand sustainab le  component of thep roject.
use ofres ources.         Govemmentpu blications.
GEF Operational Goal:
Assessment andmarked      Success inin-situ          MLFM/SRMP reports, Land
improvement of conservation  conservationa nd management usel andco verm appingby
of globally significant   of protected Savannah     NRMPGEF-P rojectP rogress
biodiversity in the northem  forestsand wildl ife areasas  Report
Savannahz one.            well as the surrounding
habitats.
GEF Operational Program:
Project Development
Objective:
Improve livelihood, health  Ane ffectiveb iodiversity  Policyd ocuments,Leg islative GOGco mmitmentto
anden vironmento f        conservation policy        Instruments               conservation, management
communities in the northern  framework (NBSAP)th at                            and sustainable utilization
savanna zone through      takesin to accountis sues                            remainss trong.
conservationand sustainab le  highlightedu nder paragraph
useofnat uralreso urces   41 nstitutional)of Chapte r E
including medicinalpl ants.  (Issues RequiringSpecial
Attention)of thePAD.
Increasedado ption of     Published reports andplans.  Locala uthoritiesa nd
improved plansan deffecti ve                         communitiescoo perate and
measures forb iodiversity                           support activities.
management and conservation
intheSav annaZon eby
communities.
Increasedawa renesso f    Baseline surveys,M& E
biodiversitymanag ement and reports.
conservationiss uesb yth e
public especiallyr ural
communities.
Increased acceptanceb y the  Baseline surveys,M& E
publices pecially farmersto  reports
maintain agro-biodiversity in
plant and crop genebanks.
-34-



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Global Objective:         Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Identify.   onitor.con ser Hectareso f savannap riority  Published reports,FSD and  Participatoryp rocessallo ws
keyc omponentso fg lobally  areasincludin gonandoff  WDannu al reports,NRMP    stakeholdersand GOG
significantbio diversityin the  reserves undereffec tive  progressr eports,L and  agencies to reachlong -term
northermsa vannaz one     management.               use/land cover maps.       agreement onob jectivesan d
througheco system                                                              strategies for Savannah
throughementconssterv n   # ofrege nerationo f      Publishedrepo rts, Project  resource management.
management, conservation  threatened, endemic andr are  quarterly and annual reports,
identifyingedentpicsp ecies  bioticsp ecies int hep riority  supervisionr eports, ICR
habitats for protection,  areas.
preservationof medicinal  #o fc ommunitiesef fectively  Baseline survey and project
plantsr esources and      involvedin propagationof  progressr eports.Pub lished
knowledge, and maintaining  importantindigeno uscr ops  reports,Pr ojectqu arterly and
cultivation of farm crops.  and medicinal plants.   annual reports, supervision
reports, ICR.
# of hectares put under   Publishedr eports, Published
cultivation of farner crop  reports,Pr ojectqu arterly and
varietiesa ndmedi cinal plant annual reports, supervision
species.                  reports, ICR
% Reduction in encroachment Publishedrepo rts, Project
of natural habitats.      quarterly and annual reports,
supervisionr eports, ICR
%Rehab ilitationof degraded  Publishedrepo rts, Project
landsa ndre stockingof    quarterly and annual reports,
wildlife protected areas.  supervision reports, ICR.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Formulating the Policy  Policies/strategiesr elatedto  Project Supervision reports.  Development/Global
Framework:                biodiversity reviewed byen d  Project quarterly and annual  Objective:
a. Policies/strategies for  PY02,b roadercon sultations  progress reports.
biodiversity conservation and  carried outby end PY03, and                     GOGwilli ngnessan dcap acity
management formulated.    an effective national policy on                     toim plementrequisite
biodiversity management                              institutional and
developed by end PY04, and                           organizationalc hanges and
implementedby end PY05.                              strategy.
b. An effective Intellectual  Draft IPRpo licies and  Project Supervision reports.
PropertyR ights (IPR)p olicy  bio-prospectingg uidelines  Project quarterly and annual
(including benefit sharing)  developedan d tested by end  progress reports.
and bio -pros pecting     PY03,and finalized by end
- 35-



guidelines for the utilization  PY05.
of biodiversity resources and
indigenouskn owledge
developed.
c. Review,f inalization and  N BSAPr eviewc ompletedb y PublishedNBS APdo cument. Willingness of theMinis tryo f
adoptionof theNation al   endPYO 2;r eviseddo cument Consultant's reports.    Environment,Sc ience and
Biodiversity ActionPlan   incorporating bio-prospecting Workshop reports.Cabin et  Technology to release draft
(NBSAP).                  and biosafety issues finalized  notification letter. National  document and participate in
anda pprovedb yG OGb y    gazettement notices. Project  the review and finalization.
Y04, andim plementedb y   quarterly andannual progr ess
PY05.                     reports. Legislative
instruments.
d. Specificr egulations   N orthemr egion-wide      Published regulations and  TAMD, healers' and
regarding traditional     discussions on the Traditional codesofco nduct.Co nsultant's traditional medicine providers'
medicine practice and codes  andAlter nativeMedicines  reports.Worksh op reports.  agreement to workt ogether.
ofc onduct for traditional  Act completed by PYO1.  Cabinet notificationl etter.
healers associations      Regulations on traditional  National gazettementnotices.
developed.                medicinepracticean dcod es  Project quarterly and annual
ofc onduct forTH As       progressr eports.Legis lative
developeda nda doptedb y  instruments.
PY03.
Implementation of regulation
and code of conduct by PY04.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
2.C anacity Buildine and
Awareness Raisin
a. (i)Capac ityand        a.( i)l nstitutionalc apacity  Progress and supervision
collaborationof national,  assessmentcon ducted and  reports
regionala nd district level  trainingneeds identified by  Implementation completion
governmentagen cies(M LFM, endP YO1. Training      report.
MOFA, MOH,MEST, EPA,      completed4 0%by en d FY02,
DAs, PGRC) for            60% byFY 03, 80% byen d
implementingpr ograms and  FY04 andlO 0% by endPYO 5.
activitiesto wardsu stainable  Constructionofr angerca mps
biodiversity management   ando bservationpo sts
strengthened.             completed by PY03.
Supplyo f goodsan d
equipmentc ompletedb y
PY04.
Progress and supervision
- 36-



(ii) Capacity of the project  a. (ii)Cap acity assessed and  reports. Implementation
implementation unit (SRMC) PIU up to 90 %strength ened  completion report.
tocollabo rate andimplem ent byen dP YOla nd 100%b y
NSBCP strengthened.       end PY02.
b. Establishmentof a      Capacity needs including  Project progress reports   Resources are provided in
herbariumi n Tamale       training needs assessment  Project supervision reports,  timelyman ner
completedb y PYO1;        ICR.
Herbarium fully established
by end PY04 (40%b y PY02,
80% by PY03).
#o fp lants peciese ffectively
kept by end PY02.
c. Biodiversity Management  Needsass essments completed Progress and supervision  MOHfu lly supports
InformationSy stemsand GI S in PYO 1. Procurement and  reports, M&E reports.   Directorates trengthening.
database developed.       installation of equipment
completed by end PY02 and  Monitoring reports, ICR and
trainingofs taffc ompletedb y  relevant data generation.
PY02. NSBCP M&Esy stem
fullyin tegratedin to NSBCP
MISb yen dP Y02.NS BCP
MIS fullyinteg ratedinto
SRMC MIS b y end PY03.
d. Traditional and        Capacity assessment       Progress and supervision
AltemativeMed icines      conducteda nd trainingneeds  reports, M&E reports.
Directorate of MOH        identifiedb yPYO 1.       Workshopr eports
strengthened. Support to  Procurementan ds upplyo f
THAsan d TBAs,            goods and equipmentto
GHATRAM.                  TAMDco mpletedb y PY02.
e. Capacity building and  Capacitya ndt raining need  Progress and supervision
AwarenessRais ing forCiv il  assessment completedb y end  reports.
Societyand Communities.   PYO 1. Training plan      Implementation completion
developed byen dPY 01.    reports.
%p eople/groupstrai nedb y  Educationandm ass        Pub lic interestand supporto f
PY02 (30%), PY03( 40%),   awarenessdo cuments        communities;co mmitmentto
PY04( 50%), PY05 (60%)    prepared anddisse minated.  sustainablereso urce
andP Y06 (70%).                                     use/conservationactiv ities.
#o fcom munities thathav e
received education and
awareness.
#edu cationan daw areness
campaigns carried out in a
year.
- 37-



3. Biodiversity
Conservation.Res earcha nd
Development
a.Dev elopmento f         Biodiversityman agement   Baseline survey andS RMC
Biodiversity Management and systemsan dstrateg ies  progressr eport.
Conservation Sys tems and  developedand implemented
Strategies for pilot protected  by PY06.
areas including" hotspots"a nd
endemic species.
(i)De tailedso cio-economic  Socio-economics urveys  Consultants' reports. Project  Communities would not
surveys of communities living completed by PYOI.    quarterly andannual progr ess encroach on forest and
in and around protected area                        reports.                  wildliferes ervesan dwo uld
systems forl Ofo rest and 2                                                   collaboratein achieving
wildliferes erves.                                                           sustainable management
objectives.
(ii) Detailed ecological and  Surveysco mpleted byen d  Consultantsrepo rt.Projects
biological surveys conducted  PY02.                 quarterly andannual progr ess
in 12 protecteda reasa nd                           reports. SRMCr eports.I CR
endemics peciesan dh otspots"
identified.
(iii) Biodiversity management Management for 10 forest and Consultantsrepo rt.Projects
plans for lOf orest and 2  2 wildliferes erves developed  quarterly andannual progr ess
wildlife reservesand      andad optedby PY 05(4 MPs  reports.SRMC reports. ICR.
strategies for the protection  byPY 03,8 MPsb y PY04).
and management of' hotspots' Strategies for managing and
anden demics pecies       conserving hotspots and
developed andimp lemented.  endemic speciesd eveloped
and implemented by end
PY06.
(iv) Strategies for cultivation  Strategies developed and  Consultantsrepo rt.Projects  Localco mmunitiescap able
andprotectio no fin digenous  implementedby end PY06.  quarterly andannual progr ess and willingt o implement
cropvarietiesin PAs       # ofPAsin whichind igenous reports.SRMC reports. ICR.  agreed activities.
developed andimp lemented.  crop varieties have been
preserved.
%dis tributiono find igenous
crop varieties ina PA.
(v) Empowering key        # ofW PAMCs, FMCs,        Projects quarterly and annual Stater esource managers'
stakeholders (particularly  DEMCs, CEMCs established  progressrepo rts.S RMC  preparednessto sh edo ffth e
communities) for biodiversity andeffe ctively resourced.  reports. ICR.       "siegeme ntality".
conservation.             # ofc ommunity                                      Localco mmunitiescap able
representativesonth e                               and willingt o implement
committees.                                         agreed activities.
#of timesco mmittees
participate int he planning
process and implementation
ofan nualwo rkpl ans of FSD
and WD.
% share of revenueand
benefits to communities.
- 38-



% reduction in poachinga nd
encroachment.
b. Improvingb iodiversity  Pilot areasidentifie d inP YOI. Projects quarterly and annual Willingnesso fst akeholdersto
conservation through land  Studies on soil-species match  progress reports. Supervision  actively participate in
management and restoration  completed by PYOI.      reports. ICR.              implementing activitiesonthe
of degraded landsi n 6 pilot  #o fpilo t cultivationtr ials                    ground.
off-reserve areas.        initiatedby end PY02.
3off-res ervep ilotare as  # of hectares under cultivation                     THAs and TBAscan pro vide
identifiedf oreach of the  trials.                                             early warning impact on
following:                # ofp eople engaged                                  species before changes in
- restoration of degraded  cultivation pilot trials.                           numbers become apparent
lands;                    Survivalr ate ofcul tivated
- medicinalpl ant cultivation; plants.
#o f fieldg eneb ankso f
medicinal plants established
by theen d ofPY 06.
c. Developing and sustaining # ofbro aderco nsultations  Project quarterly and annual
biodiversityi nw ildlife  with communities           progress reports. Project
corridors.                surroundingthe tw o faunal  supervision reports. ICR.
corridorsand o therk ey
stakeholdershel d and
completed inPYO 1.        MOU document.
MOUs ignedb etweenPA
managers,D As and local
communitiesby end PY01.
(i) Supportma nagementa nd                          Project quarterly and annual
developmento f community  # of community dedicated  progress reports. Project
"dedicated" reserves.     reserves establishedand   supervision reports. ICR.
maintained.
#o fh ectareso fc ommunity
lands putunde rpe rmanent
cropping, e.g. woodlots or
under no-bum regimes.
#o fh ectareso fc ommmunity
land incorporatedintot he
corridor.
# of communities involved in
activities compatible with
corridorsdev elopment.
(ii) Supportcon servationo f                        Project quarterly and annual
wild animals.             %i ncreasein nu mbersofk ey  progress reports. Project
speciessu chas elephants.  supervision reports. ICR.
%r eductioninw ilda nimals
poached.
% increasei ntour ism
receipts.
% reductioni n incidence and
severity of cropraid ing.
#peo pleint heco mmunity
willing to engageinpatr ol of
d. Sustaining medicinal plant PAbo undaries.        Project quarterly and annual
- 39-



resources.                                          progress reports. Project
# ofcom munitiesan d people  supervision reports. ICR.
cultivatingmedic inalpi ants
in fieldgeneban ks.
# ofsp ecieso f medicinal
plants cultivated.
# ofhect ares cultivated.
Ratio ofvo lume ofim edicinal
plants harvestedf rom the wild
and from cultivated plots.
Length of distances covered
by collectors.
%in creaseinin comesof
e. In-situ germplasm      healersand collectors.    Project quarterly and annual
development(field g ene banks                       progress reports. Project
fors ustainablepro ductionof  # of farmerswith f ield gene  supervision reports. ICR.
agro-biodiversity)        banks registered.
# off armer variety and
medicinal plants conserved or
cultivated.
Hectares underin-situ
conservation.
#of requestsf or planting
f. Ex-situ germplasm      material made by individuals. Project quarterly and annual
conservation.                                       progress reports. Project
# ofgerm plasm collected and  supervision reports. ICR.
stored.
#ofs uccessful replications
made.
# ofrequ ests for germplasm
madeto the repository agency.
4. ProiectMa naeement,
Monitoringa nd Evaluation
a. Pr ojectM anagement    Projectcoo rdinator appointed. Advertisement. Interview  Commitmentb yML FMto
operational andfully      Ancillary staff appointed.  report.App roved contract  supportPMCU and
integratedintoSRMC.       Project management fully  document.                  implement the project.
integrated into SRMC in   Project progress and
PYO1.                     supervisionr eports.
b. Projectmon itoringa nd                            M&Er eports.              Availability of counterpart
evaluationsy stem developed  Monitoring and Evaluation  Project progress and   staff.
and implemented.          system integratedinto M&E  supervision reports. ICR.
at SRMCa ndfu Ily
operational by endPYOI .
M&E coordinator appointed
within SRMC.
c. Environmental and Social                         Project quarterly and annual
Mitigation Plan (ESMP)    ESMP fullyin tegratedinto  progressr eports.M &E
integrateda nd implemented.  the overallM& Es ystemo f  reports. Project supervision
theproject in PYOI.       reports. ICR
# ofinitig ationaction salready
implemented.
#oftr ainingfor ESMP
- 40-



implementerscond ucted.
Project Components/       Inputs (budget for each
Sub-components            component including
contingencies)
l.Formu latingthePo licy  US$0.50 million           Disbursementr eports.     Timelyand a dequate
Framework                                                                  counterpart funds maintained.
2. Capacity-buildinga nd  US$3.07 million           Annuala udit reports.
Awareness Raising
3. Bio diversity Conservation, US$3.64 million      Quarterly financial reports.
Researchand Development
4. Project management,    US$1.30 million
Monitoring and Evaluation
-41-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GHANA: Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
Background
The key issues on natural resource management in Ghana are land and forest degradation, loss of
flora and fauna biodiversity associated with unsustainable harvesting levels in both the high forest (timber
extraction) and savanna zones (poles/woodfuel and medicinal plants), and unsustainable land use practices
especially crop farming and livestock grazing. Biodiversity in the savanna zone is a vital economic
resource, particularly to the poor segment of the rural population. Biodiversity conservation is primarily a
land-use issue with the driving force of land degradation being population pressure, inappropriate
agricultural practices, over-exploitation and introduction of competition from exotic species.
The development objective of the NRMP is to protect, rehabilitate, and sustainably manage
national land, forest and wildlife resources and to sustainably increase the income of rural communities
who own these resources. The global environmental objective is to increase the ecological security of the
globally significant biological resources, especially within threatened tropical moist forest ecosystems. A
six-year GEF biodiversity component of US$8.70 million (focusing on the southem high forest) was linked
to NRMP I and II. Although the NRMP I was approved on May 1998, it became effective on June, 1999 to
be completed by June 2001. Nevertheless NRMP I has now been extended to end in June, 2002. The
context of the GEF supported Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation project is to complement the
last year of NRMP 1 (2 years), the proposed NRMP II (4 years) and NRMP III (4 years), NSCBP would
start April 2002 to overlap with the last year of NRMP I, NRMP II for 4 years and NRMP III for one
year.
The Sudan and Guinea savanna zones include the northern, drier, two thirds of the country, where
the main economic activities are the production of annual crops (cereals, legumes, root crops, cotton) and
livestock. While the northern savannas are home to about one third of wildlife species in Ghana, annual
bushfires affect 50 percent of the savannas, destroying species of flora and fauna and reducing
biodiversity.
The savanna zones are also under tremendous pressure from growing human and livestock
populations, agricultural expansion, inappropriate farming practices, deforestation, bush fires, and
introduction of new crop varieties that are replacing indigenous varieties. All these activities contribute to
land degradation and loss of biodiversity and identified in the NEAP as one of the major environmental
issues in Ghana. A number of problems can be directly linked to increasing land degradation. They include:
(i) a poorly developed market system that does not price exploited natural resources at their real economic
value while providing easy (open) access to dwindling communally-owned natural resources; (ii) inefficient
public regulating agencies with overlapping responsibilities; (iii) inadequate/negligible involvement by key
stakeholders including local communities in natural resource management; (iv) weak institutional capacity
in the wildlife sector and little involvement of communities in the management and sustainable use of
wildlife resources; and (v) lack of inter-agency coordination in planning and monitoring natural resource
use, especially at the district and field levels.
All land including forest and savanna woodland reserves in Ghana are owned by the local
communities and traditional authorities. Regarding reserves, the government's role is to manage these
resources in trust for the people. The key objectives of Government natural resource policy include: (a)
ensuring sustainable production of forest products, (b) preventing further environmental degradation due to
deforestation and inappropriate farming practices, and (c) stimulating community involvement in
management of natural resources and enhanced economic well-being of rural communities. Specific policy
- 42 -



and institutional reforms that were identified to address these objectives are directed at four areas:
development of procedures for allocating timber utilization contracts, forest revenue policy, trade policy,
and restructuring of forest and wildlife sector institutions. Technical and analytical studies to design a
coherent sector-wide program of policy and institutional reforms have been undertaken, resulting in the
adoption of a new National Forest and Wildlife Policy in 1994 based on three pillars of resource protection,
sustainable production, and involvement of local rural people. Subsequently, a system-wide master plan,
the Forest Development Master Plan (1996-2020), was developed to implement the policy. A companion
legislation in Wildlife Management is also being prepared.
Medicinal plants and the traditional knowledge of their use have been the mainstay of healthcare in
northem Ghana for centuries. While the government is doing all it can to increase the availability of modem
healthcare, especially in rural areas, the majority of public health posts are poorly equipped and
administered and per capita allopathic drug expenditure is low. Two important government actions have
given greater acceptance to the value of traditional healthcare in Ghana. First, to regulate the practice of
traditional medicine, register practitioners and license premises for practice and to regulate the preparation
and sale of herbal medicines a Traditional Medicine Practices Act (No. 575) was passed in 2000. Apart
from being the first of its kind in Africa, this Act not only legitimizes traditional medicines and healers, but
may also put more pressure on the affected plants species due to the increased national attention. Since the
majority of plants used for traditional medicines are harvested from the wild, it is important that this basic
resource is protected through sustainable harvesting and/or cultivation. Second, MOH has established a
Traditional and Alternative Medicines Directorate (TAMD). The Directorate would serve to integrate a
safe and regulated traditional medicine practice into the National Health System, and play an important
intermediary role between MOH and MLF in the implementation of the project. Such a role would help link
the demand for plant-based drugs and their sustainable supply from in-situ and ex-situ sources.
Other relevant government policies include: (a) the draft National Biodiversity Strategy and Action
Plan and the National Forest Protection Strategy which seek to: (i) safeguard genetic diversity and diversity
of indigenous faunal and floral species through an ecosystem approach to management within all ecological
zones, (ii) improve knowledge of the distribution and status of rare, threatened and endemic fauna species
through targeted surveys, (iii) enhance protection of critical areas for migratory species through improved
monitoring and habitat management, and (iv) ensure sustainability and preserve genetic diversity within
non-timber forest species that are collected by rural populations for medicinal and consumptive uses
through improved data collection, regulation of harvesting, and proactive management; and (b) the National
Land Policy (1999) which seeks the application of the principles of sustainable resource development to the
management of the country's land and water resources.
Project Objective and Components
The proposed NSBCP project would be implemented over six years and focus on the three northern
regions of Ghana. Its objectives seek improvement in environment, healthcare and economic livelihood, and
the conservation of globally significant biodiversity in the northern savanna zone and would complement
the NRMP APL, and the baseline activities would be covered under the NRMP II. The NSBCP consists of
four components aimed at promoting application of improved savanna land and natural resources
management techniques, involvement of communities in biodiversity and savanna resources conservation,
management and use. The proposed project would apply lessons learnt and complement the
community-based management planning processes being generated by the NRMP I for forest reserves,
wildlife protected areas, savanna woodland and integrated community-based watershed management, from
which specific action programs to enhance global benefits of savanna ecosystems would be developed and
tested.
- 43 -



Overall, NSBCP would fund expenses including the following items:
* Small or minor civil works involving the construction or rehabilitation of ranger field stations and fire
observation posts in protected areas;
*   Incremental costs in park or reserve boundary maintenance, fire belt construction and maintenance;
*   Goods including communications equipment, office equipment (e.g., computers, printers, fax, etc),
vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, field implements (e.g., navigational and survey tools, clothing,
cutlasses, etc. laboratory equipment and chemicals (e.g., autoclave, analytic balance, incubators,
luminar flow hood, reagents and chemicals, portable fume chamber, microcentrifuge);
* Consultant services - domestic and international consultants in the areas of protected areas
management, terrestrial ecology, soil fertility improvement, biological and socio-economic surveys, fire
prevention and control, anti-poaching operations, boundary survey, remote sensing, community
education and awareness, training, women's issues;
*   The establishment of pilot farmer-based / cultivation (agronomic trials outside of reserve and protected
areas would utilize (traditional healers in rural areas seldom derive income from healthcare practices,
their primary source of livelihood is farming);
* Farmer knowledge to ensure a sustainable supply of medicinal plants and/or parts;
* Community training and awareness activities, professional development for park/reserve management
staff, on-site;
*   Ranger/community training programs, local community leaders training and workshops;
* Incremental salaries and allowances for community animators/contracting, contract staff, traveling
responsible agencies staff, and
*   Incremental operating costs for field equipment and facilities maintenance, operation of vehicles, office
equipment, etc.
Key outputs for this component are: (i) formulation and implementation of five-year site-specific
management plans for the pilot forest and wildlife reserves; (ii) identification of sustainable cultivation
methods for threatened and high-demand medicinal plant species with possibilities for improving through
selective breeding their genetic basis without compromnising their pharnacopeal properties; (iii) reduction in
the incidences and magnitudes of the annual bushfires and their effects on the protected areas and fringing
areas and communities; (iv) reduction in unsustainable and illegal harvesting of biological resources
(especially wildlife) through activities such as group hunting; and (v) official recognition of the importance
and establishment of two biodiversity corridors of regional/international/global significance linking faunal
populations and reserves in Burkina Faso, Ghana, and Togo.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$0.50 million
Formulating the Policy Framework
Over the last century Ghana is reported to have lost over two-thirds of its forest estate, which at the
beginning of the 20th century measured about 8.2 million hectares. According to FAO statistics, annual
rate of deforestation in the 1980s was estimated at 1.3 percent. As these forests disappeared, biological
resources that inhabited these ecosystems also decimated in numbers and in variety. Although there is no
complete picture about the rate and level of disappearance of bioresources in the country, it is believed that
inappropriate human-induced interventions (mainly inappropriate land management and unsustainable
agricultural practices) and current global economic systems are the two most determining causes of loss of
biodiversity in the country.
- 44 -



The Government of Ghana is tackling the problem of decline of the country's natural resources
base from a number of fronts including the establishment and expansion of protected area systems,
formulation of policies and legislation to regulate the harvesting, utilization, development and preservation
of the country's natural resources endowment, strengthening institutions responsible for natural resources
management, empowering all stakeholders in management, and promoting public education and awareness
raising on sustainable utilization and conservation of natural resources. However, the majority of existing
policies and legislative frameworks do not cover issues related to biodiversity conservation and
management. The country's policies and laws are silent on property and access related issues such as
patenting of innovations and traditional indigenous knowledge, farmers' right to bioresources and
conservation knowledge, fair and equitable sharing of benefits with bioresources owners and holders of
indigenous knowledge on the utilization and conservation of biodiversity. In a world of increasing
appropriation and commercialization of traditional indigenous knowledge and bioresources through
collection and bioprospecting of plant species for pharmaceutical developments, it behooves on Ghana to
review and update its existing policies and legislation to discourage "biopiracy" and ensure that its
biodiversity is sustainably managed and resource owners and holders of knowledge are equitably
compensated.
The objective of this component is to assist responsible ministries and agencies (e.g., MLF;
Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology; Ministry of Food and Agriculture; Ministry of Health,
EPA, SRMC, etc.) in defining and institutionalizing effective and long-term resource policies, strategies
(biosafety and bioprospecting guidelines) and harvesting guidelines. The project would ensure that policies,
strategies and guidelines that would be developed would fit well into the draft National Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan, the National Forest Protection Strategy, and the Natural Forest and Wildlife
Policy. A national Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) policy with specific reference on biodiversity use, and
regulations and guidelines for collection of bioresources, compensation for use of indigenous knowledge
and equitable sharing of benefits would be developed under this component. The project would find
consultant services on studies and formulation of policies and legislation, training and consultation
workshops as well as developing incentive packages (e.g. credit systems) for the cultivation of
nonrecommended crop varieties and plant species. The entire processes would be participatory and
consultative.
In this context, the project would also support efforts to develop and promulgate a sui generis
system of IPR goveming the value of indigenous knowledge and innovation, and the collection of biological
resources and dealing with issues such as the equitable sharing of benefits with owners of biodiversity and
holders of biodiversity knowledge and information including that of traditional healers, birth attendants and
local communities. NSBCP would support the TAMD of the Ministry of Health to develop guidelines for
harvesting medicinal plants and for regulating traditional medicine practices. Project funds would be
utilized to support the development of a set of code of ethics for regulating the professional conduct of
traditional healers and associations in the country.
The project would fund under this component expenses for:
* consultant services in the review of the country's laws and regulation related to biodiversity
management and formulation of policies, regulations and material transfer agreements relating to
biodiversity management and conservation;
* training of staff of public institutions to improve capacity to enforce and monitor implementation and
compliance of policies and regulations including the NBSAP;
* consultant services for studies on indigenous knowledge related to biodiversity use, conservation and
management;
- 45 -



*   information dissemination on IPR, TRIPs, CBD-related biodiversity protection requirements, etc.;
*   public awareness raising and national consensus building activities on policies related to IPR,
bioprospecting, biosafety, Traditional and Altemative Medicine Practices Act;
* drafting and registration of local level bylaws including local IPRs and bioprostecting regulations;
*   study tours and exchanges;
*   workshops, consultations, dialogues and meetings;
* international cooperation and dialogue on TRIPS, IPR protection, CBD-related requirements; and
*   strengthening institutions for managing and monitoring IPRs, CBD-related requirements and other
biodiversity-related protection legislation.
Project Component 2 - US$3.07 million
Capacity Building and Awareness Raising
The Government of Ghana recognizes that in order to mainstream biodiversity conservation in
national development it would need to strengthen national, regional, district and local capacities to conserve
biodiversity and implement policies and programs for sustainable natural resources management. In the
context of NSBCP, building capacity for biodiversity conservation and mainstreaming in socioeconomic
development of the country would be tackled on various fronts: creating awareness at the national, regional
and local government levels and among all segments of the society; enhancing skills through human
resources development and training (formal and informal) and providing the tools and equipment to
technical staff of government agencies; promoting effective linkages between government agencies
responsible for natural resources management (i.e., MLF, MOFA, MEST, MLGRD and MOH); and
ensuring collaborative local partnerships that would involve policy makers and technical staff from central,
regional and local government agencies across sectors, representatives of NGOs and CBOs, the academic
and research community and the broader private sector, groups (e.g., women and youth) and communities.
In addition, the mainstreaming of biodiversity conservation in the country's broader development agenda
would require that the government agencies mentioned above, national and local conservation organizations
and local communities get better access to more accurate and widely shared data and information to allow
them to manage the country's biodiversity more effectively for national and global benefits. NSBCP would
respond to the Government's policy on biodiversity conservation and management by supporting the
mobilization of data and information at the project level, the establishment of local and national information
management systems and biodiversity databases, and implementation of training programs in GIS and
information management.
This component would support: (a) procurement of goods and technical assistance services; (b)
incremental operating costs of national, regional, and local level public and private sector institutions, civil
society organizations and communities to carry out their mandatory functions and annual workprograms
toward ensuring sustainable collaborative savanna resource management; (c) development of professional
and leadership qualities of staff and agents of implementing agencies through training in order to strengthen
their capacities to enforce regulations, develop, carry out and monitor conservation planning and provision
of services, communicate and ensure active participation of all key stakeholders in biodiversity
management; (d) training of communities and community-based organizations to enhance their capacities to
participate as equal partners in the formulation, implementation and monitoring of biodiversity management
plans; (e) development of efficient documentation and management information systems to support natural
resources management; (f) traditional medicine organizations, services and delivery systems; (g) pubJic
awareness and education programs related to savanna resource and biodiversity management; and (h)
international coordination, consultation and dialogue.
- 46 -



Subcomponent 2(a) Capacity Building and Awareness Raising for National, Regional and Local
Government Agencies
This sub-component would seek to strengthen the capacities of those government agencies
(especially MLF, MOFA, EPA, Department of Parks and Gardens, District Assemblies, Project
Implementation Units) supporting the implementation of project activities.
Expenses to be funded under this sub-component would include:
*   construction of office accommodation, rangers camps observation posts, etc.
*   procurement of goods (vehicles, cinema van, motor bikes, bicycles, etc.) and equipment (computer hard
and software, computer accessories, cameras, videos, etc.);
*   procurement of consultant services in development and training of government agency staff in database
and information management;
*   training of staff to enhance professional and leadership qualities in order to strengthen their capacities
to enforce regulations, develop, carry out and monitor conservation planning and provision of services,
communicate and ensure active participation of all key stakeholders in biodiversity management;
*   development of efficient documentation and management information systems to support natural
resources management;
*   public awareness and education programs related to savanna resource and biodiversity management;
*   intemational coordination, consultation and dialogue; and
*   incremental operating costs for national, regional, and local level public agency staff to carry out their
mandatory functions and annual workprograms toward ensuring sustainable collaborative savanna
resource management.
Subcomponent 2(b) Establishment of a herbarium in Tamale
GEF funds would be used to support the establishment of a small herbarium at Tamale, NR that
would be managed by a qualified plant curator who would work under the Project Coordinator and be
responsible for identifying and maintaining plant collections, with specific reference to medicinal plants
species and indigenous farmer crop varieties. The Tamale herbarium would establish links with local (e.g.,
Ghana Herbariurn, Aburi Botanical Gardens, etc.) and international herbaria. The species verification
would be done under the supervision of the National Herbarium at the University of Ghana, Legon. The
project would also assist with the design and set up of documentation centers at Tamale, Wa and
Bolgatanga for herbarium preparations. In addition, the project would support the establishment of plant
species databases at Tamale in the Northem Region, Wa in the Upper West Region and Bolgatanga in the
Upper East Region with links to the central database at the University of Ghana, Legon on usage,
distribution and status of farmer crop varieties and medicinal plants used in human and livestock
healthcare. The database would draw together information from oral, traditional, modem literature and
herbarium collections. The systematic documentation and evaluation of threat, rarity and demand would be
a first for the West Africa Region in termns of its scope and comprehensiveness and would have global and
regional, as well as national benefits. The key output for this project component is a functioning herbarium
located in Tamale and linked to other national and intemational herbariums.
GEF funds under this sub-component would be used to support:
*   furnishing of office space for the herbaria (e.g., fumiture, books, cost of duplication and referencing
of documents and reports;
*   procurement of goods (computer and accessories) and technical assistance services;
*   training for plant collectors and curators;
-47 -



*   public relations advocacy work;
*   linkages between the Tamale herbarium and the National Herbarium in Accra;
*   data gathering, synthesis, storage and dissemination; and
*   operating incremental costs for herbarium staff.
Subcomponent 2(c) GIS-Based Biodiversity Management Information System Development
There is an enormous amount of data on natural resources and biodiversity use and conservation
gathered from many different sources in the country. More data on biodiversity management and
socio-economics of people living in or on the fringes of the pilot areas would emanate from the
implementation of NSBCP. The extreme dispersion and quantity of data generally have made it extremely
difficult for policy makers, application scientists, local leaders, NGOs and other users to access data of
particular relevance to biodiversity conservation and resource management or even to learn of its existence.
Most often, data have been of poor quality, poor usability, and inaccessible. NSBCP therefore aims at
developing a GIS-based management information system that would interface environmental (mainly
biodiversity data) with socio-economic data in a format that would be reliable, easily accessible and
user-friendly to policy and decision makers, private sector, NGOs, groups and communities.
The sub-component would fund the following activities:
*   consultant services in development and training of government agency staff, private sector, NGOs and
others in database and information management;
*   consultant services in system development and management;
* furnishing of the MIS office at SRMC with furniture, telephone, fax, etc.;
*   procurement of equipment including computer hard and software, accessories, GIS hardware
(digitizers, scanners, plotters), and software, data acquisition such as satellite images and maps, ps,
etc.;
*   workshops and seminars;
*   publications and information dissemination;
* national and international dialogue and linkages and networks;
*   incremental operating costs; and
*   incremental allowances for SRMC and other temporary contract staff.
Subcomponent 2(d) Strengthening of the Traditional and Alternative Medicines Directorate of
MOH and Support to THAs, TBAs and GHATRAM
The project would support upgrading and strengthening the ability of TAMD to fulfill its new
mandate as defined in the Ministry's Five Year Strategic Plan for Traditional Medicine (April 2000).
Furthermore, the project would support TAMD to assist healers to establish regional Traditional Healers'
Associations (THAs). In addition, the project would assist the regional THAs, and Traditional Birth
Attendants (TBAs) to work closely with regional MOH offices and the Ghana HIV/AIDS Network
(GHANET) in the use of traditional treatments for HIV/AIDS associated opportunistic diseases.
GEF funds under this sub-component would be used to support the following items:
*   Procurement of goods (office furniture) and equipment (computer hard and software and accessories,
printers, fax, telephone;
*   Establishment of regional associations and groups;
*   Training in good agronomic practices (cultivation practices, IPM, crop harvesting, land tillage, etc.)
and safe and hygienic herbal preparation, etc.;
*   Public awareness raising campaigns of herbalist, THAs, TBAs, GHATRAM, NGOs, cormmunities,
-48 -



etc.;
*   Incremental operating costs;
*   Incremental allowances for contract staff; and
*   Establishment of linkages, networks and information exchanges locally, regionally, nationally and
internationally.
Subcomponent 2(e): Capacity Building and Awareness Raising for Civil Society and Communities
Increasingly, conservationists and protected area managers are shedding off their "siege mentality",
feeling that there is a sea of hostile local interests around them, who are there only to encroach. Under
today's conditions, where sustainable utilization of natural resources is the management objective, the
Government of Ghana is supplementing its effort in protected area management through efforts at
decentralization of power and responsibility, and a return of more resource management to organizations in
the local areas and rural communities. As much as there is recognition for the type of sustainable long-term
land use practices devised and practiced over years by local people and other groups (including civil society
at large), it is important to strengthen their capacities and raise their awareness so that they would be
comfortable and fully active participating in the modem approaches to natural resources and biodiversity
conservation. Thus NSBCP would support formal and informal education and mass awareness campaigns
within all segments of the Ghanaian society of the relevance of conservation, management and sustainable
use of the country's biodiversity and natural resources to Ghana as a nation in its national development and
to the world as a whole. Project interventions would include the development of radio broadcasts and video
programs in various local languages in collaboration with commnunities, chiefs and tindanas, healers,
NGOs, and relevant government ministries and agencies. The programs would be used to extol the values
of good community-based resource management practices and environmental conservation, among others.
The use of drama including role-play would be employed to enhance community participation and
understanding of the values of conservation. The diversity of local cultures and languages would be
recognized. Special programs would target women and children groups, community leaders and local
government officials.
Additionally, the sub-component would support the integration of themes of biodiversity
conservation into the syllabus of school in the three northem regions. Specifically, the objectives of this
intervention are to: (i) design biodiversity education modules in basic schools in the project areas, (ii) train
trainers who would train teachers who would use these modules in their training programs in schools, and
(iii) integrate biodiversity conservation in school syllabuses. Besides, NSBCP would develop a region-wide
biodiversity education and public awareness program to be used in the three northern administrative
regions. GEF funds earmarked under this sub-component would be used to design biodiversity awareness
activities in communities in the project areas and to train selected members of the communities who would
spread the message wider to their members.
The sub-component would also support the Wildlife Protected Area Management Committees
(WPAMCs) or Forest Management Committees (FMCs) or Community Environmental Management
Committees (CEMCs) with equipment and logistics. The sub-component would support communities
within and around reserves to develop village and community ecological and environmental activities that
complement central govemment conservation efforts of the parks and reserves. The capacity building and
awareness raising aspects of the project under this sub-component would be implemented by EPA and
assisted by experienced NGOs such as the Ghana Wildlife Society and the Institute of Cultural Affairs,
Ghana.
The sub-component would finance:
- 49 -



* consultant services (domestic and/or international) on PRA techniques, socio-economic surveys,
resource inventory, community resource management (resources use and allocation), rural
development;
*   minor rehabilitation of small community infrastructure (community centers) identified during
community planning process; purchase of goods including bicycles, office furniture, equipment,
computers where necessary;
*   on-site staff training and creation of awareness of local community personnel;
*   incremental traveling allowances for MLF staff;
*   training of trainers, animation;
* participation in national and international workshops;
*   preparation of biodiversity education modules and their integration in school syllabuses;
*   short domestic and overseas training, for example, in strategic planning, drafting and registration of
local bylaws, community-based development planning, tourist guiding, bush fire management,
anti-poaching, minimunm/no-tillage, bullock ploughing, manuring and composting, agroforestry, land
and water conservation;
*   workshops that would provide new learning enviromnent for healers, communities, researchers with a
practical recognition of their role in conservation and development;
*   incremental operating costs for operations of vehicles, office consumable, publications, expendable
materials, equipment and facilities maintenance and operations; and
*   incremental costs for allowances for contractual and temporary staff.
Key outputs from this component would be: (i) an action plan for implementing collaborative
biodiversity conservation programs; (ii) strengthened public and private sector capacity to conserve,
manage, monitor and evaluate biodiversity conservation and management programs; (iii) a process that
provides for community participation in biodiversity conservation and management programs that reflect
local concerns, needs and interests; (iv) an action plan that integrates local, regional and global biodiversity
initiatives, and is targeted; (v) a functional biodiversity databank together with geospatial referenced MIS
for monitoring ecosystem status and changes; and (vi) education intervention and multi-media awareness
program delivered at community and regional levels.
Project Component 3 - USS 3.64 million
Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Development.
Sub-component 3(a): Development of Biodiversity Management and Conservation Systems for
Protected Areas
There are over 60 forest reserves and two wildlife reserves in the northern savanna zone of the
country. Unlike protected area systems in the high forest zone of the country, very little attention has been
paid to the management of savanna forest and wildlife estates on sustainable basis. The role played by
these life support systems in the country's socio-economic development and growth appear to be
underestimated and hence little or no consideration has been given to ensuring sustainable utilization,
development and conservation of these resources. Wildlife reserves in Ghana have a rich diversity of faunal
and floral species. Mole National Park, for exarnple, has about 93 species of mammnals and over 300
species of birds. There is no substantive list of wildlife species (floral and faunal) for Gbele Resource
Reserve and the Bui National Park. Few botanical surveys have been carried out in wildlife reserves in
Ghana. Similarly, there are few faunal inventories that have been done in the over 260 forest reserves
scattered in the ecological zones of the country.
The objective of this sub-component is to collaboratively develop natural resources management
- 50 -



systems for the northern savanna zone, test and replicate proactive initiatives and measures, which actively
involve local communities more directly in the management and conservation planning processes and in the
actual implementation of activities and work plans for sustainable development and conservation of wildlife
and forest reserves or parks. In this context, the component would support baseline natural resource
inventories and socio-economic assessments of communities living in and around the reserves as well as
those who live in the two proposed corridors. The assessments are aimed at providing information on
current land management practices, resource use and allocation patterns, cultural values, and other
socio-economic conditions which are needed to facilitate the development of cohesive and integrated
resource management systems. The component would support the development and implementation of
community-based resource management action plans to encourage sustainable use of savanna resources.
The expected outcome are communities harmoniously living within the ecosystem and actively involved in
the planning and management of biodiversity in the area including forest reserves and national parks. This
component would address the development of community based initiatives directed at reducing pressure on
the biological resources of wildlife and forest reserves, and enhancing management of off-reserve resources.
Input for developing and implementing this sub-component would form part of the Parks and Reserves
annual business plan and budgets that are supported by the project.
This sub-component would also support protected area boundary maintenance (particularly
boundary cleaning, fire break establishment) re-pillaring and other actions needed to minimize or stop wild
and uncontrolled bushfires. Bush fires remain the single most devastating cause of land degradation and
deforestation in the northem savanna zone. Ravaging bushfires that have become common phenomenon
during the dry season in the norther savanna landscape are human-induced and not caused by accident. The
main culprits are farmers who use fires as a farm management tool, hunters (especially group hunters) for
capturing wild animals, honey tappers for harvesting honey from the wildland, and charcoal bumers for
charcoal production. Their activities, advertently or inadvertently, destroy both vegetation and animal life
in reserves and the wilderness areas, resulting in loss of forage and cover for wildlife and domestic
livestock and causing loss to property and human life. Under Component 2, the project would support
awareness raising and public education of the communities on early and control burning, bushfire
prevention and control, and establishment of firebreaks within and around reserves. Further, project funds
would be used to train both old and new members of community fire volunteer units. A region-wide
campaign on environmental and biodiversity management and conservation in the three northem savanna
regions would be funded under this project and led by the EPA, Ghana Wildlife Society and Institute of
Cultural Affairs.
Though there is high demand for bushmeat in Ghana, the availability of animal wildlife in reserve
and non-reserve wilderness areas has been drastically reduced and biological diversity is at serious risk of
extinction in many such protected areas. Wild animal exploitation has been uncontrolled in the off-reserve
areas and once populations have decimated communities engage in illegal hunting in the reserves.
"Poaching" in protected area systems such as forest reserves, wildlife parks and resource reserves is
serious and chronic. Another canker is what has become commonplace as "group hunting", where hunters,
in groups numbering over a hundred, move into wildemess areas and hunt wild animals for consumption
without any discourse to species' status, numbers and distribution, sex, or age. The practice has contributed
to decline in numbers and diversity of species, and contributed to the ultimate extinction of species outside
forest and wildlife reserves in the savanna ecosystem. In collaboration with local communities and their
traditional authorities, this sub-component would provide funds for the identification and implementation of
incentive-based anti-poaching and group hunting activities. Within this context, the component would also
provide funds for resource management and conservation activities that would allow communities to live in
harmony in the parks and reserves. While the NSBCP would not be supporting any social investments in
the project areas, the project would facilitate community negotiation with the Bank-funded VIP and the
- 51 -



projects CWSP-II to provide some community infrastructure and sanitation support as well as alternative
livelihood systems as incentive and "compensation" for community participation in sustainable resource
management activities or in curbing activities detrimental to the survival and development of biodiversity.
Experience from around the world indicates that conservation activities could be jeopardized in the
long term as population increases if the economic needs of adjacent communities are not addressed as an
integral part of conservation activities. Conversely, the CAMPFIRE program in Zimbabwe offers a means
of sustainably harvesting wild animals in communal areas for the benefit of local communities, where
income receipts accrue to participating households. The CAMPFIRE communities now perceive forest
reserve and wildlife as an asset with value and not merely posing a threat to life, crops and domestic
livestock. The adaptation of the CAMPFIRE approach and the recognition of traditional leadership
structures in the proposed project should catalyze the conservation and sustainable use of threatened plants
and animals by local communities.
Given the context described above, the sub-component would support the empowerment and active
participation of communities living in or close to wildlife and forest reserves in the management and
conservation of the pilot protected areas. This would be done through the formation of WPAMCs and
FMCs or any other structures deemed appropriate, which would include representatives from communities,
whose lives are dependent on the protected areas. The core membership of such committees would include
key central government agencies' staff with responsibility for natural resources management and local
govemment administration, the private sector, civil society and local NGOs, associations, women and
youth groups, etc. Under this sub-component, support would be given to develop terms of reference, which
would include an overall management profile (structure, mandate, financial arrangements, etc.) and roles,
rights and responsibilities of all key groups represented on the committees. The capacities of WPAMCs and
FMCs would be enhanced in order for the committee to be able to contribute effectively in the strategic
planning processes and plan implementation as well as in the provision of overall guidance (including
monitoring and evaluation) in the management of the parks, protected areas and reserves. Once their
capacities have been strengthened through training, workshops and exchanges, these local management
structures would develop and implement protected area management annual workplans, which would be
partially supported by the project. In addition to planning for conventional activities within the reserves,
these workplans would include biodiversity-enhancing community-based activities and initiatives such as
the practicing of compatible and sustainable agricultural methods (e.g., multiple cropping, composting and
organic farming, integrated pest management, etc.), wild animal domestication (e.g., giant grasscutter) and
other land management technologies (e.g., contour bunding, water harvesting, agroforestry, woodlot
establishment, cover cropping, no-burn, etc.).
The sub-component would initially finance, through consultant services, baseline socio-economic
surveys of communities living in or fringing the project pilot areas and also support ecological and
biophysical inventories in ten forest and two wildlife reserves. To solicit community participation in
savanna resources and biodiversity management the sub-component would support participatory diagnostic
studies and dialogue to get a feel about how far and in what form communities would like to be involved in
the project. Such studies would also give an insight into the types of interests, perspectives, incentives and
compensations that local people would like to derive from their participation. The sets of data and
information emanating from these inventories, assessments and studies as well as earlier results from
ecological monitoring, maps, and field investigations would be needed in the formulation processes of
effective management systems for managing those selected pilots. These management systems would
include measures related to institutional and financing arrangements, strategies and action plans for the
sustainable development and conservation of biodiversity, particularly of rare, endangered and threatened
species, biodiversity "hotspots" as well as strategies and action plans for the rehabilitation and restocking
- 52 -



of the pilot reserves.
The satisfactory implementation of biodiversity management and conservation systems would
require that effective education and outreach programs are developed and carried out. NSBCP would
support a northern region-wide education and awareness-raising campaigns. Specific education and
outreach programs, addressing the management constraints and needs of communities and organizations
participating in the development and implementation of biodiversity management and conservation systems
for the 12 pilot reserve areas would be supported under Component 2 of the project. Funds earmarked
under Component 2 would also be used to support public education campaigns to educate communities on
the hazards of group hunting as well as its effects on the fauna, flora, and associated socio-economic
disadvantages. Other activities which would be funded through component 2 of the project include assisting
local communities, District Assemblies, law enforcement agencies, and natural resource management
agencies in developing and enforcing hunting by-laws and regulations.
The sub-component would support:
*   consultant services to undertake detailed socio-economic surveys of communities living in or at the
fringes of protected areas (10 forest and two wildlife reserves);
*   consultant services to undertake baseline ecological and biological surveys (including biodiversity
"hotspots", species' endemism and populations of rare, endangered or threatened species) for the ten
selected forest and two wildlife reserves;
*   consultant services to undertake ecological studies on some key wildlife species including the black and
white olobus, leopard, lion, yellow-backed duiker, elephant, etc.;
*   technical assistance for domestication of wild animals (e.g. grasscutter);
*   identification and implementation of biodiversity-enhancing community-based activities for off-reserve
area management (nursery establishment, planting and maintenance, agro-forestry, domestication of
grasscutter, etc.);
*   development of costed annual workplans for the reserve areas;
*   consultant services for the development of the biodiversity management and conservation systems;
*   field level implementation of the strategies and activities developed under the management systems;
*   wild animal capture, maintenance, transport and restocking;
*   construction and maintenance of trails for monitoring and ecotourism;
*   civil works (ranger camps, observation posts,);
*   goods (e.g., vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, wellington boots, cutlasses, clothing, planting tools,
watering containers, seeds, manure, animal cages, etc.);
*   equipment (e.g. communications equipment, navigational and survey tools, computers, printers, fax,
and minor camp gears, etc.);
*   production of site maps and biodata maps;
*   data gathering, analysis, storage and distribution and information feedback;
*   fonmal training for WD and FSD staff, study tours and educational exchanges for WPAMCs and
FMCs;
*   community fora, durbars and workshops on anti-poaching, bush fire management, agro-forestry,
domestication;
*   organization of park or reserve management coordination meetings;
*   enforcement and compliance monitoring of regulations and laws;
*   drafting and registration of local level bylaws;
*   incremental operating costs for FSD and WD; and
*   incremental allowances for people involved in the implementation of project activities such as in
reserve boundary cleaning, maintenance and patrolling, bush fire control, establishment of firebreaks,
- 53 -



etc.
Sub-component 3(b): Improving Land Management. Restoration of Degraded Lands in 6 Pilot
Areas
An EPA survey (early 1990s) revealed that the Upper East Region is the most degraded land area
in Ghana. Furthermore, with increasing degradation, deforestation has progressed to the point where climax
and pro-climax vegetation are not visible in many areas except in reserved forest and patches of sacred
groves. In addition, soil erosion has been aggravated over the past 20 years. Over the years, donor support
for projects in the three northern regions aimed at arresting land degradation and enhancing proper land
management [e.g., the Irrigation Company of Upper Region's (ICOUR) environmental restoration project
funded by UNDP, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) project on improving root
and tuber crop production covering selected communities in these regions, and the Upper Regional
Agricultural Development Program (URADEP)] has contributed little to the maintenance of the integrity of
forestland, savanna and farmland systems. These donor-supported initiatives may have had little effect in
the way the northern savanna vegetation zone has been managed partly because the programs had little or
no community involvement and approaches for management and conservation did not consider local level
interests and preferences. NSBCP would work with and through the communities fringing or living in the
selected pilot sites in order to make sure that the benefits derived from the project are replicable and
sustainable.
The sub-component objective is to bring about the sustainable development and management of
dryland/savanna ecosystems through desertification control techniques. Under this sub-component, the
project would support: (i) socio-economic baseline surveys in communities fringing the pilot sites and
bio-physical inventories of the selected areas, (ii) selection of the six pilot off-reserve areas, based on
geographical spread to be included in the project, (iii) establishment and strengthening of community-level
committees and reaching agreement to support project components, (iv) protection and maintenance of
pilot areas, and (v) nursery establishment and distribution of plant seedlings to participating communities.
Sensitization and awareness campaigns, education and training programs for bushfire prevention
squads would be financed from funds allocated under component 2 (e).
Six (6) pilot off-reserve areas would be identified in the three Northern Regions which would link
with the Savanna Resource Management Component of the NRMP, which focuses on the degraded
landscape of the Northern, Upper East and Upper West Regions of Ghana and piloting land management
approaches in both on and off-reserve areas. The principal project beneficiaries are expected to be the
communities in the selected, affected areas who would be participating in the project activities.
Interventions in the pilot areas would be implemented in close collaboration with a number of key
organizations (Forest Services Division of the Forestry Commission and other relevant Governmental and
Nongovernmental organizations) and led by the Desertification Control Unit of the EPA based in
Bolgatanga. The District and Community Environmental Management Committees, among others, would
play an active role in project implementation,
Project funds would be available for:
*   consultancy services for socio-economic surveys and baseline biophysical and ecological surveys of the
pilot areas;
*   selection of six pilot off-reserve areas;
*   purchase of inputs (seeds, planting materials. etc.) and other services;
*   training of communities in nursery establishment, planting techniques, farm maintenance, bush fire
- 54 -



management, land and water management techniques, etc.;
* equipment (planting tools, nursery materials, Wellington boots, watering containers, etc.), vehicles;
* workshops, meetings, dialogues;
* incremental operating costs for people involved in the project; and
* incremental staff allowances.
Sub-component 3(c): Sustaining Biodiversity in the Development of Wildlife Corridors
Currently, there are 2 wildlife reserves in the northern savanna zone that are mostly isolated from
each other. Over an extended period, these islands of biological resources therein would not be able to
sustain themselves because most of these habitats would have become too small and fragmented and the
fauna would have experienced inbreeding and apparent weakening of their gene pool. The rate of loss of
ecosystems and habitat in off-reserve areas and the pressure on wildlife in the protected areas could soon
lead to loss of biodiversity.
However, contiguous networks of habitats or ecosystems in the form of corridors using, for
instance riverine, gallery forests or state forest reserves that are augmented by managed community
wildlife/natural resource reserves (fauna corridors) would ensure that there would be unimpeded movement
of fauna between these habitats or ecosystems. Such networks of habitats would thus allow/support
internixing of genetic material of species between habitats and hence enhancement of biodiversity. To
establish successful corridors, it essential to reduce and mitigate human wildlife conflicts. Mitigation
measures include modification of farning practices, particularly timing and use of monitoring and early
waming and deterring equipment.
Two biodiversity-rich corridors were identified and proposed for inclusion into the NSBCP. The
first proposed corridor to be situated in the north-western part of the country would begin from the Sisilli
Central forest reserve Pudo forest reserve Chiana Hills forest reserve and link with Nazinga Game Ranch
in Burkina Faso. The second corridor is situated in the Guinea and Sudania savanna woodlands of North
Eastern Ghana. It runs from Burkina Faso and links forests and other vegetation along the White Volta,
the Red Volta and the Morago rivers and continue to Togo. These two corridors are of international and
global importance because the Sissili River-Podo-Chiana Hills continuum serves as a corridor for the
movement of fauna including elephants between Ghana and Burkina-Faso while the Red and White
Volta-Morago River forest continuumn is used by elephants that move between Burkina-Faso, Ghana and
Togo. The establishment and management of the two corridors would be supported through targeted
efforts, awareness raising and activities (e.g., community reserves, appropriate agriculture practices) to
ensure that local communities are fully integrated in the creation and management of these corridors.
A local NGO, the Nature Conservation Research Center (NCRC), working in collaboration with
FSD, WD, District Assemblies and the local communities in the Red Volta River basin, through funding
from Canada, is implementing a project aimed at establishing community reserves in the Red Volta River
basin as a long term solution to the problem of elephant crop-raiding in the area. The Red Volta basin is
one of the two corridors proposed under this component. In implementing this component the project would
seek collaboration with civil society groups and NGOs such as NCRC, Ghana Wildlife Society. The
sub-component would link with similar projects supported by the GEF/UNDP Small Grant Program in
Ghana and the bigger GEF supported wildlife management project in Burkina Faso.
The project would support the following items:
* consultant services in socio-economic assessments and biological and ecological inventories;
- 55 -



*   construction of ranger field camps and an office block in Bolgatanga for the Wildlife Division, fire
observation posts;
*   formnation of WPAMCs and village level resource or corridor management committees;
*   dialogue and consultations between public organizations, civil society groups, NGOs, traditional
authorities and communities;
*   virtual delineation of corridor boundaries;
*   reserve boundary maintenance including cleaning, physical pillaring, establishment of fire breaks, etc.;
*   wild animal capture, transport and restocking;
*   technical training for corridor management team including reserve management staff, on-site rangers,
NGOs, CBOs, community leaders;
*   training of community animators in land and water management, bush fire management, anti-poaching,
nursery management, agroforestry, no-tillage, bullock ploughing, animal manuring and composting,
etc.;
*   goods including communication equipment, office equipment (computers, printers,fax, etc.), vehicle
(for the Bolgatanga office), motor cycles, bicycles, field implements (e.g. navigational and survey tools,
clothing, cutlasses, wellington boots, watering containers, etc. and material inputs (seeds and other
planting materials, organic manure, etc.);
*   establishment of community and individual woodlots and home gardens for threatened farmer crop
varieties;
*   awareness raising and education campaigns;
*   workshops and annual WPAMC meetings; and
*   incremental operating costs and allowances.
Sub-component 3(d): Sustaining Medicinal Plant Resources
This sub-component would support studies to: (i) assess the supply and demand (socio-economic)
of current medicinal plant used for the ten major human diseases and five major livestock diseases, (ii)
identify guidelines for the sustainable harvesting of medicinal plant species in protected sites when ex-situ
conservation/cultivation is not possible; and (iii) establish methods for the propagation and cultivation of
selected medicinal plant species in home gardens, degraded habitats, and as components of agricultural
diversification for use by healers and birth attendants, and as an additional source of income. The project
would also assist CSRPM to identify localities and traditional healer/birth attendants/farmers to cultivate
selected medicinal plant species needed for phyto-medicine production.
The increasing demand in urban centers for traditional medicines has placed increased pressure on
the wild resource-base. Market and field surveys would be carried out to determine pressures on wild
populations and habitats at selected savanna forest sites and to better understand local community and
northern region dependence on medicinal plants for human and livestock health care.
Another activity supported by the project would be ex-situ conservation and cultivation of
medicinal plant species by communities. Home gardens maintained by women are the primary source of
high-demand species as they are the first source of healthcare in the rural communities. Within a
community the micro-environments of home gardens and selected agricultural sites contain high levels of
species: medicinal, herbs, spices and farmer crop varieties of health and nutritional value. The home
gardens are also points of experimentation, introduction of new varieties and/or species and genetic
diversity as a result of plant (germplasm) exchange and supported by social-cultural diversity. TBAs are
also major contributors to and users of home garden medicinal plants. The project would build upon
existing knowledge by documenting species and proposing ways to address sustainability concerns within
- 56 -



conservation, management and sustainable use components. The project would also support the protection
of sacred groves which serve as sources of medicinal plants and help to conserve biodiversity.
The project would support the following items:
*   consultant services in socio-economic surveys and medicinal plant inventories;
*   consultant services in collaboration with farmers in the identification of sustainable agricultural
practices, selection of medicinal plants for cultivation, training extension officers;
*   consultant services in selecting and cultivating medicinal forest plant species;
*   identification of sustainable harvesting guidelines for in-situ high-demand medicinal plant species;
*   community and leader awareness raising and education campaigns;
*   nursery establishment and management;
*   goods (cutlasses, water containers, etc.) and material inputs (fencing, seeds and other planting
materials, etc.);
*   incremental allowances for staff travel; and
*   incremental allowances for operating expenses.
Sub-component 3(e): In-situ Germplasm
The advent of the agricultural revolution and the ever-increasing human populations have resulted
in the use of hybrid and fast-growing and fast-yielding crop varieties by rural fanners. This was done at
the expense of indigenous crop varieties, which were used extensively by farmers earlier, but now
abandoned because they are classified as low-yielding and not fast growing. It is reported that these crops
held the key to turning food production and food security around in food-deficient areas of the northem
savanna zone, especially in the hunger-plagued dry season. There are a number of such indigenous crop
varieties which have been abandoned and are not cultivated. The rationale here is to identify these
abandoned farmer crop varieties by undertaking field inventories and collections from individuals and
organizations who may be repositories for indigenous land races and varieties and replicate them on
farmers' farms and home gardens for farmers who are interested in cultivating these varieties for
subsistence and gain, and also to re-introduce these into farmers' farms and on selected plots to create a
genetic pool for future use. Evidence from southeastem Nigeria and in the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico
and in the Amazon shows that home gardens are arguably the most species-rich agricultural systems in the
world where they serve as refuge for "lost crops". The sub-component would support these activities and
finance the establishment of field gene banks and the development of strategies for sustainable production
of threatened agro-biodiversity.
Under this sub-component, funds would be utilized to purchase inputs (seeds and planting
materials of these identified varieties, compost) and equipment. The sub-component would support
technical assistance for field collections and inventories, cultivation and training of extension staff and
interested farmers. In addition the project would collaborate with the Department of Parks and Gardens and
support the establishment of a botanical gardens in Tamale to maintain a representative sample of savanna
flora in the Tamale urban area, while at the same time providing nature attraction to urban people. The
botanical garden in Tamale has some expertise in nursery establishment and would support the medicinal
plant cultivation and propagation.
Funds allocated under the sub-component would be used to support:
*   re-fencing and physical rehabilitation of office accommodation and the garden structures;
*   consultant services in training extension staff, NGOs and farmers in IPM, cultivation;
- 57 -



*   workshops and meetings;
*   field inventories and collections, storage and preservation;
* dialoguing with communities to get agreements on their participation;
* nursery establishment and management;
* purchase of equipment, materials and inputs;
* public education and awareness creation campaigns; and
*   incremental salaries and allowances for community animators, contract staff, traveling responsible
agencies staff.
Sub-component 3(f): Ex-situ Germplasm
A balanced approach, combining in-situ and ex-situ conservation approaches, to preserving plant
and crop varieties will best serve the needs of farmers as they intensify their production systems. The
existing genebank facilities at the Plant Genetic Resource Center (PGRC) at Bunso warrants upgrading and
strengthening as part of an overall, diversified strategy to conserve crop genetic diversity. Collections at
PGRC are mostly at the "passport level" (data and location of collection level). To be able for PGRC to go
beyond the "passport level" and to test regeneration and mass replication of accessions and of genetic drift
and loss of viability of collected varieties, the Center would need to be strengthened. The project would
support PGRC to establish ex-situ genebanks for the collected, threatened fanner crop varieties and plant
species. This would be achieved in collaboration with communities, in particular farmers and traditional
healers.
In particular, the component would fund studies and surveys, the restoration of off-reserve
degraded lands, the formulation of community-based dedicated and off-reserve bushfire prevenltion and
control schemes, the restoration of soil fertility and promotion of demonstrated farming/agriculture
methods, formulation and implementation of management plans for the selected sites, and education and
training. Management plans and remedial programs which would be developed and implemented for 10
priority areas of protected forests and two wildlife reserves. Adjacent social and agricultural systems
would be taken into account and selection would be on the basis of biological diversity in the area, main
threats, and net global benefits. The lessons leamt from these pilot activities would feed into the
formulation of regional models for Park/Reserve management and continuity of productive (nutritive)
indigenous farmer crop varieties and agricultural practices and would form a platform for the
implementation of a long-term strategy for biodiversity conservation in the northem savannas.
Project funds would be used to finance:
* formal training of staff of PGRC in germplasm conservation technologies;
* equipment (computers, printers, fax, etc.) and laboratory materials and chemicals (e.g. autoclave,
analytic balance, incubators, luminar flow hood, reagents and chemicals, portable fume chamber,
microcentrifuge, etc.);
*   incremental operating costs for filed equipment and facilities maintenance, operation of vehicles, office
equipment; and
*   incremental allowances for staff in germplasm collection.
Project Component 4 - US$1.30 million
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
This component would establish a rigorous project management and administrative system
- 58 -



to support all aspects of project planning, implementation and coordination. The Project Coordinator and a
biodiversity specialist hired for the duration of the project, who would operate under the NRMP project
coordination unit located at SRMC, would lead the project.
Guided by the Project Implementation Plan/Manual (PIP/M), the Project Coordinator would
implement a systematic and detailed monitoring and reporting system focusing on both the output and
outcome of the project. The system should allow an effective evaluation of: (i) the effectiveness of the
project's delivery mechanisms and procedures; (ii) the impact of the field activities on the basis of stated
objectives, and input, output and impact indicators identified in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1);
and (iii) the replication of the in-situ and ex-situ activities at a wider regional scale. The progress towards
project outcomes would be evaluated during project supervision and an in-depth review 12 months after the
project becomes effective (just before NRMP II becomes effective); followed by a mid-term Review at the
36 month stage (or at the same time of NRMP II Mid-Term Review). The in-depth review after 12 months
would determine the extent to which the project is performing relative to NRMP I vis-a-vis its development
objectives. The Mid-Term Review at the 36-month stage would determine the status (relative to NRMP II)
of the project regarding the extent to which it has achieved its objectives by the completion date (72
months). An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared at least six months prior to final
disbursement of the Grant. The Government would prepare its own evaluation of the project and ICR.
Expenses funded under this component would include:
*   consultant services, domestic and intemational, in the areas of project management, accounting,
performance M&E, auditing, procurement;
*   implementation and monitoring of the Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan (ESMP);
*   purchase of goods including vehicle(s), office equipment;
*   incremental operating costs for office consumable, equipment and facilities maintenance, domestic and
intemational travel; and
*   incremental allowances for contract and temporary staff at MLF and other govemment agencies staff
working on the project.
Key outputs are: (i) improved capacity of project implementation including preparation of annual
work plans that are clear, realistic and monitorable; (ii) timely and adequate flows of financial resources to
support all project activities; (iii) improved capacity of M!LF to manage programs of intemational donors
independently; (v) enhanced ability to monitor project performance; and (iv) successful implementation of
ESMP.
Bank Financina under the NRMP
The development of NRMP Phases I, II and III would link with the NSBCP and address activities which
will have more local and national benefits. The activities under the NRMP will build on the general
planning processes developed and test and implement specific action programs to enhance global benefits in
the savanna zone. These overlapping interventions over the next six years of the NSBCP are funded under
IDA and are estimated to cost about US$11.3 million in total. These costs are not included in the NSBCP's
incremental project costs of US$8.51 million in order to avoid double counting. IDA's contribution by
component is shown separately in the table below:
NRMP and NSBCP Overlappine Activities - Incremental Costs by Component
Component              Sector       Bank Financing I GEF Financing   | Total Incremental |
- 59 -



NRMP (US$ M)       NSBCP (US$ M)          Costs (US$ M)
Formulating the Policy       Institutional
Framework                    Development                1.20               0.48                 1.68
Capacity Building and        Institutional
Awareness Raising            Development                1.20               2.76                 3.96
Biodiversity Conservation,   Institutional
Research and Development     Development               7.10                3.25                10.35
Project Management, Monitoring  Public Sector
and Evaluation               Management                1.80                1.11                 2.91
Adjustment
Total Program Cost                                    11.30                7.60                18.91
-60 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GHANA: Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million   US $million   US $million
Formulating the Policy Framework                              0.19          0.25          0.44
Capacity Building and Awareness Raising                       1.06          1.46          2.52
Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Development           1.52          1.42          2.94
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation                 0.66          0.37          1.03
Total Baseline Cost                                           3.43          3.50          6.93
Physical Contingencies                                       0.11          0.17          0.28
Price Contingencies                                          1.08          0.22          1.30
Total Project Costsl                4.62          3.89          8.51
Total Financing Required                 4.62          3.89          8.51
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                  US $million   US $million   US $million
Civil Works                                                    0.13           0.18          0.31
Goods                                                          0.42           0.98           1.40
Services                                                        1.44          0.62          2.06
Training                                                       0.62            0.88          1.50
Operating Costs                                                0.81           0.85           1.66
Physical Contingencies                                         0.11           0.17          0.28
Price Contingencies                                            1.08           0.22           1.30
Total Project Costsl       4.61           3.90          8.51
Total Financing Required        4.61           3.90          8.51
Note:
1. Included in the total project costs are allocations of USS 180,000 for Training and Awareness Raising, and
US$200,000 for Consulting Services, earmarked for the implementation of the Environmental and Social
Mitigation Plan.
2. Costs above do not include $300,000 for a PDF.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.7 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 26.4 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 29.92% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 61 -



Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis and Economic Analysis
GHANA: Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
A. Incremental Cost Analysis
Broad Development Goals
The broad development goals in the savanna regions of Ghana are (a) to improve the environment,
livelihood and health in the generally poor regions, (b) to ensure social and rural development on the basis
of sustainable natural resource management and (c) poverty reduction through better management of
production resources and increasing production by the more disadvantaged rural societies. The Forest and
Wildlife Policy (1994) and the Forestry Development Master Plan (1996) in their savanna components are
the foundation for this development activity as detailed in the Phase I of the NRM project activities.
Baseline Scenario
The baseline activities which Ghana could reasonably have been expected to undertake on national
development grounds to achieve these goals have been well stated in the savanna and wildlife resource
management components of NRMP. These baseline activities include six sub-components: (a) essential
institutional development for savanna resource management, (b) on-reserve savanna resource management,
(c) integrated watershed management off reserve, (d) fuelwood production and marketing (e) national
action program on desertification, and (f) biodiversity conservation that would improve natural resource
management.
In general, the NRMP aims to establish and support individual and community-based sustainable
management of natural resources of land, water, crops, trees and animals. The program has a strong
poverty alleviation focus and is concemed ultimately with helping people improve their lives through
enhanced management of natural resources.
Included in the institutional arrangements is the setting up of a Savannah Resource Management Center
(SRMC) already underway whose role is to coordinate activities under the project and work with rural
communities, government and nongovernmental institutions to identify, plan and support programs for
sustainable resource management. Resources allocated to the Savanna Resource Management Component
of NRMP I total US$9.40 million. Additionally, a number of other programs and projects support these
objectives in the savanna zone. Danish aid, DANIDA, is investing US$2.10 million in promotion of
traditional energy resources, the Netherlands is investing US$4.80 million in the development infrastructure
of Mole National Park.
Global Environment Objectives and Benefits
The global environment objective is to conserve the biodiversity of the Ghanaian savanna, to sustain the
availability of medicinal plants, and to protect the traditional agro-biodiversity of the zone. The project
also has components and cross-links to combating land degradation and desertification.
A wide range of tree shrubs and mostly annual and perennial grasses, typical savanna vegetation occur in
the Northern Savanna. Over 1,300 plant species have been recorded and the trees in particular are
threatened from over exploitation and uncontrolled burning. As in most countries, the best known elements
of the fauna are larger mammals and birds. The indigenous mammals of Ghana number approximately 225
- 62 -



species, of which about 100 inhabit the savanna and dry forest zones. Although most mammals
characteristic of the savanna and dry woodlands were historically widespread, extensive pressure from land
use changes and land degradation, and intensive pressure from hunting, have extirpated natural populations
of most game species (e.g. ungulates and carnivores) from large areas. Within lesser-known vertebrate
groups some species, for instance, endemic mole rats and amphibians, are at significant risk due to land
degradation resulting from fire and poor land, water and soil management practices. About 300
Afrotropical endemic bird species occur in the savanna and an additional 100 Paleoarctic species use the
Ghanaian savanna as critical resting places on their migratory routes, 171 butterfly species are found in
savanna zone habitats (Guinea savanna, 87 species; Sudan savanna, 55 species; southern dry forests, 29
species).
The northern savannas also harbor indigenous land races of important food crops. Future efforts aimed at
improving production and drought resistance of crops cultivated here would draw heavily on the gene pool
of native/wild crop varieties. Preserving these genetic stocks would require specific interventions to ensure
that these native/wild varieties are not completely replaced by introduced varieties or lost through
inappropriate land use practices. The savanna woodlands also have an ameliorative effect on the local
climate and constitute a natural barrier to the desiccating harmattan winds from the Sahara, thus helping to
maintain a favorable climate for agricultural production in the south.
Since savanna ecosystems cover about 50 percent of the total area of Africa and a project of this type has
not been attempted anywhere in the savanna, the lessons learned from this project would be important to the
conservation of biodiversity in the whole savanna zone. The opportunities provided by NRMP I and later
II and III and the Savanna Resource Management Center (SRMC) at Tamale established under NRMP I
make Ghana an ideal location for this activity.
To achieve its global environment objectives, the GEF alternative aims to (i) develop a capacity to assess
and conserve biodiversity in the region, help in the creation of a regional policy framework to achieve these
goals and build a monitoring and evaluation system for biodiversity conservation in the region, (ii) develop
and implement comnmunity based biodiversity management plans for selected areas in the region, including
pilot activities to arrest land degradation, promote community woodlot development and ex-situ pilot
cultivation trials of threatened medicinal plants used in human and animal health; (iii) community-based
awareness, conservation and management initiatives, including field gene banks of medicinal plants and
traditional threatened agro-biodiversity, community based action plans and a comprehensive public
education and mass awareness campaign.
The GEF Alternative
Under the GEF alternative, Ghana would carry out the ongoing programs of savanna sustainable resource
management but would greatly enhance biodiversity conservation by the following additional measures: (a)
creating a regional focus, knowledge base and policy on biodiversity conservation, (b) defining the existing
biodiversity in and outside reserves and developing management plans to sustain this, including the
identification of additional priority areas and corridors for conservation, (c) creating community based
resource use systems that conserve biodiversity and improve production and health, (d) providing a special
focus on medicinal plants and developing commnunity based sustainable use of this resource, (e) preserving
the traditional agro-biodiversity of the zone for future development of these genetic resources, and (f)
developing a long-term professional and community capacity to maintain these programs and products.
To achieve these objectives the following additional activities would be financed under the GEF alternative
(a) the building of community and professional capacity for biodiversity conservation and monitoring and
- 63 -



evaluation of progress US$1.90 million, (b) the design and implementation at more effective management
plans for biodiversity conservation in and around the major forest and wild life reserves and in newly
identified areas of specially important corridors of biodiversity, including medicinal plants US$3.30
million, (c) the development of community based conservation and management initiatives and the design
and delivery of a comprehensive community and stakeholder awareness program US$2.40 million. The
estimated cost of current programs is a minimum          of US$20.2 million; the cost of the GEF altemative is
US$27.80 million.
Incremental Costs
The incremental costs needed to achieve the global environmental benefits is estimated to be US$8.51
million, of which GEF funding is request for US$7.60 million. The table below summarizes the assessment
of incremental costs:
Component               Cost Category       Cost (US$ M)          Domestic Benefit              Global Benefit
Essential Institutional      Baseline                   2.0**         Essential organization for
Development for SRMC                                                  natural resource development
of region
Policy Framework             GEF Altemative              0.3                                    Enhanced conservation of
and Capacity Building                                    1.7                                    biodiversity in savannas through
policy development, monitoring and
evaluation
Increment                   1.9
On reserve savanna resource  Baseline                  16.7*, *       More sustainable supply of
management fuelwood                                                   woodfuel and natural resource
production NAP on                                                     products
Deserbification
Increment                   3.3
Biodiversity Conservation and  GEF Altemative            2.7                                    Protection of hot spots of
Management                                                                                      biodiversity, reduction in land
degradation, carbon sequestration.
sustainability of medicinal plants
and traditional agro-biodiversity
Biodiversity Conservation and  Baseline                 1.5**         Natural resource products
Medicinal Plants                                                      available for local food and
health benefits
Community based conservation  GEF Altemabive             2.3                                    Gene pools of medicinal plants
and management initiatives                                                                      maintained and sustained,
agro-biodiversity preserved, long
term capacity and awareness for
biodiversity conservation
established
Increment                   2.4
TOTAL                        Baseline                    20.2
GEF Altemative              27.8
Incremental Cost            7.6
* This includes a component of NRMPI, Danish, Netherlands and WFP programs.
** Baseline costs for the Project include 2 years of NRMP II (overlap with GEF High Forest) and NRMP III.
Background on the NRMP
The Government of Ghana (GOG) is implementing a country wide, ten year adaptable lending program, the
Natural Resources Management Program (NRMP), whose objective is to protect, rehabilitate and
sustainably manage national land, forest and wildlife resources and thereby increase the incomes of rural
cormmunities who own these resources.
The full NRMP program is addressing issues of conservation, enhancement and sustainable utilization of
- 64 -



Ghana's land, forest, savanna woodland and wildlife resources in full and active consultation with the rural
communities and institutions. However certain critical aspects of savanna resource management such as
agro-biodiversity and medicinal plant species management, use and conservation are not being addressed by
NRMP, hence Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project (NSBCP).
B. Economic Analysis
Farm Models
Agro- Biodiversity Practice
The major economic activity of the communities within and around the reserves for whom the
project is being designed is farming.
Bush fallow and compound farming are two distinct traditional farming systems in the area. The common
crops cultivated are sorghum, millet, rice, maize, yams, cassava, groundnuts, cowpea, tomatoes, onions and
other vegetable,s both as food and cash crops. The communities depend on simple tools such as the hoe
and the cutlass for farming.
Under the bush burning system, fields are cultivated once or twice and allowed to lie fallow while
new lands are opened up by cutting down trees and burming down bushes which contribute to the
destruction of reserves. Soils are left vulnerable to erosion and eventual degradation. Under the compound
farming system, small pieces of land are cultivated intensively and continuously from year to year and,
without the benefits of improved farming practices, leads to soil erosion, lower soil fertility, and loss of
vegetation cover.
Under the project, the communities practicing bush buming would be provided with incentives to
abandon the shifting cultivation method and stay on the same piece of land. They would adopt improved
farming methods such as controlled bush buming, tuming the debris into compost to be used with other
organic manure, mulching and adopting agroforestry techniques where they could intercrop fields with
economically viable tree crops to improve farm yield and prospects for biodiversity conservation.
Farmers using a compound farming system, would also be provided with incentives to use compost
and other organic manure, practice mulching and adopting agro-forestry practices whereby they would
intercrop their fields with income-generating tree crops, e.g., mangoes and cashews to supplement income
and conserve biodiversity.
Farming model
To illustrate the incremental benefits likely to accrue to the farmer, two farm models have been
developed. One is based on the scenario of the farmer continuing with his present cropping system (without
project, i.e., without any project intervention) and comparing this financial situation and the effects of his
farming activities on biodiversity conservation; and the other scenario is for the farmer to adopt a cropping
system which has been recommended with the project where the farmer would adopt environmentally
friendly and biodiversity conservation practices.
Financial Analysis of the Two Farm Models
Assumptions
Discount rate of 45 percent
- 65 -



Analysis period is 10 years
With respect to the Farm Model with the mango, the analysis shows a positive cash flow of Cedis
1.15 million in the fourth year rising to Cedis 2.65 million in the eighth to the tenth year. The first three
years however show negative cash flows because these years represent the establishment phase during
which there are no yields from the mango crop and therefore no incomes.
Using the prevailing cost of capital of 45 percent and using the discounted cash flow method, the
project shows a Net Present Value (NPV) of Cedis 527,000 and Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of about 65
percent indicating that the return on the project is in excess of the cost of capital.
Regarding the Farm Model with the cashew, the analysis shows relatively lower positive cash
flows were achieved. The first three years which represent the establishment phase during which there are
no yields from the cashew crop and therefore no incomes show negative cash flows as reflected in the
model.
The discounted method of project appraisal give a Net Present Value (NPV) of Cedis 80,000 and
an Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 52 percent, which is also in excess of the cost of capital.
On the basis of the analysis, both the Farm Models with the mango and cashew give higher return
to the farmer with the project using biodiversity conservation fanning practices than without the project
where the farmer uses current and entrenched traditional mode of farming which are environmentally
degrading. Though both models (with mango and with cashew) are financially beneficial, the model with
the mango is more feasible.
-66 -



Table 1: FARM MODELS
FARM MODEL WITH MANGO
Amount in 0'000                  _
Farm size
4 Ha
Year                              1        2       3       4       5              7__   8       9      10
I INCREMENTAL COST ON
FARM
a With Project + Mango         2,999   2,749   2,74     2,749  2,74   2,74    2,74  2,749   2,69    2,699
B Without Project              2,399   2,399    2,39    2,399  2,39   2.39    2,39  2,399   2,39    2,399
2 NET INCREMENTAL COST          600      350     350     350     350    350    350    350     350    350
3 INCREMENTAL REVENUE                                                                     I
a With Project + Mango         5,055    5,055   5,05    6,555  7,155   7,455  7,755  8,055  8,055   8,055
b Without Project              5,055   5,055    5,05'   5,055  5,055  5,055   5,055 5,055   5,05'   5,055
4 INCREMENTAL REVENUE            0         0       (    1,50(  2,100  2,400   2,70(  3,000  3,00(   3,000
5 NET INCOME STREAM             -600    -350    -35     1,15(  1,75   2,05    2,35  2,650   2,65    2,650
Discount rate, 45%              0.45    =                                       _
PV                              -414    -166    -115      26     273    221     174   136      94     65
NPV                             527
Financial rate of return        65%
- 67 -



FARM MODEL WITH
CASHEW
Amount in 0'000
Farm size
2 Ha                             _                      .                                   _
Year                                1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9     10
I INCREMENTAL COST ON
FARM                                                      .    _.__
a With Project + Cashew         2,649  2,549   2,699    2,549  2,549   2,549   2,549   2,549  2,549  2,549
b Without Project               2.399  2,399   2,399    2,399  2,399   2,399   2,399   2,399  2,399  2,399
2 NET INCREMENTAL COST           250     150     300     150     150     150     150    150     150    150
3 INCREMENTAL REVENUE
a With Project + Cashew         5,055  5,055   5,055    5,615  5,755   5,895   6,035   6,175  6,175  6,175
b Without Project               5.055  5,055   5,055    5,055  5,055   5,055   5,055   5,055  5,055  5,055
4 INCREMENTAL REVENUE              0       0       0     560    700      840     980   1,120  1,120   1,120
5 NET INCOME STREAM             -250    -150    -300     410     550     690     830    970     970    970
Discount rate, 45%               0.45
PV                               -172   -71      -98      93      86      74      62     50      34     24
NPV                               80
Financial rate of return        52%     =
Source od Data: Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Year 2000)
- 68 -



Table 2: FARM MODEL - PRODUCTIONAND INCOME BUDGET
PRODUCTION COST
Without Project
Crops                     Maize    Millet  Sorghum       Rice  Groundnut Cowpea      Yam     Total
Farm size, ha               0.5      0.2         0.2      0.5      0.2        0.2     0.2        2
Requirements
Amount in 0'000
Establishment/maint.
Cost
Sub-total                  200        98        120      480       166         95     160
B. Inputs
Sub-total                    16        9          9       70        48          7     480
C. Tools
Sub-total                   35        111        11       110       40         10       6
TOTAL                      251       118        140      660       254        112     646
D. Contingencies, 10%      25.1     11.8         14       66      25.4       11.2    64.6
GRAND TOTAL               276.1    129.8        154      726      279.4     123.2   710.6    2399.1
With Project
Crops                    Maize      Millet   Sorghum    Rice  Groundnut Cowpea       Yam       Total
Farn size, ha               0.5        0.2        0.2     0.5       0.2       0.2      0.2
R'qments
Amount in 0'000
Establishment/maint cost
Sub-total                  200         98         120    480        166       95       160      1319
B. Inputs
Sub-total                   16          9           9     70        48         7       480       639
C. Tools
Sub-total                   35         111         11     110       40        10         6       223
TOTAL                      251        118         14C    660       254       112       646     2181
D. Contingencies, 10%      25.1       11.8         14     66       25.4      11.2     64.6     218.1
GRAND TOTAL               276.1      129.8        154    726      279.4     123.2    710.6    2399.1
- 69 -



Mango
Amount in '000
Year                  1      2        3       4      5       6       7       8       9      10
Establishment cos
600
labor and inputs
Maintenance &
harvesting cost            350     350      350    350     350     350     350     350     350
Total              600     350     350      350    350     350     350     350     350     350
Cashew
Amount in 0'000                            _
Year                  1      2        3       4      5       6       7       8       9      10
Establishment cost
250
labor and inputs
Maintenance &               150     150     150    150     150     150     150     150     150
harvesting cost
Total              250      150    300      150    150     150     150     150     150     150
- 70 -



INCOME
Without Project
Crops               Maize   Millet Sorghum    Rice Ground   Cowpea      Yam
nut
Farm size,ha          0.5     0.2      0.2     0.5     0.2     0.2       0.2
Av.yield/ha, Mt       1.1    0.75    0.825       1    1.05   0.375     6.375
Total yield, Mt      0.55    0.15    0.165     0.5    0.21   0.075     1.275
Av. Price/Mt, '000  1100    1200     1100    1300    800     1100      2500
Total income, '000   605     180    181.5    650     168     82.5    3187.5  5054.5
With Project
Crops               Maize Millet  Sorghum  Rice    Ground  Cowpea   Yam
nut .
Farm size,ha          0.5     0.2      0.2     0.5     0.2     0.2       0.2
Av.yield/ha, Mt       1.1    0.75    0.825       1    1.05   0.375     6.375
Total yield, Mt      0.55    0.15    0.165     0.5    0.21   0.075     1.275
Av. Price/Mt, '000  1100    1200     1100    1300    800     1100      2500
Total income, '000   605     180    181.5    650     168      82.5   3187.5  5054.5
Mango
Year                    1      2        3       4       5        6         7       8      9     10
Farm size,ha            1       I        I           1       1        1        1      1      1
Av.yield/ha, Mt         0      0        0       5       7        8         9      10     10     10
Total yield, Mt         0       0       0       5       7        8         9      10     10     10
Av. Price/Mt, '000   300     300     300     300     300      300       300     300    300    300
Total income, '000     0      0        0     1500   2100     2400      2700    3000   3000   3000
Cashew
Year                    1      2       3       4       5         6       7        8      9     10
Farm size,ha            I       I      I        I       1        1       1        1      1      1
Av.yield/ha, Mt         0      0       0      0.8       1       1.2     1.4     1.6    1.6    1.6
Total yield, Mt         0      0       0      0.8       1       1.2     1.4     1.6    1.6    1.6
Av. Price/Mt, '000   700     700    700      700    700       700     700      700    700    700
Total income, O'000     0      0       0      560    700       840     980     1120   1120   1120
Source of Data: Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Year 2000)
- 71 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GHANA: Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
Years Ending
2007
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Y Year1 I    Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4   | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.7        0.8       0.8       0.7        0.8       0.6       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.3        0.3       0.3        0.4       0.4        0.4      0.0
Total Project Costs          3.0        1.1       1.1       1.1        1.2       1.0       0.0
Total Financing              3.0        1.1       1.1        1.1       1.2        1.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Govemment                 0.3        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.2       0.1       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiersGEF          2.7        1.0       1.1        0.9       1.0       0.9       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     3.0        1.1       1.2        1.0       1.2       1.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
The total Govermment contribution of about US$910,700 includes about an estimated US$884,000 in
taxes.
- 72 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GHANA: Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
Procurement
Ghana's Procurement Environment
1.     The World Bank conducted Country Procurement Assessment Reports (CPAR) in 1985 and 1996,
a consultant report by Mr. Gosta Westring's in 1997 and a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR)
in 1998. These reports cite: (i) lack of a comprehensive legal framework, (ii) lack of a uniform and codified
procurement procedures and regulations, (iii) weak capacity of procurement staff, and (iv) loose
institutional and organizational arrangements for collective decision making in awarding of contracts, as
major factors contributing to weaknesses in the public procurement practices. The reports, however, were
not able to quantify the public procurement by various methods and by institutions. Some of the
unacceptable features in the current public procurement practices highlighted in the reports are (i) extensive
use of sole method for selection of consultants, (ii) extensive and repetitive use of shopping procedures,
often including same firms, (iii) unclear procedures for opening of bids and criteria for bid evaluation and
contract award, (iv) post contract negotiations, (v) mandatory use of the state insurance company for goods
contracts, and (vi) over-centralization of procurement in Accra. The reports recommend a comprehensive
procurement reform for Ghana. This recommendation was also endorsed in the 1999 CDF initiative
document for Ghana.
2.     Ghana's procurement procedures and regulations are scattered in various legal documents and
circulars, which are often not clear, contradictory and subject to misinterpretations. There are no
mechanisms for monitoring procurement and for dealing with complaints. The current procurement system
does not guarantee economy, efficiency and transparency in public procurement. It is a fair conclusion that
the Government does not have a comprehensive procurement code for the procurement of goods, works and
services by Government ministries and agencies. For Donor-financed projects, for works and goods
contracts below ICB thresholds and for selection of consultants, most entities follow the Bank's guidelines
as the official procurement procedure. The Government has realized there is a need for the country to
review and reform its public procurement practices. The reformed practices would entail adoption of
rationalized and codified public procurement procedures and regulations, applicable to all public
procurement entities and ensure value for money. The purpose of the public procurement reforms is
therefore to streamline the procedures and regulations for procurement of goods, works, and services, and
establish an effective monitoring system in order to ensure proper utilization and developmental impact of
public resources.
3.     The on-going procurement reforms are financed by an IDA  credit under Public Finance
Management Technical Assistance Project. In 1999 the Government established, in the Ministry of
Finance, a Procurement Policy Oversight Group [PPOG] to oversee the process of the preparation and
implementation of public procurement reforms in Ghana. The PPOG prepared a TOR for preparing a
Procurement Reforms Proposal and selected consultants to prepare it. In order to ensure that the PRP is not
prepared as a desk exercise, the TOR required the Consultants to work in close liaison with stakeholders in
public and private sectors, paying due attention to consultation, participation and ownership. A draft Public
Procurement Act is ready and it is expected that the new procurement code would be implemented by
December 31, 2001.
- 73 -



4.    In the absence of a national procurement code, the procurement procedures to be followed will be
fully described in the Project Implementation Manual. Registration/Classification of contractors may be
used for establishing bidder qualification or for preparing a list for use under quotation procedure but not
as criteria for bidding or for award of contract.
Use of Bank Guidelines
5.     All works and goods financed under the GEF grant would be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultants will be selected in accordance with the
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and as
revised September 1997 and January 1999. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will include:
(a) an explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) national advertising with public
bid opening; (c) award to the lowest evaluated responsive and qualified bidder and (d) foreign bidders
would not be precluded from participation in NCB.
6.     The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all ICB (and with appropriate
amendments for all NCB) for works and goods. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) would
be used for all consulting assignments. Less competitive bidding and selection procedures should not be
used as an expedient to by-pass more competitive methods and fractionating of large procurements into
smaller ones solely should not be done to allow the use of less competitive methods. The detailed
procedures to be followed will be described in the Project Implementation Manual.
Advertising
7.     A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the UN Development
Business as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would show
all outstanding ICB and all consulting services estimated to cost US$200,000 or more. Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB procedures
and for consultant contracts with an estimated cost of US$100,000 or more to obtain expressions of
interest (EOI) prior to the preparation of the shortlist. SPNs will as (a minimum) be published in a
newspaper of wide national circulation. Consultant contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more would
be advertised in Development Business. Sufficient time would be allowed (not less than 30 days) for NCB
and for EOI to allow adequate time to obtain documents respond appropriately.
Procurement capacity
8.     Procurement under the project would be the responsibility of the staff of the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) of the MLF. A Procurement Capacity Assessment of the PCU was done under the Natural
Resource Management Project and has been updated under the appraisal for this project. The summary
assessment shows a medium risk.
9.     The PCU already has staff who are implementing the IDA/GEF financed Natural Resources
Management Project (NRMP) and SRMP and are fully familiar with Bank procurement and consultants
selection guidelines and procedures. Support will be provided by the Procurement Specialist of EPA, one of
the implementing agencies under the project. Both officials are familiar with Bank procurement procedures,
as they are responsible for procurement under previous and on-going Bank-financed projects, including
NRMP, GERMP, SRMP, FRMP, Gateway Project and Coastal Wetlands Management Project. However,
since the Program Administrator is a contracted staff, MLF should initiate action to mainstream the
procurement function and ensure that staff of MLF are identified for procurement training after which they
should be assigned the procurement function.
- 74 -



Procurement Plans
10.    MLF will prepare a Global Procurement Plan (GPP) for the whole project, and a Detailed
Procurement Plan (DPP) for the first two years of the project showing contract packages, and for each
package its estimated cost, procurement method and processing times for key activities till completion. The
GPP and the DPP will be part of the Project Implementation Manual that will be completed before
effectiveness. The Manual will contain the project workplans from which the procurement schedules would
be derived. The plans will be agreed with IDA. Three months prior to the start of each subsequent fiscal
year, MLF will submit up-dated versions of the GPP, and the annual DPPs in respect of the following year.
Each quarter MLF will submit to the Bank a procurement monitoring report as part of the Project
Management Report (PMR).
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
11.    The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) of the MLF will be responsible for procurement planning
and processing of works and goods contracts and the selection of consultants. Procurement of small
contracts for miscellaneous items of supplies [often required for operation and maintenance] and
constructions would be delegated to the SMRC who would procure them following simplified shopping
procedures under the direct supervision of the NRMP Program Administrator. As part of decentralization
process, MLF will build capacity at SRMC so that, in addition to implementation of project activities,
financial and procurement management would be delegated to the SRMC. PCU will track the accumulation
of contracts under each procurement method and will consolidate the information so as to ensure that the
aggregate amounts under the non-ICB procurement methods are not exceeded.
Scope of procurement and procurement methods
12.    Works (estimated to cost US$0.36 million) would consist of small contracts for rehabilitation of
the offices of the SRMC, fire observation posts  and ranger camps in reserves. No ICB contracts are
expected under the project, as contracts would be less than US$100,000. These contracts shall be procured
using NCB procedures. Very small contracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent may be
procured by way of soliciting quotations through written invitations from not less than three qualified
contractors. Registration/Classification of contractors may be used to identify contractors for such very
small contracts. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, basic specifications, the
required completion date, a simple form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawings [where
applicable]. In all cases the award of contract shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
13.    Goods would consist of vehicles [estimated to cost US$0.42 million] and other goods items
[estimated to cost US$1.19 m] which include agricultural inputs, office, laboratory and field equipment,
communication equipment, fumiture and computers. To the extent possible, goods that could be procured
under one supplier would be grouped into contract packages, and packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$100,000 or more would be procured under ICB procedures. Procurement of goods packages
estimated to cost more than US$30,000 but less than US$100,000 [up to an aggregate amount of
US$700,000] would be procured by NCB. Goods packages estimated to cost less than US$30,000 [up to
an aggregate amount of US$400,000] would be procured by shopping on the basis of comparison of
quotations from at least three eligible and qualified suppliers. Requests for such quotations would include a
clear description and quantity of the goods; as well as requirements for delivery time and point of delivery.
14.    Agricultural inputs may be procured through shopping. Spare parts and accessories [up to an
aggregate amount of US$100,000], which are of proprietary nature, may be procured under contracts
negotiated directly with the manufactures/suppliers or their authorized agents.
- 75 -



15.    Consulting Services (estimated to cost US$2.6 million] including the support to implementation of
the Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan {approximately US$200,000} would consist of various
studies and technical assistance to be carried out by both national and international consultants. As a rule,
consulting firms for all assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more would be
selected though Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. Assignments estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$200,000 or more would be advertised for EOI in Development Business (UNDB) and in
at least one newspaper of wide national circulation. In addition, EOI for specialized assignments may be
advertised in an international newspaper or magazine. In the case of assignments estimated to cost between
US$100,000 and US$200,000, the assignment would be advertised nationally. The shortlist of firms for
assignments estimated to cost less than US$200,000 may be made up entirely of national consultants.
Foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration. Consultant services
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$30,000 may be contracted by comparing the qualifications
of consultants. Auditors and engineers would be selected using Least-Cost-Selection procedures. In case of
assignments requiring individual consultants, the selection would follow the procedures stipulated in
Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.
16.    Training programs and workshops [estimated to cost US$1.8 million] including the support to
implementation of the Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan {approximately US$180,000} would be
packaged in the project's workplans and budget and items therein procured using appropriate methods. The
Bank would review and clear training packages as found appropriate.
IDA Review
17.   All goods contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more and works contracts estimated to cost
US$100,000 or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review in accordance with the procedures in
Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines for Goods and works. All contracts awarded on basis of direct
contracting or sole source basis would require prior review and clearance of the Bank.
18.    The TOR for all consulting assignments irrespective of value of the assignment and all single
source selection would be subject to Bank prior review. Consultancy contracts with firns with estimated
value of US$100,000 or more, and consultancy contracts with individuals estimated value of US$50,000 or
more would be subject to prior review by the Bank in accordance with the procedures in Appendix I of the
Consultants Guidelines.
19.    All training programs, seminars, workshops etc. would be subject to the Bank's review.
20.    Contracts, which are not subject to prior review, would be selectively reviewed by the Bank during
project implementation and would be govemed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to
the relevant Guidelines. NCB documents for works and goods will be cleared with the Bank as part of the
work plan.
Contract Management and Expenditure Reports
21.    As part of the PMR, MLF would submit contract management and expenditure information in
quarterly reports to IDA.
- 76 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB           Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00            0.26           0.10          0.00        0.36
(0.00)           (0.24)        (0.09)        (0.00)       (0.33)
2. Goods                              0.42             1.05          0.13          0.00         1.60
(0.37)           (0.93)        (0.12)        (0.00)       (1.42)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          2.60          0.00         2.60
Consulting                           (0.00)           (0.00)         (2.20)        (0.00)      (2.20)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00           1.80         0.00         1.80
Training                             (0.00)           (0.00)         (1.72)        (0.00)      (1.72)
Operating Cost                        0.00             0.00          2.15          0.00         2.15
(0.00)           (0.00)        (1.93)        (0.00)       (1.93)
Total                              0.42             1.31           6.78         0.00         8.51
(0.37)           (1.17)         (6.06)       (0.00)       (7.60)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
Note: Included in the total project costs are allocations of US$180,000 for Training and Awareness Raising, and
US$200,000 for Consulting Services, earmarked for the implementation of the Environmental and Social
Mitigation Plan.
- 77 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  QBS     SFB     LCS      CQ    Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              0.60   0.00    0.00    0.10    0.20    0.00    0.00     0.90
(0.60)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0. 1 0)  (0.20)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.90)
B. Individuals        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.70    0.00     1.70
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.70)  (0.00)  (1.70)
Total  0.60    0.00    0.00   0.10     0.20   1.70    0.00     2.60
(0.60)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0. 1 0)  (0.20)  (1.70)  (0.00)  (2.60)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 78 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                      >=30,000                  NCB             Contracts over $100,000
Below US$ 30,000          Price quotation             None
All values           Direct contracting        All contracts
2. Goods                 US$ 100,000 or above            ICB                 All contracts
>=US$ 30,000 - <US$             NCB                     None
100,000
All values           Direct contracting        All contracts
Below US$ 30,000            Shopping                  None
3. Services              US$ 100,000 or above           QCBS                 All contracts
Below 100,000 firms   QCBS/LCS/CV/individual         Only TOR
Below 50,000 individuals     CV/individual             Only TOR
All values             Single source           All contracts
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$3.00 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 3 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
All single source consulting assignments and all TORs for consulting services irrespective of value are
subject to prior review.
LIB will be used only if there is a limited number of suppliers.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 79 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Goods, Equipment & Vehicles                 1.40                  100 percent of Foreign
95 percent of Local
Civil works                                 0.38                       90 percent
Consultants Services & Training             3.55                      100 percent
Operating Cost                              1.65                      100 percent
Unallocated                                 0.62
Total Project Costs                         7.60
Total                                       7:60
The proceeds of the GEF Grant would be disbursed over a six-year period. A period of four months after
closing date would be allowed to make disbursements for expenditures incurred until the closing date of the
GEF Grant.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures under contracts and purchase orders below US$100,000 equivalent each, for works, goods
and consulting firms, and US$50,000 for consultant services (individuals), training and incremental costs
for which disbursements would be based on statement of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation
for SOEs would be retained by the Grantee (GOG) for review by IDA missions and extemal auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account for the Ministry of Lands and Forestry would be
established and operated in US$ at a commercial bank/Bank of Ghana, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the IDA. Upon grant effectiveness, a sum of US$400,000 would be deposited by the GEF
into this account. Further deposits would be made into this account against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documentation.
Financial Management
Executive Summary
The objective of the Financial Management Capacity Assessment is to determiine whether the implementing
agency which has been identified as being responsible for the financial management under the NSBCP have
adequate and acceptable financial management capability to undertake the assigned tasks.  The
arrangements include the agency's accounting system of recording and reporting, internal controls and
auditing.
This capacity assessment was carried out at the Ministry of Lands and Forestry (MLF), head office in
- 80 -



Accra, by whom the special accounts of the project will be managed and the Savanna Resource
Management Center (SRMC), where most transactions for the project activities will take place and will
also manage significant part of the project's resources.
The agency's financial management arrangements are considered acceptable since they are capable of
collecting all relevant information and recording correctly all transactions undertaken by the project, the
system also assures the adequacy of maintenance of underlying records or support documents which form
the basis for the preparation of regular and reliable financial statements and other similar reports,
safeguard the project's assets, and are subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
The finance and accounts unit of MLF, which is currently managing the Natural Resource Management
Project (NRMP), a World Bank funded project, would have overall financial management responsibility for
the NSBCP.
The accounts unit at MLF is headed by a qualified accountant, and assisted by 4 other accounting staff
with various levels of qualifications. All the staff has been trained in the World Bank disbursement
procedures and performance under the current project is satisfactory.
The unit has an accounting manual approved by the World Bank, which documents the accounting system
and reporting requirements under NRMP. The computerization of the accounting system has just been
completed and tested and in use for the NRMP, and would be modified to incorporate activities to be
covered under this new project without any risk of misallocation?
The Savanna Resource Management Center (SRMC) was established in Tamale with implementation
responsibility for the Savanna sub-components of NRMP. Although overall financial management
responsibility lie with finance and accounts unit at MLF head office, the accounts unit of SRMC would
oversee the day to day disbursement and accounting for the project resources at Tamale.
The accounts unit at SRMC is headed by a Project Accountant, with degree in accounting and assisted by
two other staff, one of similar qualifications and the second with lower. The head of this unit has been
transferred from the head office to strengthen the office in Tamale The planned computerization of the
accounting system at SRMC will be reviewed to incorporate activities of the new project.
Based on the assessment of the financial management system in place under the implementing arrangements
proposed, there will be the need for minor additions and modifications to the Ministry's present financial
systems as indicated in the action plan.
Country Issues
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has just been conducted for Ghana. This
document clearly identifies the main accountabilities issue in Ghana, which include;
i)     Fragmented legal framework and lack of enforcement of existing penalties for noncompliance;
ii)   Ineffective and inefficient intemal auditing functions;
iii)   Weak human resource capacity because of poor public sector remuneration;
- 81 -



Summary of Risk Analysis
Risk                                  Risk Rating Risk Mitigation Measure
Inherent Risks:                                  Govemment is modemizing its systems. In
Country                                        addition it needs to institute measures that ensure
a) Non compliance of statutory regulations  S    the update and enforcement of penalties for non
and non enforcement of penalties.                compliance.
b) Inadequacy of legal framework to regulate  H  Govemment is to seek donor assistance to
internal audit functions in country.             address this weakness. More work needed here.
Overall Inherent Risk               S
Control Risk
Staffmng of the Agency
a) inadequate human resource capacity of the     The project will supplement by the recruiting
required govt financial staff to manage   N      qualified staff to address this weakness.
project.
Funds Flow
Delays in accounting for funds transferred to  M  The computerization of the SRMC accounting
SRMC resulting in the slow down of further       system should minimize this problem
releases.
Internal Audit
No professional intemal audit (IA) function.  S  The project has outlined in its accounting manual
Govemment IA is limited to pre-auditing,         an expenditure approval processes which ensures
with no added value.                             that only legitimate expenditures will be paid for
by the project. The project will continue to rely
on the external auditors for recommendation to
improve their fnancial accounting systems. A
system will be put in place which ensures that all
such recommendations are implemented and
monitored.
External Audit
Likely project audit reports will be submitted  M  TOR will require that audits are submitted end o
late.                                            May. Will tie the timely submission to project
management performance. Hiring of private
auditors, ensuring the timely closure of accounts,
appointment of auditors upfront for two years
Reporting and Monitoring
Delays in the submission of project and   M      TTL will tie the issue of No Objections to the
monitoring reports.                              submission of these reports.
Information Systems
Computerized systems are not fully used due  M   All staff will be trained, and a program put in
to poor training, and inadequate support.        place to train new staff when ever they join.
Have a maintenance service contract in place.
Overall Control Risk                  M
-82 -



Strength and Weaknesses
The significant strengths that provides a basis of reliance of the project financial management system
include;
i)    the presence of a qualified accountant as head of the finance and accounts unit with overall
responsibilities for project financial management;
ii)   the presence of an accounting and financial procedures manual which have been used to manage
the on-going NRMP;
iii)   accounting staff have all received training in World Bank disbursement procedures;
iv)    an introduced accounting software for use, with capability to produce project monitoring reports.
Implementing Entities & Arrangements
The SRMC sub-committee of the PCC established under the NRMP in the MLF (Accra) will supervise and
monitor overall implementation. The NSBCP Coordinator will lead in the field implementation, assisted by
subject matter specialists from the relevant ministries departments and agencies (MDAs).
At the regional and district levels, the various MDAs, namely; FSD, WD, MOFA, EPA, MOH, and CBOs;
will collaborate with NSBCP towards implementation. The project implementation will be coordinated
from Tamale where the SRMC is located.
Funds Flow Arrangements
The Project would open a Ghanaian Cedi (0) account at Tamale in which releases from the Govenmuent of
Ghana Counterpart funds would be transferred into regularly. As the project disburses funds from this
account, reimbursements would be made from the Special Account through the submission of Statement of
Expenditure for eligible expenses. In the case of expenditure on consultancy services training and
workshops to which No Objection' have been received from the World Bank, disbursements would be done
centrally and directly to the third party beneficiaries. Where the contract has been contracted in Tamale, the
details would be sent to Accra for payments to be effected. In such cases payments can be made directly
from the SA.
Activities expected to be implemented under NSBCP for the year will be part of the approved work plan of
the project. On the basis of the plan the Tamale Office will prepare a Statement for Funds Requirement
(SFR) for six month (2 quarters) showing monthly requirements.
The attachment to the SFR will include details of the type of activity under the project to be undertaken, the
expected output and the timing of the output. On the basis of this the equivalent amount from the project
account (GOG counterpart funds account) would be transferred to the Tamale project accounts.
The amounts disbursed to effect payments on eligible expenditures will be documented in the form of
Statement of Expenditures, and forwarded to Accra for reimbursement from the SA. The documents to
support the SOE should include the bank statement and its reconciliation statement, and a statement which
compares the period budget to actual and explanations for any discrepancies. The request must be signed
by both the Coordinator and project accountant.
The documents would be maintained in the Tamale office for review by future Bank missions and for audit
purposes.
- 83 -



Auditing Arrangements
Independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank would carry out the audit of NSBCP. The
selection of auditors shall be on competitive basis in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and would be in
place by effectiveness of the project. It was agreed at Negotiations that as an Effectiveness Condition the
Recipient would appoint independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01(b)(i) of the Trust Fund Grant
Agreement.
The project accounts, SOEs and the special account would be audited by the selected independent auditors
who will be acceptable to the World Bank. The auditors' reports and opinions in respect of each of these
statements of accounts would be furnished to the World Bank and GEF within six months of the close of
each fiscal year.
Reporting and Monitoring
The Bank has introduced a new initiative, the Financial Management Initiative (FINMI). FINMI requires
projects to prepare quarterly projects monitoring reports (PMRs) in the areas of finance, procurements
including contract details and project progress.
The Quarterly Financial Reports;  would consist of Sources of project funds and their Uses of
Funds, statement of Uses of Funds by Project Activity, Project Cash Withdrawals, Special Account
Reconciliation statement and a six months Project Cash Forecast;
Quarterly Project Progress Report;  would consist of Output Monitoring Report on contract
Management and on Unit of Output by project activity;
Quarterly Procurement Management Report; would consist of procurement process monitoring for
goods and works and that for consultants' services, and contract Expenditure reports for goods, works and
consultants' services.
Computerization of the accounting system of NRMP has been completed under the on-going phase I and
PMRs can be generated by the system. The first set of PMRs is to be submnitted to the Bank at the end of
the third quarter of 2001. The Ministry's accounting system which would be used for the implementation of
NSBCP has therefore capacity to generate the PMRs, the project would be required to produce the PMRs
at the start of project implernentation. The content and format of the financial reports of the PMR was
agreed at negotiations and is included in the Project Implementation Manual.
-84 -



Action Plan Aereed at Appraisal
Action Step                Due Date     Responsibility or  Date Action
Action By       Completed
1.   Updating Financial and Accounting  January 31, 2002  Financial
Manual including new chart of                      Controller
accounts for NSBCP activities, &
Decentralized Flow of Funds
arrangements
2.  Review and Comments by WB on New February 15, 2002  FMS/QK &
Manual                                              LOAGI
3.  Training of District and Regional level During February  Financial
staff who will handle accounts   2002               Controller
4.   Adaptation of PMR format to                        Financial
NSBCP project.                                     Controller
Financial Reports               October 15, 2001                  Completed
Procurement                     February 2002
Project Progress                February 2002
5.   Draft PMR Formats (Forms) for    October 15, 2001  Financial        Completed
financial Reports sent to WB                       Controller
6.   WB review comments sent to       October 31, 2001  FMS QKS-CO       Completed
project/GOG
7.   Program of software to produce   Dec./Jan. 2002    Financial        Outstanding
reports and testing                                Controller
8.   Opening Special Account (with     Before request for  Financial
signatures etc)                  initial deposit   Controller
9.   First set of PMRs to be produced  End of Ist quarter  Financial
(Draft)                          of implementation  Controller
10   Second set of PMR to be produced  End of 2nd quarter  Financial
Controller
11.  Third set of PMRs                End of 3rd quarter  Financial
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   _Controller
12.  Decision to Move to PMR Based    End of 4th quarter  LOAGI,
Disbursements to be taken at this                  AFTQK, MOF,
stage.                                             MLF
- 85 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GHANA: Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             10/01/1999                   10/01/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     03/12/2001                   03/12/2001
Negotiations                                    11/05/2001                   11/06/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/18/2002
Prepared by:
Hassan Mohammed Hassan, Edward Felix Dwumfour.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Edward Felix Dwumfour             Natural Resource Management Specialist, Task Team Leader
Hassan Mohammed Hassan            Environmentalist
Solomon Bekure                    Agricultural Economist
Enos E. Esikuri                   Environmentalist
John D. H. Lambert                Medicinal Plants Specialist
Lucie Tran                        Operations Analyst
Patience Mensah                   Agricultural Economist
Mbungu Mbuba                      Procurement Specialist
Frederick Yankey                  Financial Management Specialist
Kofi Marrah                       Social Development Specialist
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti            Implementation Specialist
Gregoria Dawson-Amoah             Team Assistant
Rose Abena Ampadu                 Team Assistant
Joseph Ellong                     Language Team Assistant
- 86 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GHANA: Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
"Concept Paper for a Proposed Red Volta Community Reserve," Nature Conservation Research Center,
Accra, August 10, 1999.
"Ghana: Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project (NSBCP) - Gender and Socio-Economic
Issues," by Maja Naur, January 2001.
Draft Terms of Reference - Environmental Analysis
Draft Report on the "Propagation of Medicinal Plant Species," Final Phase - Taimako Plants Research
Centre, Dr. J. A Yidana, July 1999.
"Forest Reserves in Northem Region."
"Ghana-Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project (NSBCP): Pre-appraisal Mission Report, 0.
I Aalangdong, Tamale, Ghana.
"Improving Sheanuts Production in Ghana," J. A Yidana and Abu Juam, University for Development
Studies, June 2000.
"Management of Traditionally Protected Areas such as Sacred Groves and Underlying Areas in Northern
Ghana," Environmental Protection Agency (Northem Region).
"Medicinal Plants and rural Development in the Savannah Region of Northem Ghana: The Role of Women
in conservation, Management and Utilization," by Maja Naur, September 1999.
Mission Aide-memoire, Joint Pre-appraisal Mission of August 14-31, 2000.
Northem Savannah biodiversity Conservation (NSBC) Project, Daniel K. Abbiw, Botany Department,
University of Ghana, Legon.
"Pilot Communities for Biodiversity Conservation of Indigenous Crop Varieties," A. B Dery.
"Project Proposal for the Rehabilitation of Degraded Lands in Five Selected Communities (Paga in
Kassena-Nankana, Bazua in Bawku East and Shea in Bolgatanga Districts of the Upper East Region,
Wulugu in West Mamprusi District in the Northem Region and Jirapa in the Upper West Region), The
State of Land Degradation," Environmental Protection Agency, August 29, 2000.
"Restocking of Savanna Degraded Lands," Draft Report by Adam Abu.
"Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants for Animal Healthcare: Report on the Pre-appraisal Mission on the
Ghana Northem Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project (NSBCP), George Aning, Veterinary
Scientist, Animal Research Institute (CSIR).
"SRMP - Floral Survey".
"The Management of Endangered Plant Species in the Savannah Areas of Northem Ghana," paper
presented at the Workshop on Land Rehabilitation in the Northern Savannah Areas, 24-28 February
1997, Musah Abu-Juam, Botany Unit of Planning Branch, Kumasi, Ghana.
Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA) Training Program, Upper East Region - 2000.
Traditional Medicine Component, Wildlife Division, Northern Savannah Biodiversity Project, Activities
- 87 -



and Budget.
"Vegetation and Floral Survey of the Northern Savanna of Ghana: Review of existing knowledge and
results of a new survey," Daniel Abbiw and Patrick Ekpe, Ministry of Lands and Forestry
NRMP/SRMP - BC.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 88 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GHANA: Northem Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P050623       2002 ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROCRAM                  0.00    220.00                0.00       0.00    220.35      0.00      0.00
P050619       2002 ERSO III                                         0.00    100.00                0.00       0.00    110.64      0.00      0.00
P071617       2001 Ghana AIDS Response Project (umbrella)           0.00     25.00                0.00       0.00     24.55      0.00      0.00
P000968       2001 AGRIC SERMCES                                    0.00     67.00                0.00       0.00     63.76     36.64      0.00
P050624       2000 URBAN 5                                          0.00     10.83                0.00       0.00     10.15      0.00      0.00
P050616       2000 COMMUNITY WATER 11                               0.00     25.00                0.00       0.00     21.02      -2.55     0.00
P069465       2000 RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT                 0.00      5.13                0.00       0.00      4.69      3.80      0.00
P000974       1999 NAT FUNC LIT PROG                                0.00     32.00                0.00       0.00     28.06      5.68      0.00
P000970       1999 TRADE GATEWAY & NV.                              0.00     50.50                0.00       0.00     40.93     16.44      0.00
P040557       1999 ERSO II                                          0.00    178.20                0.00      18.41     25.90      0.45      0.00
P050615       1999 PUB.SECTOR MNGT.PROG                             0.00     14.30                0.00       0.00      7.12      4.99      0.00
P040659       1999 COMMUNITY DEV.                                   0.00      5.00                0.00       0.00      4.64      2.30      0.00
P045166       1998 FORESTBIODIVERSITY                               0.00      0.00                10.00      0.00      6.89      2.64      0.00
P000949       1998 HEALTH SCIR SUPPORT                              0.00     35.00                 0.00      0.00      4.61      -3.23     0.00
P000946       1998 NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                               0.00      9.30                0.00       0.00      4.12      4.56      0.00
P041150       1997 VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE                           0.00     30.00                0.00       0.00     17.64      5.74      0.00
P045588       1997 PUB.FIN.MGMT.TAP                                 0.00     20.90                0.00       0.00     11.76     14.04      0.00
P042516       1996 PUBLIC ENTERPRISE'PR                             0.00     26.45                0.00       0.00     12.03     13.12      0.00
P000957       1996 Highway Sector Investment Progran                0.00    100.00                0.00       0.00     16.03     39.63      0.00
P000943       1996 NON-BANK FIN tNS AST                             0.00     23.90                0.00       2.66      7.59     13.30      0.00
P000973       1996 URBAN ENVIRDNMENTAL SANITATION                   0.00     71.00                0.00       0.00     21.06     28.46      0.00
P000975       1996 BASIC EDLCATION                                  0.00     50000                0.00       0.00     14.52     19.26      0.00
P000926       1995 GH THERMAL (P-VII)                               0.00    175.60                0.00       0.00     27.04     34.01     33.30
P000962       1995 FISHERIES                                        0.00      9.00                0.00       0.00      1.53      2.24      0.00
P000966       1995 MININGSEC.DEV&ENV                                0.00     12.30                0.00       0.00      1.07      2.77      0.00
P000936       1994 LOCALGOVTDEV.                                    0.00     38.50                0.00       0.00      5.73      7.09      0.00
Total:       0.00     1334.91             10.00      21.07      713.62    254.57     33.30
- 89 -



GHANA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1993               AEFAfariwaa                  0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990              AEF Alugan                    0.05    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               AEF CFL                      0.28   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Dupaul Wood              0.06    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF NCS                      0.00    0.00    0.67   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00
1997              AEF PTS                       0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00
1991               AEF Packrite                 0.05    0,00    0.00   0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEFPharmaCare                0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Shangri-la               0.97    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.97    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              AEF Tacks Farms               0.37    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/89/91/93     Bogosu                        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91/93        Cont Acceptances              0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
GAGL                         2.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/96        GHANAL                        0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00
1991              GMCC                          0.00   0.13     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Ghana Leasing                0.48    0.73    0.00    0.00    0.48   0.73     0.00   0.00
Hotel Inv. Ghana             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93           Wahome Steel                  0.87    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.87    0.00    0.0;    0.00
1991/92
1989/92
Total Portfolio:        6.63    1.30    0.98    0.00     6.63   1.17    0.98    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000              SSB                            10.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2000              AEF Computer Sch                0.23      0.00     0.00      0.00
1995              AEF GHANA PACK                  0.36     0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              AEF Garden Court                1.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              AEF Japan Motors                1.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              ELAC                            0.00      0.00     0.25      0.00
2000              GAGL IV-Restr                   0.00      0.54     0.00      0.00
2000              Ghana Telecom                  40.00      0.00     0.00     60.00
Total Pending Commitment:      53.59      0.54     0.25     60.00
- 90 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GHANA: Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan     Low-
Ghana      Africa  Income      Development diamond*
1999
Pnmulatinn mid-vear (millionsl                       1R9        647     9 417                 Life expectancy
GNP ner canita /Atlas method. USSI                    390       500       410
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                      7 5       371       48R
Average annual arowth. 1993-99
Pnolsatinn 1%                                        7 fi      2         1  A
Labor force /%)                                       2 6       2.6       2 3     GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate /latest vear available. 1993-991                             capita                       vnrnIlnn
Povertv 1% of oooulation below national oovertv line)
t IrhRn nnuIlafi,n 1% of total oooulationl             3g       3A4       '1
Life eXDectanev at birth (vears)                       60        50        60
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 hve birthsl               fiS        92        77
Child malnutriti-n /% of children under 5)             27        37        43               Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (% of oooulation)      56        43        64
Hliteranv (% of oonulation aae 15+-                    30        3Q        39
Gross orimarv enrollment /% of school-aoe ooDulation)  79        78        96           Ghana       Low-income group
Male1 R4                                                       85       107
Female                                               74        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           4.0      5 2       7.5       7.8
Gmrss o-mestir inv-stm-nt1GFP                fi s    13 2      23 f      7 23 2
Fonorts of nndns and servir.AlO1P           11 2     1R 7      30        335                     Trade
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                   66       56       10 7       62
t ross natinnal cavinn/lGl)P                 fi 2     72       1RR       124
Current account balance/GDP                  1.0     -6.0      -4 7     -10 5     Domestic
Intprpet n.vm,nls/Gr.P                       017      t1        I A       1 fi    Snvestmet
Tntal riht/GDP                              31 q     64 7      82 q      Ri 0        logs
Total debt service/exoorts                   8.9     32.1      21 8      20 1
Present value nf deXhtltrP                                     53 A      50 7
Present value of debt/exoorts                                 156 1     151 7
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-D3
/averaoe annual arowthl
GGnp                                70       42       4 7       44        s 1             Ghana       Low-income group
GNP nPr canitA                      n s      1 9      21        2 2        6 2R
Exnorts of eoods and services      -0.3     10.8      8.4      12.6       7.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
f% of GDPI                                                                        2
Aori,eilllJre                              fsn0      49 0      36 0      35 6            A
Industrv                                    12.3     16.7      25.3      25 3     10
Manufaclurino                               87      1n 0       90        60
Services                                    27 8     34.3      38.7      39 1
PrivatR consurmntion                        63 1     84 5      760       827.     -o                           s
Generatl fovernment roOsnumntion            10 3      9 R      10 3      1n.                    GDl        S  GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services               11.2     24 3      46.7      50.5
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
/averaae annual orowthl
Anriyl.,lrh                                  n f6     3 n       .5 1      4q      45
Industrv                                     11       2 5       3.2       69      30
Manlufatririn.                              1 6     -4 S       4 1      f 0
Servires                                     45       54         0        7n     15 
Private cnsnumntinn                          1 8      40        34       1t                              97    9 
General nosernmAnt rnnsu,mntinn             276       44       -17 5     112                              97   98   99
Gross domestic investment                    0.6      3.7       9.0       47 
Imnortc nf n,orId and servicrs              -1 A      03         3 t     17 n                 Exports      imports
Gross national oroduct                       1 8      4.2       4.8       4.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin boldl comoared with its income-aroUD averane. Itf data are missin,. the diamond will
hP incomletep
- 91 -



Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998     1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                6
(% change)
Consumer prices                                     25.2      19.3     12.4    40
Implicit GDP deflator                      37.9     28.3      16.0     14.0    20 
Govemment finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                            10.5     13.6      20.5     20.2            94    95    96    97    98   9
Current budget balance                     -4.1      2.5       3.3      4.7                 GDP deflator  ~CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                             -5.3      -8.1     -6.0
TRADE
1979     1989      1998     1999     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         913     808      2,091    2,099    4000 -
Cocoa                                       ..     408       622      550
Timber                                       .      81       171      174     3,000
Manufactures                                ..                                2000
Total imports (cif)                         853    1,087     3,167    3,556    2000
Food                                        ..      42         ..             1,00 
Fuel and energy                           176      161       220      342
Capital goads                               ..     190                            R    A    N
93  94    96   96   97  88   99
Exoort orice index (1995=100)                46      89        98        91
ImDort once index (1995=1001                 26      94        88       90                *Exports      * Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                    179      95        111      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998     1999     Current account balance to GDP (%
fuSS millions)
Exports of goods and services             1,163     879      2,532    2,567      0
Imports of goods and services             1,061    1,278     3,491    3,865
Resource balance                            101     -399      -958   -1,298
Net income                                  -58    -118      -136      -138        I              'I       'I
Net current transfers                        -3     202       741       620
Current account balance                      41     -315     -353      -816     12
Financing items (net)                       -72     442       453       722
Changes in net reserves                      31     -127     -100        94    -18
Memo:
Reserves includinn oold /USS millionsl      401     436       508      446
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSS            7.0    270.0   2.314.0   2,647.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998     1999
(USS millionsl                                                                  Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,282    3,397     6,193    6,297
IBRD                                       93     114        27        18                   G:295  A:27
IDA                                        95    1,030     2,963    3,099
Total debt service                          104     285       560       522                  df
IBRD                                       10      19         4        10
IDA                                         1       8        32        41       E: 1,987
Composition of net resource flows                                                                             B: 2,9r3
Official grants                            32     208       239       159
Official creditors                        101     275       349       126
Private creditors                          -6      54       -10       115
Foreign direct investment                  -3      15        56       203            D: 600
Portfolio equity                           ..       0         15       80                     C:32
World Bank program
Commitments                                19     272        97       256     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              34     168       211       219     B-IlDk   D-Othermultilateral  F-Pnvate
Principal repayments                        3      11         17       28     C-IMF                      G-Short-term
Netflows                                   31     157       195       191
Interest payments                           8      17        19        23
Net transfers                              23     141       175       168
Development Economics
-92 -



Additional
Annex 11
Community Participation
In line with the project's stated development objective to improve the livelihood and health of
communities in the northem savanna zone of Ghana through the sustainable use of natural resources,
community-based actions by key stakeholders in joint management action of parks and reserves is
proposed.
Community participation in the project is considered crucial. Communities living in and around
the parks and reserves could impact positively or negatively on the project. Some communities have been
living in these locations long before they were declared as forest reserves or national parks. They are
engaged in mostly farming activities, animal husbandry and collection of NTFPs, Benefits derived from the
reserves are in the form of water, woodfuel, wood for construction of dwelling houses, bush meat of
various kinds and so on. Traditional birth attendants (TBAs) and traditional healers (THs) depend on the
forest reserves for supplies of herbs and medicinal plants. Some communities, as in the case of Gbele, have
farms and reside inside the reserves. Others practice activities, such as slash and burn practices, woodfuel
extraction and group hunting (through buming and smoking out animals) which are harmful to the reserves
and have, many times, led to wildfires contributing to the destruction of forests, wild animals and other
natural resources.
The major causes of loss of biodiversity and degradation of natural resources in the savanna zone
can be traced to tremendous pressure from increasing human and livestock populations, inappropriate
farming practices, deforestation, and bush fires. Among a number of contributory factors is inadequate
involvement of local communities in the natural resource management process. This leaves communities
feeling that such resources are everlasting and free for all. Due to their activities, local communities have
come into conflict with park and reserve authorities, such as the Wildlife Division and the Forestry Services
Division. This has led to an uneasy, if not hostile relationship between the communities and the authorities.
Despite the policing actions of the wildlife and forestry institutions, the areas under their protection
continue to be encroached by members of the fringing communities and more distant communities leading
to the depletion and degradation of their natural resources.
A number of legitimate needs are responsible for community entry into these areas. They include
their need for water, wood for cooking and building of dwelling houses, bush meat and herbs. Poverty, in
many cases, is an important factor in forcing them to look for these free benefits from the forests, as is the
denuded environment outside the protected areas, thereby putting more pressure on areas that are better
endowed with water and other resources. Another factor is the seasonal movement of elephants outside the
protected areas in search of forage during which they invade the farms of local communities and trample
their crops and the vegetation around them. Though the local people sometimes react by killing some of
these animals to ward them off, they have not succeeded in stopping the seasonal movements of animals in
search of food.
Therein lies the rationale for increasing their awareness and involvement in resource conservation
and management and equipping them with the capacity to manage and use sustainably natural resources.
The reasoning of the project designers is that the various actions envisaged stand a better chance of success
if they take into account the existence and economic activities of the communities living in and around the
- 93 -



parks and reserves, and considering them as an integral part of the environment. The goal is to adopt
approaches that recognize the problems facing the communities and to design with them systems by which
they can become an integral part of conservation actions in collaboration with other actors including
wildlife and forestry officials, district assemblies, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
Community Participation Conservation Management
Community participation in conservation management is advocated by the project because it would
promote community ownership of conservation practices, through participation in the design and
implementation of the various management actions. It is expected that such an approach would promote
commitment and buy-in by the local communities living in and around these protected areas.
The objective of this component of the NSBCP is to collaboratively develop, test and replicate
proactive measures which involve local communities more directly in planning and management of northern
savanna wildlife and forest/park reserves. The project would adopt a system of incentives such as
alternative livelihood practices based on preliminary assessments undertaken early in the project and
in-depth natural resource and socio-economic assessments of communities in and within close proximity to
the reserves aimed at providing information on current livelihood practices, resource use patterns, cultural
practices and other conditions.
The component would also support the development and implementation of community-based
resource management action plans to encourage sustainable resource use. To this end, local communities
would form commrunity action groups in collaboration with forestry and wildlife officials and other
interested actors. Chiefs and other opinion leaders would be involved at the outset. The project recognizes
the important role traditional and other opinion leaders such as assembly members play in the lives of local
communities particularly in the rural setting. Thus they are able to influence behavioral change among their
people when required.
The need to establish alternative livelihoods for communities living within or in close proximity to
protected areas, as incentives to discourage them from going into the reserves for their needs is recognized.
Community Actions in the corridors
The project aims to support the development of two wildlife corridors. The first corridor would
begin from the Sissili Central Forest Reserve through the Pudo Forest Reserve, the Chiana Hills Forest
Reserve linking up with the Nazinga Game Ranch in Burkina Faso. The second corridor runs from Burkina
Faso and links forests along the White and Red Volta Rivers and the Morago River continuing to Togo.
The objective of the corridors is to allow the movement of animals particularly elephants between Ghana,
Togo and Burkina.
The establishment and management of these two corridors may require the establishment of
community forest reserves and other specific activities in concert with local communities to ensure that they
are fully integrated in their establishment and management. Community actions would include the
development of areas where trees and other plants sought by elephants in their seasonal movements would
be cultivated in sufficient supplies to keep them from straying into community farms and trampling them.
These activities would be jointly developed and managed by communities, wildlife and forestry officials as
well as environmental NGOs.
-94 -



Alternative Livelihood
Under this component, the communities would be supported to develop altemative sources of
livelihood, which would promote a harmonious relationship with biodiversity conservation. Wildlife
Protected Areas Management Committees (WPAMCs) and Forest Management Committees (FMCs)
would be formed under the project and would include selected members of the communities.
Alternative livelihoods identified through consultations with communities in Gbele Reserve,
Desima, Sekoti, and Zongoiri include woodlot development, bee keeping, and domestication of small game.
Game domestication is not practiced in northern Ghana. However, it could be introduced with a chance of a
good measure of success particularly with the acceptance of the concept by the local communities. The
component would include the supply of breeding stock, shelter, and capital to interested communities. In the
Mole Game Park communities might want to develop artifacts for sale that would be support the Park
tourist attraction. The component therefore has the potential of leading to poverty reduction, a key objective
of the NSBCP.
To facilitate the development of alternative livelihood under this component, the project would
provide equipment, technical assistance, training and implementing expenses. In particular, the project
would consider the provision of mechanized wells to elirninate the commnunities' need to go for water inside
the parks and reserves.
Public education and awareness creation
In order to facilitate the integration of the local communities into biodiversity management a
comprehensive public and awareness-raising program would form an important part of the
community-based actions. The importance of indigenous knowledge in eliciting community participation
cannot be overlooked. Awareness creation programs such as radio and TV discussion programs in the local
languages, video documentaries as well as community theater production to elicit active participation of the
communities would be developed and supported by the project.
The awareness campaign would develop messages focusing on the importance of maintaining
biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources, codification and dissemination of best land
management practices, sustainable development in the traditional renewable energy sector through woodlot
development, wildfire prevention and management as well as production of training and infornation
materials. Communication equipment and consultancy services would be sought to ensure that effective
programs are developed to strengthen the capacity of communities to participate in decision-making
regarding the protection of the ecosystem. Other activities would include sensitization tours of wildlife
parks and community durbars.
- 95 -



Additional
Annex 12
Monitoring and Evaluation
The objectives of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is to develop an organized system for
capturing and disseminating information needed for tracking project performance against planned activities,
changes and trends in biodiversity; and for measuring the impact of project interventions.
Additionally, beneficiary and social assessment would be carried-out. Baseline studies would
provide benchmarks for evaluation. The system would allow an effective evaluation of: (a) the effectiveness
of the project's delivery mechanisms and procedures; (b) the impact of the field activities on the basis of
stated objectives, and input, output and impact indicators identified in the Project Design Summary (see
Annex l); and (c) the replication of the in-situ and ex-situ activities at a wider national scale.
The M&E system would be an integral part of savanna resource monitoring under SRMP and
would also be part of overall monitoring of natural resource management under the NRMP, therefore, the
information generated would be fed into NAFGIM which stores natural resource database.
M&E would be carried out at two levels, local and national, and would involve various agencies
and beneficiary communities. The local level would be sub-divided into community, project (NSBCP) and
regional/geographical (SRMP) levels. The national or program level would be at NRMP. Implementation
would be carried-out by an M&E unit of the NSBCP. The unit would coordinate data collection, analyze
and disseminate information.
Participating agencies and community members would agree on monitoring indicators, which
would include a set derived from the "Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation for Biodiversity Projects"
published by the GEF in June 1998. Annual work plans would be prepared each year with specific
milestones and deliverables, and highlighting lessons leamed as the project progresses. Feedback on
monitoring and evaluation results would be provided through quarterly and annual reports and to
communities through workshops and meetings.
The progress towards project outcomes would be evaluated during project supervision and an
in-depth review 12 months after the project becomes effective; followed by a mid-term review at the
36-month state. The in-depth review after 12 months would determine the extent to which the project is
performing vis-a-vis its development objectives. The mid-term review would determnine the status of the
project and the achievements of objectives by the completion date (72 months of implementation). An
Implementation Completion Report would be prepared at least six months prior to final disbursement of the
Grant. The Govenrnent would prepare its own evaluation and contribution to the project's completion
report.
Levels of M&E and Responsibilities
A.     Local Level
Community/Site -- community members would be selected from the Forest Management
Committees and Wildlife Protected Area Management Committees as community enumerators, to collect
- 96 -



data at the community level. The community enumerators would be responsible for:
*   collecting data for NSCBP M&E unit and
*   transmitting data to NSBCP
Participating Agencies - one person from each participating agency would be responsible for:
*   organizing and collecting data on participating agencies activities
*   preparing formats for data collection
*   transmitting data to NSBCP M&E
*   providing technical opinions on M&E results
Project level NSBCP) one M&E officer would be responsible for:
*   coordinating all NSBCP M&E activities and agencies
*   organizing monitoring at community and project levels
*   collecting informnation from participating agencies
*   preparing formats for data collection
*   reporting on project management activities - financial management, implementation status of project
activities etc.
*   organizing baseline studies and special surveys
*   consolidating and analyzing data
*   preparing and disseminating reports
*   signaling project management and relevant stakeholders about problems identified by M&E results
*   organizing workshops to disseminate results of M&E to communities
*   coordinating preparation of annual workplans and procurement schedules
*   organizing M&E training
*   convening meetings
*   managing M&E database
*   coordinate World Bank implementation support missions
Regional Level/Geographical (SRMP) -- the SRMP MIS officer would be responsible for:
* integrating NSBCP M & E informnation into SRMP MIS
*   transmitting informnation to NRMP for national level monitoring
*   informing/signaling SRMP Steering Committee about results NSBCP M& E results
B.     National Level
National/program (NRMP) - one officer would be responsible for:
* integrating NSBCP M&E data into NRMP MIS
*   transmitting information to NAFGIM database
*   inforning/Signaling policy makers of results/problems from M&E
*   provide feedback on policy issues to regional and project level stakeholders
Indicators
Monitoring indicators in Table I were identified and agreed on with stakeholders. The process
- 97 -



involved a series of consultations with communities in various locations in the project sites, followed by
two workshops that was attended by implementing agencies, and a cross-section of community
representatives of women, traditional healers, opinion leaders and farmers.
Data collection, Storage, Analysis and Dissemination
Primary and secondary data would be collected and built into a biodiversity database on northem
savanna. The biodiversity database would be integrated into SRMP MIS that in turn would be fed into
NRMP MIS. Relevant aspects of the biodiversity database in the would be fed into NAFGIM database
from the NRMP MIS.
Data would be gathered from:
*   structured surveys
*   interviews
*   PRA, RRA
*   official documents
*   remote sensing
*   land survey
*   direct observations
*   routine activities of participating agencies
Community enumerators would collect data based on requests from the M&E unit and
participating agencies. In addition, participating agencies would compile data as records of their routine
activities and transmit the data in partially analyzed form to the NSBC M&E unit. Data would be available
from specific studies e.g. baseline study and surveys.
The M&E unit would compile data from all sources into NSBCP database, and feed it into the
SRMP MIS. The M&E unit would analyze the data and prepare reports. The M&E unit would prepare
quarterly and annual reports. Additionally, it would prepare occasional briefs on pressing issues that need
immediate attention of the conmmunities. M&E reports would be disseminated to participating agencies,
policy makers' communities. Dissemination to communities would be done through forrnal workshops and
during site management meetings.
M&E Capacity
The M&E unit would manage the M&E system. It would be supported in field data collection by
16 community enumerators who would be drawn from the various communities at the project sites. The
enumerators would be trained in interviewing and questionnaire administration. Focal persons from the
participating agencies, SRMP and NRMP M&E would provide further support. An M&E specialist
(short-term consultant) with intemational experience would work with and train the M&E staff to set up
the system. The SRMP is providing for expertise and software for the design and management of the MIS.
For this reason, no additional resources would be required under NSBCP.
It is expected that the project would build the capacity for managing a biodiversity information
system that is well integrated at local and national levels, and can carry-on beyond the project life.
Baseline and other Studies
- 98 -



Baseline studies would be conducted where there are information gaps. Data from the baseline
studies and existing data would be used to build benchmark information for monitoring and evaluation.
Other investigative studies would be conducted on specific issues.
Evaluation
An in-depth assessment of the project would be carried-out 12 months after effectiveness to
evaluate the performance of the project towards meeting the development objectives. The results would
identify the project status at its mid-term. An implementation completion report would be prepared after the
project closes to assess the project's performance. Given that biodiversity conservation takes a long time to
show results, the full effects of project interventions on conservation of northern savanna biodiversity is
more realistically evaluated ten or more years of project implementation.
- 99 -



Table 1.       INDICATORS
Objectives  Indicator                       Unit          Data set             Method               Frequency
Poverny     Incidence of poverty            %             Government official  Collect from published When
reduction                                                 poverty data - GLSS  Government statistics  statistics is
Household per capita income     cash value    (for all poverty    (method for all poverty published
indicators)         indicators)
Infant mortality                %
Access to safe water            %
Net primary school enrollment   % of age group
Community- Area (reserves, parks, other) under  Hectare   Maps, project records, Area measurement GIS, Annually
basedglobal effective participatory management            remote sensing data  mapping
biodiversity
conservation
Participatory management plans  Number        Project records     Interviews, physical  Annually
implemented                                                       observations
Change in institutional arrangement Number    Project records, terms  Review of minutes of  Annually
for managing wildlife and forest              of reference        meetings, record of
protected areas                                                   inauguration.
Plant genebanks established     Hectares,     Genebank records    Genebank records,     Annually
Number of      "passport data"     collect passport data
species
Regeneration of vegetative cover  Hectare     Maps and vegetative  Collect passport data,  Every five
cover records       physical observations in years
the field
Change in area under compatible  Hectare      Project records of land Vegetative cover  Every five
land use                                      use.                methods               years
Changes in key flora            % loss        Survey data,        Community report on   Seasonally
Number of key  community records   land use, examine land (dry and
species                            use records and maps  rainy
from Soil Research   seasons)
Institute and other
agencies
Changes in key fauna            Number of key  Survey data,        Counting at transects,  At suitable
species        community records   interviews           intervals
Degraded areas rehabilitated and by Hectare   Community records    Counting at points,  Biennially
communities                     % survival                         patrols
- 100-



Objectives  Indicator                       unit          Data set            Method              Frequency
Community- Community dedicated reserves    Hectare        Community records,  Communities keep data Annually
based global under effective management    # of communities project data, images  physical observations
biodiversity
conservation Incidence of bush fires       Number/season  Community records,  Community           Annually
(continued)                                # brought under project data,      enumerators keep
control       images               records, images
Awareness of bushfire control in  Number/% of  survey results                         Annually
communities                    people, number                     PRA, interviews
f programs, # of
Fire Volunteer
Groups formed
Hotspots                       Number created Community records                       Annually
and surveyed   Inventory records   Interviews, counts,
observations
- Change in key faunal and floral  Number of  Survey records                          Annually
species, % loss                    Survey of transects
species
/unit area,    Survey records                           Annually
- Distribution of key faunal and  #/animal head                   Count numbers on
floral species                                                   transects
Community- Faunal corridors established    Hectare, number Project records,   Interviews, review of  Annually
based global                               of corridors, # of management plans,  management plans, GIS
biodiversity                               communities    maps
conservation                               involved
(continued)
Crop raiding                   Number of raids, Community records,  Wildlife guards keep  Continuous
reduced/Human-animal conflict   of elephants  wildlife patrol records records
reduced                        nd other
wildlife killed,                   Interviews, review of  Biennially
#/weightlvalue of                  management plans
property
destroyed
Number,        Community records   Interviews, Monitoring, Annually
Sacred groves under effective  Hectare                            Observations
management                    % woodland
cover
Number of      Records compiled by  Review of guidelines  Once every
Accessibility to key medicinal  healers      practitioners and    and record of official two years
plants increased.              Km            Project monitoring   meetings
- distance to source           Hr            team
- time spent in collecting 1 kg plant
material
of technical                      Interviews, workshop  Annually
Guidelines for sustainable    reports        Guideline document   recordings,
- 101 -



harvesting of medicinal plants  # of technical  Technical reports  observations
workshops/semin Workshop reports
ars
# of varieties                     Enumeration,        Annually
Increase in cultivation of medicinal Hectares  Project reports, farmers' Extension delivery
plants                        Mt/head       records, agric extension
records, practitioners'
records
# of farmers                       Collaborate with    Annually
Reintroduction and cultivation of  # of varieties  Project records, farmer agricultural extension
indigenous crop varieties     Mt/head       records, Agric.      staff to collect data
Hectare        Extension records,  from farms
Interview records
Objectives  Indicator                     Unit           Data set            Method              Frequency
Policy      Biodiversity conservation policies           Government policy   Examine official policy Annually
environment formulated adopted                           documents on        documents and
intellectual property  speeches.
rights, bioprospecting  Examine technical and
and biodiversity    workshop reports
strategy
Biodiversity Consultation Group  Date        Terms of Reference  Examine minutes of  Annually
established                   #1% (proportions Minutes of meetings.  meetings, official
of various     Annual plan of work or inauguration speeches,
groups).       operation           review records of BCG
# participating in
meetings
#of
meetings/year
Association of Traditional    Date (of       Terms of Reference  Examine official    Annually
Healthcare Practitioners registered registration)  Minutes of meetings.  records at Registrar of
# formed       Annual plan of work or Associations, minutes
# members      operation           of meetings, annual
# of meetings                      plan of work, project
reports, correspondence
Community   Biodiversity conservation awareness #of people  Survey data      Structured surveys   Biennially
education and raised                      reached
awareness of                              # of meetings,
biodiversity                              workshops/semin
onservation                               ars held
# trained to
engage in
awareness
raising
Depth of community out reach of              Survey results      Structured surveys,  Once in three
conservation awareness        # of people and                    interviews          years
communities
reached
4ternative  Income derived from medicinal  Cash value in  Practitioners' accounts, Interviews, collect data Biennially
-102-



livelihood   plants increased              Cedis          project records     from practitioners
Community members benefiting  # of people or  Project records,    Interviews, review  Biennially
from alternative livelihood sources communities  Interview records,  community records,
(ALS)                           of ALS       community            surveys
rovided       management records
% change in    Survey records      Assess household    Income
Change in average household   income levels                      income, household    assessment (
income attributed to alternative  # of people with               income surveys       biennially);
livelihood sources            income above a                                          Household
threshold                                              income surveys
(once in five
years)
onitoring  M&E system established          of systems   Staff training records, Assess management  Annually
nd                                        established    management system   information system,
Evaluation                                 # of upgrades  information flow,   review annual and
capability                                 commissioned   monitoring documents, workplan and budget,
# of Cedis spent expenditure records,  interview stakeholders
in upgrades    project records
# of M&E
reports generated
# of users
# of M&Es/year
conducted
# trained to use
system
- 103-



Additional
Annex 13
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
NSBCP has been categorized during project identification and preparation as a Category B project
under the World Bank's Safeguard Policies and Guidelines and therefore does require an environmental and
social impact assessment. However, given the nature and scope of the project, the intended beneficiaries,
the activities identified to support achieving the outputs and the objectives of the project, and extent of any
perceived impacts, the project requires just a relatively little environmental and social work in the form of
an analysis. For this project, preliminary surveys conducted by a team comprising sociologists, rural
development specialists, natural resources management specialists, community animators and members and
others during project identification missions showed that the implementation of certain interventions and
activities would trigger the World Bank's Safeguard Policies on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Pest
Management (OP 4.09), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30). There was therefore a clear justification
to formulate an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) for mitigating adverse impacts that
would emanate. The surveys, however, indicated that other Safeguard Policies such as Indigenous People
(OP 4.20), Forestry (OP 4.36), Safety of Dams (OP 4.37), Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)
and Projects and Disputed Areas (7.60) will not be triggered. The ESIA work done on the project includes
an Environmental and Social Management Plan (attached below) for mitigating adverse impacts that would
emanate.
According to the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) work done on the project,
the project is expected to have a number of very positive impacts on the environment including increased
sustainability of woodland savanna, wildlife resource management, medicinal plant species, farmer crop
variety germplasm, bush fire control, livestock grazing, improved soil fertility, watershed management, and
enhanced effectiveness of environmental management and monitoring. The implementation of the project
interventions during and after the project closes is not expected to have any significant adverse social and
environmental impact on the rural people and the ecology of the northern savanna area.
The components and activities identified under NSBCP would have negligible or no significant
adverse impact on the socio-economic set up in the pilot areas. The project recognizes the importance of
guaranteeing the maintenance of traditional rights of societies and would therefore not acquire any assets
(community or individual lands, movable and unmovable property, etc.) in order to carry out any of the
activities planned under it. People and community assets would remain therefore intact and would not be
affected by the project. Project interventions would not lead to physical displacement, dislocation or
resettlement of communities or people from their communities or homes, and within or outside forest and
wildlife reserves. Since no acquisitions of land and property or physical movement of people or
communities would be done under or emanating from the project, there would be no compensation
payments to any individual, groups or communities. However, implementation of the project may result in
loss of access to resources by individuals or communities, whose livelihood are tied up with natural
resources and biodiversity in the area. Particularly for the Gbele village that is situated in the Gbele
Resource Reserve natural resource use and allocation would become a problem as population increases:
There would be pressure from the community for more farmland and other non-timber forests products for
subsistence and gain as well as social infrastructure, which would require more reserve land. The ESMP
discusses various planning and mitigation options to address this kind of problem.
NSBCP interventions would be implemented, among others, in sacred groves, community dedicated
reserves, and other natural habitats such as forest and wildlife reserves. Sacred groves have significant
- 104 -



religious and historic importance and reverence to rural people. These may be places of traditional worship,
abode for gods, burial places for chiefs and tindanas, ancestral homes, etc. The project would seek to
improve the integrity of these areas by supporting activities such as enrichment planting with indigenous
plant species and wild animal restocking with fauna indigenous to the area. In addition, such areas would
be planted with medicinal plant species and other plant species that could be used by communities for
fuelwood or construction poles. Implementation of project activities in these areas would be done in a
participatory and collaborative fashion by involving the WPAMCs or FMCs, local people, communities
and traditional authorities in formulating, discussing and agreeing together on a plan of implementation.
This would ensure that any perceived impacts are eliminated or mitigation plans are designed prior to
commencement of implementation. The ESMP describes possible ways of mitigating any perceived adverse
impacts.
The project would support farmers to re-introduce abandoned farmer crop varieties on their farms
or in home gardens. NSBCP would target using farmers' farms, home gardens and degraded lands for the
cultivation of medicinal plant species. It is expected that project interventions (as described in Annex 2)
would lead to increased agricultural and medicinal plant production, and therefore growth in people's
income levels and health care needs. The project does not perceive that agricultural growth and medicinal
plant availability would be achieved at the expense of the environment. The project perceives no pest
resurgence or soil fertility loss or a consequential drop in crop yield as a result of crop re-introduction and
cultivation of medicinal plants. Contrary, the integration of indigenous crop varieties and medicinal plant
species in the agro-ecological set up, in sacred groves and on degraded lands would reduce pest numbers,
enhance soil fertility and increase soil productivity. Project funds would not be utilized to support the use of
pesticides and other agro-chemicals.
Although the project perceives no increased use of pesticides and other agrochemicals, an ESMP
has been prepared to consider such a "virtual" occurrence. With FAO support, MOFA have developed
integrated pest management (IPM) packages and IPM extension materials in cereal (particularly in rice),
vegetable and fruit tree farming and have conducted countrywide training and skills upgrading of farmers,
extension staff and others in the application of IPM. Farmer orientation and training are done usually
through what have become popularly known as -farmer field schools- in IPM. The staff of MOFA's two
departments - Agricultural Extension Department and the Plant Quarantine and Regulatory Services
Department (PQRSD) - and other public and private organizations with presence in the three northem
regions have capacity to extend IPM to farmers. But the current farmer-extension staff ratio is skewed
unfavorably against farmers. As planned under Component 2 of the project, more farmers, extension staff,
NGOs, CBOs, farmer-based organizations, input suppliers, etc. would receive training and exposure to
environmentally sound and sustainable agricultural production technologies, including integrated pest
management (IPM) strategies. In this respect, training would highlight technologies such as IPM strategies,
biological control, physical and mechanical control, safe use of chemicals, preparation and application of
so-called third generation pesticides (e.g. neem extract), composting and organic manuring,
minimal/no-tillage, bullock ploughing, cover cropping, mixed cropping, etc. IPM is the packaging of two or
some or all of the above-mentioned agronomic practices and techniques as the best option at any particular
temporal and spatial situation to prevent or control pests and diseases.
NSBCP would also take lessons from the current policy of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture,
one of whose objectives is to use less and less pesticides and other chemical inputs in agriculture and to
promote integrated pest management technologies. Current Government of Ghana policy on agricultural
growth is to train more MOFA extension staff and farmer-based organizations in sustainable agricultural
production and in IPM. Again, lessons that would be learnt from the Bank supported Agricultural Service
- 105-



Sub-Sector Investrnent Project (AgSSIP), which was ratified by the Government of Ghana in July 2001,
would help to shape the way NSBCP would support implementation of interventions. AgSSIP would
support training of farmers, farmer-based organizations, MOFA extension staff and environmental and
social NGOs and CBOs in IPM. Ghana's IPM policy is consistent with the FAO's policy on integrated
pest/disease management.
GEF funds earmarked under Component 2 would be utilized to support community outreach
programs. NSBCP would support activities leading to the enhancement of public consciousness on safe and
correct use, application and disposal of pesticides and agrochemicals, organic farming, non-chemical
preservation of farm produce, etc. The outreach program would expose participants to the criteria for
selection and use of pesticides as outlined in the World Health Organization's Recommnended Classification
of Pesticides by Hazard and Guidelines to Classification (Geneva: WHO 1994-95), the World Bank's
Operational Policies on Pest Management OP 4.09, and the Ghana National Pesticides Management Act.
The Ghana National Pesticides Management Act is consistent with the WHO's pesticides classification and
guidelines.
NSBCP would not support large-scale community infrastructure investment such as schools,
roads, water supply and sanitation, health clinics, community centers, dams/dugouts etc. Such investments
would be funded, as appropriate, under the World Bank supported Village Infrastructure Project (VIP) and
Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP-2), which are currently under implementation. NSBCP
would support only the construction and rehabilitation work of ranger field stations and bushfire
observation posts on non-farm lands and outside of protected areas as well as the limited rehabilitation
work of SRMC office facilities in Tamale. It is not expected that these rehabilitation and construction
activities would result in any significant increase in noise levels and level of dust emissions that would be
damaging to human health and the physical environrnent. It is expected further that there would be no or
negligible loss of vegetation since the construction of new ranger field stations and observation posts would
require only small land parcels at the fringes of protected areas, and rehabilitation of existing ranger field
stations and SRMC office structures would require no additional new land. Overall, these limited civil
works, which would involve no earth excavation and moving, would have no significant adverse impact on
the physical environment (e.g. air and water quality, microclimate, temperature, soils, hydrology, etc.). The
severity of these environmental issues that would be likely to emanate from implementing the project would
be negligible, their extent localized, and the duration very short.
Faunal corridors would be created by incorporating community and individual lands along major
rivers in the north as part of the existing forest reserves. These community and individual lands would not
be gazetted as state forest reserves. There would be no physical or legal demarcation or pillaring of
community and individual lands that would form part of the corridors. However, old and defect pillars
showing boundaries of state reserve lands would be replaced. No physical changes would be made in the
corridors that would adversely impact on the ecology and biology of the system. Perceived impacts, albeit
insignificant, that could emanate from some community activities and may have negative bearing on the
integrity of the ecology of the corridor would include bush burning, inappropriate forms of crop production
and grazing of animal, creation of settlements, etc. The ESvP and the PAD indicate that the project would
support the development and adoption of appropriate land and water management practices such as
agro-forestry, mixed cropping, woodlots establishment, application of organic compost and manure for
farning, no-bum and no-till technologies, etc. The project would support through formal training and
workshops the Veterinary Services Department and the Animal Health Department of MOFA, WD and
FSD to mount periodic surveillance of wild animal movements to determine transmission and ensure
prevention and cure of animal diseases, especially of transboundary migratory wild animal species.
- 106-



The study proposed a costed Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan, based on the results of the
environmental and social analysis. A total amount of US$383,000 has been earmarked for the
implementation of the ESMP. The proposed project would not provide any large-scale infrastructure
investments such as schools, roads, water supply and sanitation, health clinics, community cente;s,
dams/dugouts etc. These would be provided at the request of participating communities under the Village
Infrastructure Project (VIP) and the Second Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP-2), which
are currently under implementation. The infrastructure investments will be implemented in accordance with
environmental guidelines prepared by the EA for the Village Infrastructure Project and the Second
Community Water and Sanitation Project. As appropriate, NSBCP investments will be subject to
environmental impact assessment as required by Ghana's Environmental Protection Agency.
The Savanna Resources Management Center at Tamale will be the lead agency responsible for
implementing the environmental and social management plan and ensuring that other measures included as
interventions in the project and which in themselves are required for mitigation of adverse impacts are
carried out and that they achieve their objectives in this regard. In order to do so the SRMC will designate
the Environmental Management Specialist seconded to the Center from the EPA to be responsible for
monitoring the progress in implementing the plan. This individual will need to be further trained in
environmental assessment and monitoring. Since certain activities and mitigation actions will be carried out
by various agencies and individuals in the field, such institutions and individual officers and some
community members identified to carry out such responsibilities will need short training courses, in-house
training or on the job training in environmental and social assessment and monitoring. In carrying out the
environmental and social management and assessment functions as they relate to the mitigation actions, the
EM Specialist will work with the District Environmental Management Committees (DEMCs) and the
Community Environmental Management Committees (CEMCs), whose capacities will have to be built
through training workshops. The project will have to provide material and financial support to the
institutions, committees and individuals identified to implement the mitigation plans.
For the purposes of monitoring, collection, collation, storage and dissemination of data and
information during the implementation of the mitigation actions the SRMC monitoring and management
information system unit will be used. Monitoring will be carried out in accordance with a manual or system
prepared under the NSBCP. Monitoring of mitigation actions will be carried out right from start off date of
project implementation.
- 107-



ESMP SUMMARY TABLE
Activity                   Implementing Agency      Monitoring            Timing          Cost
Responsibility
ENVIRONMENT
Infrastructure investments
- Appropriate mitigation   CWSA: water supply and   SRMC                  Project duration  Included in
measures                   sanitation                                                      CWSA &
MOFA: roads, health     SRMC
clinics, dams/dugouts                                          VIP projects
- Conduct EAs              Consultants             EPA                    As requested    $25,000
Cultivation of Crop Varieties
& Medicinal Plant Species
- Integrated Pest Management Agric. Extension Dept. and Agric. Extension Dept.  As requested  Included in project
(IPM)                      PQRSD of MOFA, SRMC, and PQRSD of MOFA
NGOs
- Donkey carts to move     Agric. Extension Dept. of  Agric. Extension Dept. of As requested  $3.00 per donkey
compost                    MOFA                     MOFA                                  cart
- Training in IPM and best  TAMD/Min. of Health    TAMD/Min. of Health    Once a year     $100,000
farming practices
- Public Education and     TAMD/Min. of Health      TAMD/Min. of Health   Project duration  $50,000
Awareness Raising on Crop
and Medicinal Plant
Cultivation
Biodiversity Resources
Management:
- Support appropriate land  Agric. Extension Dept. of  SRMC with support from             Included in project
management practices &     MOFA, SRMC, WD, FSD      Wildlife Division (WD),
protect farmers' crops and                          Forest Services Division
property from moving animals                       (FSD), and respective
in the faunal corridors:                            District Assemblies
- Short term refresher courses  Consultants/NGOs    SRMC                  Once every two  $20,000
for SRMC, MOFA, WD, FSD                                                   years
- Surveillance of wild animal  Veterinary Services Dept.  SRMC             Project duration  $150,000
movements                  and Animal Health Dept.
of MOFA, WD, FSD
- Training for Veterinary  Consultants, NGOs        MOFA                   Once every year  $20,000
Services, Animal Health Dept.,
and Wildlife Division
- Training workshops for   Consultants              SRMC                  Twice during     Included in project
Communities                                                               project
- 108-



- Training for Env. Specialist  SRMC               SRMC                  Less than 3     $8,000
to monitor implementation of                                             months
ESMP
Sub-Total                                                                                $373,000
SOCIAL
Develop a plan on          Consultants, independent  SRMC                During first    Part of costed
compensation /altemative land valuators, NGOs and                        quarter of project interventions and
use for potential loss of  relevant government units                     implementation  activities of the
agricultural land and use of                                                             project.
resources in protected areas.
Establish a program for    Consultants and NGOs    SRMC                  Right after     $10,000 for
community-based alternative                                              project         formulating a
income generating activities                                             effectiveness   program
for beneficiaries in and around
the Gbele Reserve.
Ensure that the project takes  WD, SRMC            SRMC                  During first    Part of costed
into account the potential                                               quarter of project interventions and
increase in population in                                                implementation  activities of the
relation to the planned                                                                  project.
limitation in natural resource
use from the reserve.
Develop a multi-sectoral plan  Consultants, NGOs other  SRMC             During first    Cost would be
which shows how the other two donors active in the region                quarter of project catered for under
projects will cater to the needs and in collaboration with               implementation. VIP and CWSP-2.
of the targeted communities.  the TTLs from all three
projects to reflect synergies
Develop a monitoring and   Consultants, relevant                         During first    Already
evaluation Plan which is   implementing actors at the                    quarter of project incorporated into
participatory and ensure that is government, district and                implementation  the M&E section of
adequately budgeted for.   community level.                                             the project
components
Grand Total                                                                              $383,000
- 109-



Additional
Annex 14
Description of Selected Project Sites
A      Forest Reserves
Criteria for selection
As most Forest Reserves are degraded selection skewed towards reserve with a large intact
vegetation. The following condition score system was used:
Condition Score applied in summarizing the vegetation quality of forest
reserves
Score                                         Definition
I            EXCELLENT with nearly closed canopy forest or woodland showing little or no sign of
degradation; few perennial grasses
2            GOOD with light to moderate signs of degradation; predominantly trees and shrubs; grass
cover moderate
3            SLIGHTLY DEGRADED: Open woodland with mostly short trees and shrubs; grass cover
rather dense
4            MOSTLY DEGRADED: Degraded savanna with very few and widely scattered short trees
and shrubs and extremely high dense grass cover
5            VERY POOR: Grassland composed mainly of short annual grasses, sometimes growing in
tussocks
1. Reserve name: Ambalara District: Wa Condition Score: Good
Area: 131.94 km2
Date of Reservation: 1956 (1957)
Documentation:
Reservation/Management objectives: To protect and maintain existing vegetation cover in the
catchment areas.
Notes: Selected only as a pilot site because it has greater than 60% intact
vegetation.
2. Reserve name: Kenikeni          District: Bole
Condition Score: Good
Area: 515.92 km2
Date of reservation: 1955
Documentation:
- 110-



Reservation/Management objectives: Headwaters for several streams that feed the tributaries of
the Black Volta River, reservoir for game, control of soil erosion. Poles and thatch for local
housing, conserve the vegetation which the livelihood of the communities depend upon.
Issues to be tackled under the project will include enrichment planting, planting buffer zone around
sacred grove, ex-situ propagation of medicinal plants from reserve to home gardens of traditional
herbalist. Fire protection and fire fighting training.
Notes: Selected because 1) its southem location to Mole National Park (MNP) serves as an
off-park refuge or additional protection for wildlife. 2) The presence of the Communities leaving
between this reserve and MNP offers opportunity for community for developing systems for
comnmunity involvement in biodiversity resource management.
3. Reserve name: Kulpawn H/waters  District: Tumu Condition
Score: Partly Degraded
Area: 155.40 km2
Date of Reservation: 1957
Documentation:
Reservation/Management objectives: To protect the headwaters of the
Kulpawn River.
Notes: Selected only as a pilot site because it has greater than 60% intact
vegetation.
4. Reserve name: Kulpawn Tributaries District: Wa Condition
Score: Partly Degraded
Area: 99.95 km2
Date of Reservation: 1954
Documentation:
Reservation/Management objectives: Protect the headwaters of
Kulpawn tributaries.
Notes: Selected only as a pilot site because it has greater than 60% intact
vegetation.
5. Reserve name: Mawbia    District: Turnu Condition Score: Good
Area: 129.95 km2
Date of Reservation: 1954
Documentation:
Reservation/Management objectives: To protect the headwaters of
Mawbia river and its tributaries.
Notes: Selected only as a pilot site because it has greater than 60% intact
vegetation.
6. Reserve name: Nuale     District: Wa  Condition Score: Good
Area: 51.8 km2
Date of Reservation: 1952
Documentation:



Reservation/Management objectives: To protect the headwaters of the
San River and its tributaries and to ensure a supply of forest produce in
perpetuity for the neighboring villages (Reserve selection Report, 1952).
Notes: Selected
7. Reserve name: Sinsabligbini    District:    Condition
Score:
Area: 72.72 km2 (Natural Forest =72.52 km2; Plantation = 200 hectares)
Date of Reservation: 1955/1956
Documentation: Reserved under Native Authority Bye Laws of 1956.
Reservation/Management objectives: Protection of headwaters of Moya Tributaries, protection
from soil erosion, provision of thatch and poles for local housing, provision of herbs for medicinal
practices, establishment of plantations for fuel wood and poles.
Issues to be tackled under the project include re-introduction of endangered medicinal plants by
traditional herbalists from fringing communities in areas under rehabilitation, fire protection,
prevention and fighting, enrichment planting of degraded areas with indigenous species and
watershed management.
Notes: 180 ha converted to plantation.
8. Reserve name: Tankwidi East   District: Bolgatanga
Condition Score: Slightly Degraded through illegal mining activities
Area: 193.2 km2
Date of Reservation: 1955
Documentation:
Reservation/Management objectives: To preserve little remaining woodland in Westem Frafra
and to ensure a permanent supply of forest produce including poles, fuelwood, fruits and grasses for
the Sub-Native Authority areas of Zuarungu. Also to rehabilitate areas which have been ruined by
inappropriate agricultural practices (Reserve Selection Report, 1951).
Notes: Reserve intact. However, about 20 ha have been destroyed
through illegal gold mining.
9. Reserve name: Tankwidi West    District: Navrongo
Condition Score: Slightly degraded
Area: 119.14 km2
Date of Reservation: 18/2/41
Documentation:
Reservation/Management objectives: (i) To preserve the remnant woodland in the Nankana area
and to ensure a permanent supply of forest produce including poles, fruits, fuelwood and grasses for
the local population (ii) To carry out improvement planting in areas which have been destroyed
through inappropriate agricultural practices. (Management Plans, Reserve Selection and Control
reports).
Notes: About 60 ha degraded as a result of encroachment, illegal farming activities and bush fires.
Over-grazing and bush fires are the major environmental problems in the area.
- 112 -



B.     Faunal Corridors
Reasons For Selection: Basic criterion is contiguity with the intact vegetation in Burkina and Togo
and others in Ghana. These corridors contain various species and populations of wild animals
including migrating large mammals such as the elephant.
10. Reserve name: Chiana Hills District: Navrongo  Condition
Score: Good
Area: 43.59 km2
Date of Reservation: 12/2/1951
Documentation:
Reservation/Management objectives: To protect sources of streams which flow south and
south-east through the Nakong and Ketiu farming areas and eastwards to join the Chiasi River and
also as a valuable source of supply of poles and firewood (Reserve Selection Report).
Notes: Intact forest reserve. Selected as a pilot site because it has greater than 60% intact
vegetation and significant wild animal life.
11. Reserve Name: Morago East     District: Gambaga/Walewale
Condition Score: Good
Area: 88.06 km2
Date of Reservation: 1954
Documentation:
Reservation/Management objectives: The reserve was created to provide complete protection for
the headwaters of the Morago River a tributary of the White Volta River. The reserve is expected to
provide medicinal plants, thatch material, fuelwood, construction wood and grazing land for
communities close to the reserve. No management plans exist. Interventions to be supported under
the project would include extension delivery, awareness creation and education on basic bush fire
protection, prevention and fighting, in-situ and ex-situ propagation of threatened plant species the
retained or endangered medicinal plants.
Notes: Selected because it forms part of eastem faunal corridor.
12. Reserve name: Morago West            District: Bawku
Condition Score: Good
Area: 39.76 km2
Date of Reservation: Not known. Either 1946 or 1954
Documentation: Has exploitable sizes of Khaya senegalensis. Group
hunting by inhabitants is prevalent.
Reservation/Management objectives: (i) To protect headwaters of streams which arise therein to
ensure water supply to neighboring villages. (ii) To prevent erosion on hill slopes and to ensure the
supply forest produce to the surrounding populations. (Management Plans and Demarcation
reports.)
Notes: Selected because it forms part of eastern faunal corridor.
13. Reserve name: Pudo Hills District: Tumu Condition Score:
- 113-



Slightly degraded
Area: 54.45 km2
Date of Reservation: 1956
Documentation:
Reservation/Management objectives: Soil and erosion control.
Notes:
14. Reserve name: Red Volta East  District: Bolgatanga
Condition Score:
Area: 217.60 km2
Date of Reservation: 1953
Reservation/Management objectives.
(i) To rehabilitate the land and its forest crop with minimum interference with the rights of the
people;
(ii) To supply poles, fuelwood, small timber for tools to inhabitants from the area on sustained yield
basis;
(iii) Safeguard the soil from accelerated erosion;
(iv) Carryout research on coppicing ability of indigenous species and effects of bush fires on their
growth rate.
Notes: About 10 ha damaged by illegal gold digging. Extensive tobacco and other farming practices
degrade the banks of the Red Volta River. Occasional encroachment and grazing of cattle by Fulani
headsmen. Periodic bush fires result in stunted growth of plant species. (Working/Management
Plans and Control reports).
15. Reserve name: Red Volta West  District: Bolgatanga
Condition Score: Slightly degraded
Area: 261.6 km2
Date of Reservation: 1955
Reservation/Management objectives:
(i) To preserve the little remaining woodland in Zuarungu District and to ensure a permanent supply
of forest produce including poles, fuelwood, fruits and grasses for the Sub-Native Authority areas
of Zuarungu;
(ii) To rehabilitate areas which have been ruined by bad agricultural practices;
(iii) To conduct research in degraded savanna woodland.
(Management Plans, 1950)
Notes: Illegal farmers have destroyed about 5.08 ha.
16. Reserve name: Sissili Central  District: Navrongo
Condition Score:     Good
Area: 155.09 km2
Date of Reservation: 13/2/1951
Reservation/Management objectives: To protect vegetation thereby ensuring the flow of the
stream in the dry season and lessen flooding and erosion; and also to ensure the supply of forest
- 114-



produce in perpetuity to the villagers of the North-west Builsa. (Reserve Selection Report, 1948)
Notes: Partly degraded.
C.     Community Reserves
Criteria: Identifiable community initiatives. At the time of PDF only the Naaha Community reserve
was identified.
17. Reserve name: Naaha Comrnunity Reserve District: Wa  Condition Score: Good
Area: About 5 ha
Date of Reservation: Apparently on 13/2/1997
Reservation/Management objectives: To protect vegetation thereby ensuring the central stream in
the dry season. Support by Nuntaa-Suntaah NGO to cultivate medicinal plants for village use. The
periphery will be planted with fuelwood species and managed by an existing village reserve
committee.
Notes: Well maintained.
D.     Wildlife Reserves
Criteria: Selected because of protection for flora and fauna. They are also representative samples
of ecosystem in Ghana with more than 80% of vegetation intact.
18. Reserve name: Mole National Park District: Damongo Condition Score: Excellent
Area: 4,480 km2
Date of Reservation: 1971
Reservation/Management objectives: To actively protect and maintain the physical, biological and
aesthetic features of the park as a fine example of typical Guinea (tall grass) savanna ecosystem. Realizing
and exploiting the park's potential as a venue for tourism based on its wildlife viewing, recreational,
educational, cultural and aesthetic appeal.
Notes: Well maintained representative sample of Guinea savanna. Rich in mammal (90+spp.) and birds
(300+spp.)
19. Reserve name: Gbele Resource Reserve  District: Tumu Condition Score: Good
Area: 565 km2
Date of Reservation: 1975
Reservation/Management objectives: To assure the natural conditions necessary to maintain populations
of native large mammals and to provide for the sustained production of wildlife and other products and
also to allow natural movement of surplus animals into the surrounding lands for the benefit of local
people. The primary management objective was the provision of bushmeat for the local conmmunities.
Notes: Gbele village located in the reserve. Apart from the settlement area that is partly degraded the
remaining areas are well maintained and intact.
- 115-



- 116-



MAP SECTION






BURKINA  ASO~~~~~~~~~~~BmBE                                         I
H-1 oJe-ode&                    Boigatana Jga0.0j  BnaTOGOBNI
Jiropo  Sabuli  ./1    olLoBo            0~~~~~~~~Nop.nd,ir
.Node        -              QJumbo                 GOb.n9d..Vo              GEF 'BIODIVERSITY COMPONENT.
Maui,,      ~~~~~Wsn.nhikj0    TOTAL COVERAGE-MOIDT FORESTS
0-           0                              Tft,jr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y  Kc PARTIAL COVERAGE-MOIST FORESTS
Darionn0  0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~Jo~nga                     W~if  SOUISHERN DRYrFORESTS
T-in.  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~   ~   ~   G.hip~~0  9           PRODUCTTION ANT/OR
DiS Oa                               PLANTATION MANAGEMRENT
Weak,,,,,  K       _                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REOTECTED AREAS
S                                      0~~~~~~~  ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YnpoIni  s.6b6.aP
S-Ip                               ZONES OFPFROJECT/COMPONENT
awuni  0aasuNT                ~~~~~~~~~~~~ACTMTIES
Juno        NO   THE RN~~~~~~~~~11  Tamale  SinYandi  ,%.'-RIVERS        TON
Nyonkpal.T  0                                AIOA  AIA
SAYA\)~~~~~NA                    z.b. ~~~S0 SELECTED IIS ANDTON
Chocks  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .-. 0l'sun,         0obung  ~ ,ko                 1.-- INTRNATIONAL ROUNDARIRS
Rain0      ?Tnrri   Fofu~~~~~~Lso~                       NA4/
S.rrip.                  ,s1:              sr..              apl
C6TE                           . -                -
D'IVOIRE           -         cirno,Gluup 
0Tslima-.-.-ah                                                b
T..o d- of-                  nl. oAh-
- -hn2i-      JNVm                                                   Th- 0<F~- \,1
*  0  \  Booker,9  hubu0                    * .9550k -  Aho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~maso i. ~1. T.W,I  .k
Suobodorn0  0fiesnn 0-S        r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ...
Ak-l,n i.  u    ehm      N~z,Tn                                                  Dsg  nto  h  'd  uk
f .             'Te.kiuo  0aao                                             6
0           Hiowaann                                .     Do bnundonns, coin,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.  d no,ain
Anntaognim-wy                  RjJ                                                            7 -
C0,baOS    kRh40      n- -fid                                         h      Tnn,OGO
7   a~n                                    -$'Eo
Kwodoal,kromku,nrn  Renyao.  Ynpa0  A4
Aoau,nnd,om  i,,.~h - -  -J  0009%
HBI   e 0I                                      orSt
adeesa  Solo:'  ~~~~Oio        AS.ob iA           I                         Vut
Akoban,  Rkop0EST       %Das 0 'm~/-k5stm
A..  Pine,                      I~~~~~~~O -I            1'.4.,  , 
odioso  -  rono  . ~~~A   - ~  Fn-,.
ES  0  -M~~~~~~inriri  C, Agy  pro*9
r          !'T,~~~1   Iod- W
* sen 5.~  ,  apesSasoilG                  H A N A
5-  - ,InoI,sEsI,e  1d,                                     NATURAL RESOURCE'
P-1-0 1,;                       ~~MANAGEMENT PROJ ECT*
G ulIf   ofI   Our n ec ss                                  ;   'l    i.1TFl
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
*0  5                        I.                                         ~~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.  -s



