Republic of Ghana
Ministry of Lands and Forestry
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
OF
NORTHERN SAVANNA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
PROJECT
(NSBCP)
(DRAFT)
A. B. Acheampong                             FILE  COPY
P. 0. Box OS1551
Osu-Accra                                   February, 2001
Northern savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project - EA  Page  ix



1.0 INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND                                                                             1
2.0 DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT                                                                                  2
3.0 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES, LEGISLATION AND INSTITUTIONAL
ARRANGEMENTS                                                                                                4
3.2     World Bank's Safeguard Policies and Guidelines                                                      5
4.0 METHODOLOGY FOR DEVELOPING ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT                                                     6
4.2     Desktop analyses                                                                                  7
4.3     Field Visits                                                                                      7
5.0 DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT ENVIRONMENT                                                                      9
5.1     Physical Environment                                                                               10
5.1.1      Climate and Meteorology                                                                       10
5.1 .2Geology and Topography                                                                             10
5.1.3      Surface and Groundwater Hydrology                                                             12
5.2     Biological Environment                                                                             12
5.2.1      Ecology                                                                                       12
5.2.2      Flora                                                                                         12
5.2.3      Fauna                                                                                         14
5.2.4      Rare or Endangered Species                                                                    14
5.2.5      Wild Animal Migration                                                                         15
5.3      Socio-Cultural Environment                                                                        15
5.3.1      The People                                                                                    15
5.3.2      On-farm livelihood activities                                                                 16
5.3.3      Land Tenure                                                                                     17
5.4     The Pilot Sites                                                                                    18
5.5.1      Gbele Resource Reserve                                                                        19
5.5.2      The Faunal Corridors                                                                          20
6.0 EVALUATION OF POTENTIAL ENVIRONENMENAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS OF
PROJECT                                                                                                   24
6.1     General                                                                                            24
6.2.    Important Environmental and Social Components used in the Analysis                                 25
6.2.1      Potential Ecological Implications                                                             27
6.2.2      Potential Implications for Natural Resources                                                  27
6.2.3      Potential Socio-economic/Health Implications,                                                 27
(I)     Physical Environment                                                                               28
6



7.0 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT AND TRAINING FOR THE IMPLENTATION OF
THE PROPOSED MITIGATION MEASURES                                                       35
7.1    General                                                                          35
7.2    Institutional Arrangement                                                        36
7.3    Training, Monitoring and Reporting on Environmental Management and Assessment    38
8.0  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                                    41
8.1    Conclusions                                                                      41
8.2 Recommendations                                                                     41
REFERENCES                                                                              44
APPENDIX I                                                                              46
APPENDIX 11                                                                             50
SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF NSBCP                                                            50
Project Design Summary                                                                  58
GHANA: NORTHERN SAVANNA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT                               58
Legislation                                                                             65
Environmental Assessment L.I                                                            66
APPENDIX IV                                                                             70
APPENDIX VI                                                                              1
7



List of Acronyms
CIPSEG - Co-operative Integrated Project on Savanna Ecosystems of Ghana
CITES - Convention International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and
Fauna
DPA - District Planning Authorities
EIA - Environmental Impact Assessment
EPA - Environmental Protection Agency
GERMP - Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project
GIS - Geographic Information System
LI - Legislative Instrument
MOH - Ministry of Health
MLF - Ministry of Lands and Forestry
NEAP - National Environmental Action Plan
NSBCP - Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project
PMCU - Project Monitoring and Co-ordinating Unit
SRMC - Savanna Resource Management Component
UDS - University of Development Studies
UNESCO - United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation
Northern savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project - EA  Page



ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The Consultant wishes to express his appreciation and gratitude to the Ministry of
Lands and Forestry for giving the assignment.
Special thanks are also due to Mr M Abu-Juam (Project Co-ordinator), Mr Amissah,
Project Administrator and the staff of the Ministry on the Natural Resources
Management Project for their assistance and co-operation.
He wishes to thank Dr E. Dwumfour of the World Bank, Ghana Office, for his
invaluable advice during the preparation of this report.
The following persons and institutions, who helped in various ways, especially during
the field trips are acknowledged: Mr N. Ankudey, Director of Wildlife Department and
his staff, Mr Moses Anangora, Senior Wildlife Officer in charge of the Gbele
Resource Reserve, Mr Haizel of the National Game Reserve Mole, Mr Daniel Kojo
Anko and Mr Eddie Telly of the Bolgatanga and Tamale offices of the Environmental
Protection Agency respectively, Mr Abudulai Ziblim, M.O Abebrese, and Mr Moses
Wondoh all of the Forestry Services Division and Mr. M. Kumah of SRMC.
District Chief Executives and the staff of the districts assemblies, where the projects
are sited and indeed the chiefs and people of various project sites, spent several
hours to interact and discuss the biodiversity problems with the consultant and his
team, for which the Consultant is grateful.
Northern savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project - EA  Page         jjj



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project (NSBCP) is designed with
the primary objective of improving the environment, livelihoods and health of the
people of the Northern Savanna Zone of Ghana through the conservation and
sustainable use of natural resources. Specifically the project aims at the optimal use
of the savanna ecosystem - to restore and conserve agro-biodiversity, medicinal
plants, wood fuel, bush meat and grazing lands- and sustain poverty alleviation.
The project consists of five main components:
- formulation of a policy framework;
- capacity building of key government institutions;
- promotion of biodiversity conservation, research and development;
- developing community-based management actions; and
- programme management, monitoring and evaluation.
Project interventions would be through:
a.   support for community-based savanna woodland and wildlife resource
management
b.   support for improved management and monitoring of savanna biodiversity
through the establishment of special protection areas in addition to and within
the existing system of savanna reserves that explicitly incorporate biodiversity
conservation as an integral management objective.
c.   stimulating and supporting improved land management practices to support
agro-biodiversity (e.g. through reforestation of degraded savanna areas,
cultivation of indigenous crops, etc.) and
Northern savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project - EA  Page       iv



d.   efficient use of extracted savanna products (e.g. medicinal products, bush
meat) that assures local users sustainable benefits.
The purpose of this environmental assessment is to determine the potential
environmental and social impacts of establishing special protection areas in addition
to existing system of savanna reserves and also of agro-biodiversity and medicinal
plants conservation and suggest mitigating measures for any adverse impacts.
The project seeks to tackle the issue of conservation of bio-diversity in the Northern
Savanna with vital components and cross-links to land degradation and
desertification, which are the key natural resource management issues in Ghana.
An impact matrix analysis of the project activities against environmental parameters
indicates that the project generally has strong positive environmental objectives and
orientation. The perceived impacts of the project activities from the impact analysis
show that they are mostly beneficial. No perceived significant adverse impact has
been registered for the project activities.
However, the absorption of communal forests (dedicated forest) into the two
proposed fauna corridors and use of crop lands for medicinal plants cultivation would
have some impacts that need to be addressed.
These impacts include:
- Landuse conflict as a result of the community having to give up potential farming
lands in communal forest for the fauna corridors and medicinal plant cultivation.
- Conflict between humans and animals in the use of water and other resources.
- Loss of cultural beliefs and practices
- Migration to and population increase around the pilot sites.
The impacts would be felt in all the local communities, which derive their livelihoods
from the land and especially from the communal dedicated forests that would form
part of the project sites.
Northern savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project - EA  Page            v



The women in some communities believe that provision of credit during the
harvesting period would enable them to alleviate poverty through shea butter
extraction, processing of dawadawa and malt and par-boiling paddy for sale
To ensure that the project objectives are realised the following mitigation measures
are proposed:
- Restoration of the fertility of old farmlands to enable substantial crop yields from
them
- Provision of funds to support cultivation of medicinal plants and abandoned local
crop varieties
- Provision of dams/dugouts for watering livestock and dry season gardening
- Provision of potable water
- Provision of alternative livelihood source for the communities - credit facilities
especially for women to go into agro-processing
- Provision of facilities and funding for communication, education and training
- Provision of funds to build natural resources management capacities of District
Assemblies.
- Restriction of employment from the project to members of the local communities.
It is further proposed that:
- In each of the pilot communities, a community-based land use model should be
introduced that integrates well with the community's land use system, which
should lead to a community land use plan.
- A baseline survey (inventory) should be conducted to identify products of
commercial value and promoted to take the pressure off the land.
- Initiate efforts to enhance resource availability by locating private, indigenous or
external, government or donor support.
- Evolve terms and conditions of access to and exploitation of renewable resource;
both formal and effective rules.
Northern savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project - EA  Page           vi



The socio-economic survey proposed under the project should include the following:
- Current availability of renewable natural resources - wood stock (plants, bushes,
trees) pasture, soil, water and human food supply conditions.
- Existing supply and demand situation of resources in surplus, equilibrium and
deficit areas.
- Identification of the nature of user communities exploiting each renewable
resource in terms of benefits, e.g. environmental stabilisation and soil
regeneration, provision of wood for fuel and construction materials.
In most parts of the Northern Savanna Zone of Ghana, there is threat from free-
grazing by livestock to forestry activities and therefore, the preference in cultivation
is for tree species which are unpalatable to animals - especially teak which is exotic.
This is dangerous environmentally and a threat to biodiversity. Native species of
plants should be encouraged for ecological tolerance, pest and disease resistance,
long-term viability and adaptation to the environment, though slow-growing.
The project should ensure that communities bordering reserve areas receive
benefits and not only bear cost of maintenance. Emphasis should be on community
participation through a revenue sharing mechanism and community use of park
resources.
Communities fringing wildlife corridors should be educated on the reasons for
community reserves, their responsibilities and the benefits that would accrue to
them to ensure that they are fully integrated in the creation and management of
corridors.
Bushfire control is critical to the success of the project, as bush burning is one of the
most serious problems affecting the environment and causing the present
deterioration of biodiversity. The success of the UNESCO CIPSEG Project and
declaration of no-burning areas by some communities should be promoted in pilot
Northern savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project - EA  Page          vii



communities under the project. An early burning regime can be introduced initially
to the communities as a first step towards a no-burning regime.
Northern savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project - EA       Page               viii



1.0 INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.1   Purpose
The purpose of this environmental assessment (EA) is to identify the potential impacts that
the Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation project (NSBCP) could have on aspects
of the biophysical and socio-economic environment. The document describes
environmental benefits that will occur as a result of the project and the likely mitigative
measures that will be required to avoid and/or minimize the negative impacts.
1.2  Rationale for the Project
Savanna vegetation in many areas of Africa as in Ghana provide valuable environmental
services and serve as habitats for biodiversity and protect soil and water resources
against degradation.
In Ghana the savanna covers about 60% of the land area, supports about 18% of the
population and supplies about 70% of Ghana's total annual firewood and charcoal
requirement estimated at 16 million in3. It also provides medicinal plants (the primary
source of health care for residents), roofing grasses, fencing poles, bush meat and
indigenous farmer crop varieties (cereals, roots/tubers and legumes).
Most biodiversity resources of the Northern savannah zone, which covers more than 60%
of the total savannah ecology are threatened by the expansion of agriculture, over-
grazing, bushfires and inadequate crop management. This has contributed to degradation
of biological diversity as well as the loss of cultural diversity. Similarly, an increasing
number of medicinal plant species are threatened.
Preserving the genetic stock and knowledge of their use will require specific interventions
to ensure that the wild varieties are not completely lost through inappropriate practices or
replaced by introduced varieties. Indigenous crop varieties should be grown alongside
introduced varieties.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       1



The key natural resources management issues in the northern savanna are loss of
vegetative cover and land degradation, resulting mainly from inappropriate farming
practices.
This is inter-linked with other contributing factors such as:
(i)   poorly developed market system that does not price exploited natural resources at
their real economic value thus providing easy and open access to dwindling but
cheap natural resources.
(ii)  inefficient public regulating agencies with overlapping responsibilities
(iii)  inadequate/negligible involvement of key stakeholders including local communities
in natural resource management.
(iv)  weak institutional capacity in the wildlife sector and little involvement of
communities in the management and sustainable use of wildlife resources and
(v)  lack of inter-agency co-ordination in planning/monitoring of natural resource use,
especially at the district and community levels.
The Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project (NSBCP) is designed to address
these problems.
2.0   DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT
The detailed description of the project including a description of each of the five
components and budgets as well as the project design summary (in matrix form) is
reproduced in this report at Appendix 11 from the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). The
$7.6 million NSBCP will complement the $8.7 million GEF support to the high forest
biodiversity conservation component of the ten-year APL Natural Resources Management
Program (NRMP).
Project objectives
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       2



The development objective of the NSBCP is to improve the environment, livelihood and
health of communities in the northern savannah zone of Ghana through the conservation
and sustainable use of natural resources including medicinal plants. The project would
support the promotion of sustainable use and management of Ghana's northern savannah
zone through:
(i)  Improving livelihoods and health status in the Northern Savannah Zone
(ii)  Ensuring social and rural development by building capacity in communities
(iii)  Reducing poverty through better management of productive resources and
(iv)  Increasing community productivity in the more disadvantaged rural part of the
country.
The global environmental objective is to identify, monitor and conserve key components of
the biodiversity of the Northern Savannah Zone through:
(i)   protecting the existing biodiversity in and around reserve areas, adopting an
ecosystem management approach and developing a policy to manage and
conserve the savannah biodiversity.
(ii)  identifying habitats and 'hotspots' of endemic species in need of greater protection.
(iii)  protecting sacred groves, other sources of biodiversity such as medicinal plants
through cultivation and conservation.
(iv)  preserving the knowledge of traditional medicinal plant use and
(v)   maintaining the cultivation of indigenous farmer crop varieties.
Project Components
As described in Appendix 11, the key components of the NSBCP are:
a) Formulation of a policy framework;
b) Capacity building of public, private and civil society organisations in management of
biodiversity;
c) Collaborative Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Development;
d) Community-based Management Actions; and
e) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project            Page       3



3.0 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES, LEGISLATION AND INSTITUTIONAL
ARRANGEMENTS
3.1   Some National Environment-Related Policies
Although no one comprehensive legislation exist in Ghana dealing with the protection of
biodiversity, there are several pieces of biodiversity-related and natural/environment
resources sector-based legislation. Since the 1990s Ghana has developed a number of
policies and legislation, regulations and procedures aimed at ensuring that the
management of biological resources and the environment is sound and sustainable.
Among these are the Wildlife Conservation Regulations of 1971 (Li 685), National
Environmental Policy (1991), National Environmental Action Plan (1991), Forestry and
Wildlife Policy (1994), Environmental Protection Agency Act of 1994 (Act 490), Forestry
Development Master Plan (1996), Draft National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
(1998 ?), Environmental Assessment Regulations of 1999 (LI 1652), National Land Policy
(1999). These and some biodiversity related global policies to which Ghana is signatory,
e.g. Convention on Biodiversity, Convention on Desertification, Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), etc., have been reviewed in
Appendix ll.
NSBCP and National Land Policy (NLP)
The NSBCP will support biodiversity conservation, research and development through:
(a) The development of systems for resource management.
(b) Enhancing protected area management and boundary demarcation.
(c) Improving land management and restoration of degraded land and
(d) Ensuring sustainability of medicinal plant resources
The National Land Policy is supportive of the NSBCP, providing a framework for most of
the land conservation activities identified under the components of the project. The NLP
provides for the full recognition of protected area systems (PAS) and lands outside PAS
for ecosystem maintenance and biodiversity conservation. The policy is conservation
sensitive, emphasising on the placement of shrines, sacred groves and other categories of
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project             Page       4



land (for example the so-called dedicated community forest reserves) with potential for
ecosystem maintenance, biodiversity and scenic preservation under protection and
leaving management of such lands under the collaborative effort of major stakeholders
including the government and the community.
NSBCP and Forest and Wildlife Policy
The Forest and Wildlife Policy aims at conservation and sustainable development of the
nation's forest and wildlife resources for maintenance of environmental quality and
perpetual flow of optimum benefits to all segments of society. Specifically, the policy will,
among others, ensure that the country's permanent estate of forest and wildlife resources
are managed and enhanced for preservation of vital soil and water resources,
conservation of biological diversity and the environment and sustainable production of
domestic and commercial produce.  Strategies for ensuring sustainable resource
management outlined by the policy include PAS expansion, rehabilitation and
development of lands on and outside PAS, protection of endangered plant and animal
species, provision of incentives and assistance for conservation, enhancing public and
civil society involvement in management through consultative and participatory
mechanisms, promoting public awareness and education, and promoting collaborative
research and extension. These are in support of the activities identified under the project
components.
NSBCP and National Environmental Policy/Action Plan
The policy aims at ensuring a sound management of resources and the environment, and
to avoid any exploitation of these resources in a manner that might cause irreparable
damage to the environment. Specifically, it provides for maintenance of ecosystems and
ecological processes essential for the functioning of the biosphere, sound management of
natural resources and the environment, and protection of humans, animals and plants and
their habitats. The policy objectives are clearly in line with the NSBCP component
objectives.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page       5



3.2   World Bank's Safeguard Policies and Guidelines
NSBCP has been categorised during project preparation as a Category B projects under
the World Bank's guidelines and therefore does not require a full environmental
assessment. Given the nature and scope of the project, the intended beneficiaries, the
activities identified to support achieving the outputs and the objectives of the project, and
extent of any perceived impacts, the project requires just a relatively little environmental
and social work in the form of an analysis. For this project, the implementation of certain
activities may trigger the World Bank's Safeguard Policies on Environmental Assessment
(4.01), and to a lesser extent on Pest Management (4.09).
4.0   Methodology for Developing Environmental Assessment
4.1   General
The NSBCP has been pre-appraised in September 2000 by the World Bank, Government
of Ghana and a host of organisations including private and civil society institutions. An
aide memoir, covering essential issues emanating from the mission and wrap up meeting
was prepared and agreed upon by the stakeholders. A draft project design was developed
immediately and is ready to be appraised soon. Accordingly, the EA is based on the draft
project design, which was circulated recently as the draft Project Appraisal Document. The
World Bank Safeguard Policies and Guidelines on Environmental and Social Assessment
require that environmental and social concerns need to be integrated into project design
and implementation as the over-aching objective of the Bank's intervention is sustainability
of poverty alleviation.
Since the project is covering pilot areas spread over the three northern savanna
administrative regions, the assessment could not be carried out at each individual pilot site
or communities living in or on the pilot sites. Only sample reserves and non-reserve areas
have been visited as well as a sampling of communities adjacent to these areas for
purposes of collecting primary data and knowing the extent of community knowledge and
interest in the project. The EA has been carried out by an interdisciplinary team consisting
of a environmental management specialist, sociologist, a natural resources management
specialist, rural foresters, development planners and agricultural specialists.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page       6



4.2   Desktop analyses
Baseline information for the EA was gathered from a comprehensive review of reports on
studies commissioned for NRMP, SRMP and NSBCP or existing in other organisations.
Biophysical Data
All the biophysical data is secondary and has been obtained from studies commissioned
by the NSBCP preparation process. The Environmental Assessment report utilised a
number of documents including the survey reports on (i) flora of the project pilot sites
(Abbiw, 2001), (ii) fauna of the project pilot sites (Aallangdong, 2001), (iii) checklist of
savanna plant species ( Ekpe, 2000), (iv) indigenous farmer crop varieties (Dery, 2000),
and (v) biodiversity change (Adam, 2000).
Socio-economic Data
In addition to reviewing the 1984 Population Census of Ghana and the provisional results
of the 2000 Population and Housing Census and other literature on the socio-economic
characteristics of rural populations in the northern savanna, the studies undertaken by
Prof. Saa Dittoh (a lecturer at the University of Development Studies) in 1999 and Maja
Naur (a consultant with the World Bank) in 2000/2001 for the SRMP were utilised in the
EA. The EA team also made field visits to the project areas, held discussions with and
interviewed a cross-section of people and communities who may be affected by the
project.
4.3   Field Visits
The consultant and his team also visited the pilot areas to gather supplementary data by
interacting with government officials, assembly members, NGOs, opinion leaders, chiefs
and a cross-section of people, especially women and the youth in the communities.
Communities that were visited live in or on the fringes (5-10 km) of existing protected
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       7



areas such as the Gbele Resource Reserve, Mole National Park, Keni-Keni Forest
Reserve, Tankwidi West and Tankwidi East Forest Reserves, Sisili Central Forest
Reserve, White and Red Volta River Forest Reserves. In the field, the team used
interviews and the administration of questionnaires to gather data and information. The
substance of the questionnaire focused on general socio-economic conditions in the
communities, and how communities perceived environmental and social issues and
problems relating to the project as a whole and specifically to the proposed establishment
of wildlife corridors and creation of community dedicated reserves, re-introduction of
farmer crop varieties and enhancement of agro-biodiversity.
4.4   Stakeholder Participation
The spectrum of people to be involved in the project is broad and varied. These include
public organisations (Ministries of Finance; Lands, Forestry and Mines; Food and
Agriculture; Health; Local Government and Rural Development; Energy; Environment,
Science and Technology and Departments; and Agencies such as Forest Service
Division, Wildlife Division, Environmental Protection Agency, District Assemblies), private
organisations (forest and wood industry), and civil society (research and academia,
NGOs, CBOs, women and youth groups and communities).
In view of the direct effect that the project will have on communities and villages within the
pilot areas, a sample of these communities was visited. Staff of MLFM, the Savanna
Resources Management Center, Wildlife Division, Forest Services Division, EPA, MOFA
and a number of traditional healers in the three regions participated actively in the
preparation of the EA. The process has been very participatory and consultative.
A submission of the initial draft of the EA to Ministries, Departments and Agencies
(MDAs), SRMC, industry, NGOs, civil society and communities was made in January
2001. The EA is yet to be presented in a workshop before a broader audience to
consolidate people's views and to incorporate these into the final document. The World
Bank was given the opportunity to review the initial draft document and provide comments
which were used in the preparation of the draft final document.
4.5   Scoping
The basis of scoping has been the identification of those important environmental and
social features of a people, community or area, which need not be adversely impacted
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page       8



upon by the project during its preparation and implementation. These are elements, which
stakeholders have identified as critical and need to be watched, protected and enhanced
during project implementation. These so-called Important Environmental and Social
Components (IESCs) are listed in Table 2. The bounds of the EA have been set arbitrarily,
mainly to the extent of the reserves and the off-reserve area, and the immediate area
occupied by the relevant communities.
4.6  EA Team
The EA team comprised the following:
Adu Boadi Acheampong        Team Leader/Environmental management Specialist
Boakye-Dankwa Boadi   Rural Development Specialist
Musa Abu-Juam         Biodiversity Specialist
Dr. David Millar      Rural Sociologist
Mathew Ababio         Forest Specialist
O.I.Aalangdong        Wildlife Specialist
Adam Abu               Rural Forestry Specialist
Tabi Agyarko          Environmental Specialist
Joseph Osiakwan       Natural Resources Management Specialist
Emmanuel Mante        Collaborative Resources Management Specialist
5.0   DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT ENVIRONMENT
The Northern Savanna forms more than half of the total Ghana land surface cover of
about 239,000 square km (23.9 million ha). The project area lies between latitudes 80 and
110 N and longitude 10 E and 30W. Togo bound it to the east, Burkina Faso to the north,
Cote d'lvoire to the west and the high forest ecological zone to the south (Fig 1). The
economy of the northern savanna ecological zone is based mainly on agriculture, which is
the basis of livelihood for a majority of the population. The small-scale family holding is
the basic unit of production.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project             Page       9



5.1   Physical Environment
5.1.1  Climate and Meteorology
The Northern Savanna has an annual average rainfall varying from 950 mm to 1,300 mm,
which falls during a single rainy season from April to October. The mean monthly
temperatures vary from about 360 C in March to about 270 C in August.
During the dry season, the harmattan prevails, causing high rate of evapo-transpiration
and soil moisture deficiency. Relative humidity is high during the rainy season but falls to
about 20 % in the dry season.
Evaporation from open water on annual basis is very high (approximately 1,840 mm per
annum) and exceeds rainfall (highest being 1,300 mm per annum). The annual moisture
deficit is the major climatic factor affecting the length of the growing season. In the project
area, the period of adequate rainfall for crop growth is about 130 days.
The Northern savanna exhibits varying levels of vegetation including patches of
woodlands which have beneficial effects on the local climate and constitute a natural
barrier to the harsh harmattan winds from the Sahara Desert, thus helping to maintain a
favourable climate for agriculture production.
5.1.2Geology and Topography
The Upper East and the Upper West regions are underlain by granitoids of post Birimian
age while the Northern region is underlain by sandstones, shales and limestones of the
Voltaian system fringed at the west part by the post Birimian granitoids. The granitoids
include granitic and gneissic rocks of grey colours and shades of pink. The gneisses are
folded and also jointed with the rest of the formation. These rocks tend to be hard and less
weathered due to the drier climatic conditions prevailing in the Northern Savanna Zone.
They undergo less severe weathering compared to the southern part of Ghana.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      10



There are two main physiographic regions recognisable in the zone viz. the Savanna High
Plains and the Voltaian Sandstone Basin.
Savanna High Plains
This is a gently rolling plain with average heights between 180 and 300 metres above sea
level. Small rounded hills or inselbergs of Birimian origin can be found occasionally. This
zone is found north of the forested dissected intermediate belt.
With the exception of the Mole National Park, part of which is in the Voltaian sandstone
basin, the rest of the pilot sites for the project are located within this topographic region.
They are: Gbele Resource Reserve, Kenikeni, Nuale, Naaha, Ambalara, Kulpawn
Tributaries, Kulpawn Headwaters, Mawbia, Sisili Central, Chiana Hills, Tankwidi West,
Tankwidi East, Red Volta and Morago forest reserves.
The soils of these areas include ground-water laterites and savanna ochrosols, which are
widely distributed. Less widely distributed are various lithosols and brunosols as well as
acid gleisols and some tropical black earth. The soils of the high plains are more fertile
compared to those of the Voltaian Basin but erosion is a serious problem.
Voltaian Sandstone Basin
This is an almost flat and extensive plain covering more than 80% of the Northern Region.
The bulk of the area falls within heights between 60 and 150 metres above msl. Gentle-
dipping or flat-bedded sandstones, shales and mudstone underlie it, which generally
speaking are easily eroded, resulting in almost flat and extensive plain.
In this basin soils are relatively poor. Laterite is the most extensively distributed soil,
covering 75% of the basin. The upper horizons of the soil become waterlogged during the
rainy season but dry up in the dry season. The texture ranges form silty to sandy loam
when developed on shales and coarse sand when developed over sandstone. The soils,
including the savanna ochrosols (a prominent soil group in the basin) are generally low in
organic matter and nutrients and sometimes highly acidic and very susceptible to erosion.
The river valleys of the region are generally associated with acid gleisols.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       11



5.1.3 Surface and Groundwater Hydrology
The Northern Savanna Zone is mainly drained by the White Volta and its tributaries
Morago, Red Volta, Atankwindi and Asibelika in the Upper East Region, Kulpawn with its
tributary, Sisili in the Upper West Region and the Black Volta, Nasia and Oti in the
Northern Region.
All the principal branches of the Volta flow permanently during the wet periods. In the dry
season the volume of water in the rivers of the two upper regions reduce considerably,
breaking into pools or drying up at the peak of the dry period. The Volta with its tributaries
is an important source of surface water in the Northern Savanna Zone.
Ground water is the most important source of potable water in the project area. However,
the yields are in general insufficient to meet the needs of large communities or irrigation
agriculture. Water supply thus becomes one of the key demands of the project pilot areas.
In all the communities visited, water supply was one of the major concerns raised by the
people.
5.2   Biological Environment
5.2.1 Ecology
There are six broad ecological divisions in Ghana that are rich and varied. The project
area has savanna ecology, which extends into the neighbouring countries. It is classified
into the Guinea savanna and the Sudan savanna ecological zones.
5.2.2 Flora
The Guinea savanna covers more than 90% of the land surface area of the Northern
Savanna Zone but not restricted to it. It stretches from the upper regions down south to
the forest fringes. The zone includes the grassland of the north and the derived savanna
on the fringes of the forests.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      12



An annotated checklist of Savanna Plants of Ghana (Ekpe, 2000), commissioned by the
Ministry of Lands and Forestry provides a comprehensive list of plants of the interior
savanna. The interior savanna contains 1,519 vascular species known to be indigenous or
naturalised to the savanna zones of Ghana. Six species including Ceropergia gemmifera,
Commiphora dalzielii, Ptleopsis habeensis and Eugenia coronta are rare in Ghana and
internationally.
The Guinea Savanna consists generally of fire tolerant, deciduous, broad-leaved trees
interspersed in a ground flora of mainly grass, sometimes more than 1.5m high. The more
important grasses of grazing value include Andropogon gayanus and in densely populated
areas, Diectomis fastigiata, Pennisetum  pedicellatum  and Loudetia togoensis are
common. Other species that occur are Hetropogon contortus, Schoenfeida gracilis and
Aristidaa hordeacea. The common trees include Vitellaria paradoxa (shea), Parkia
biglobosa (dawadawa), Piliostigma thonningli, Combretum glutinosum, Anogeissus sp.,
Detarium sp., Afzelia sp., Prosopis sp., Pterocarpus sp., Butyrospermum sp., Antiaris sp.,
Vitex sp., Piliosstigma sp., Lonchocarpus sp. and Acacia sp.
The Sudan savanna occurs mainly in the Bawku East, Bawku West and Bolgatanga
districts at the extreme northeastern corner of the Northern Savanna Zone. Its total
coverage is less than 10% of the zone. The vegetation is made up generally of open
savanna with short grass interspersed with relatively short low branching deciduous,
broad and thin-leave trees. The common trees include species of Adansonia,
Butyrospermum, Acacia and Parkia.
The vegetation in most of the project area is characterised by a mosaic of forest, savanna,
marshes and grassland. The ecology is for the most part severely altered. This is a
reflection of prolonged unregulated grazing, burning, and intensive cultivation.
There are 72 forest reserves in the northern savanna made up of 23, 33 and 16 in the
Northern, Upper East and Upper West in that order. They range in size from 0.4km2 to
1,116km2. However, many of these areas are under pressure from subsistence farmers,
livestock herders and others who engage in illegal activities in the reserves.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page       13



5.2.3 Fauna
Many of the large wildlife species, which are common to tropical Africa, are also found in
Ghana. They live mostly in the savanna eco-system and include Panthera leo (lions),
Panthera pardus (leopards), Loxodonta aficana (elephants), Syncerus caffer (buffalo),
Neotrigus pygmaeus (royal antelope) and Colobus and Cercopithecus sp (monkeys),
Hippopotamus amphibius and Crocodilus sp. Snakes include pythons and poisonous ones
such as Naja nelanoleuca (cobra), Bitis gabonica (gaboon viper), Lizards, e.g. Veranus
niloticus, often of striking colours are common, as are large snails, spiders and scorpions
which are found in large numbers. The insect fauna is also very rich. The bird species
include Francolinus sp (bush fowl) Falconidae sp (falcons, hawks, and eagles) Psittacus
erithacus (grey parrot), Neophron sp. (vultures), Guttera edouardi (guinea fowl) and many
more.
Savanna fauna comprises at least 93 mammal species, about half of which can be
considered to be large ones, over 350 bird species, 9 amphibians and 33 reptiles. About
13% of the 860 recorded butterfly species in Ghana are associated with the savanna.
The Wildlife Conservation Regulations of 1971, (LI. 685) has schedules which contain lists
of wild animals found in Ghana. Fifty-five of these are completely protected.
5.2.4 Rare or Endangered Species
Populations of many wildlife species found in the savanna have dwindled as a result of
human-induced interventions, mainly through over hunting, inappropriate agricultural
practices and expansion of agricultural land, road construction and bush burning
(Appendix IV). The demand for wild animal meat (popularly called bushmeat in Ghana) is
ever increasing, resulting in widespread hunting (Aalangdong, 2001). As human
populations in the northern parts of the country increases, exerting enormous pressure on
the finite good "land" and creating land hunger among mostly the rural people, intact
savanna woodlands and secondary groves which provide wild animals refuge and source
of food become fragmented and unable to hold large populations of animals.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page       14



5.2.5 Wild Animal Migration
Wild animal movement between reserves, groves and sanctuaries in the northern savanna
may be limited because these are either fragmented or interspersed with farmlands.
Studies have shown that wild animals move from Togo into Ghana and vice versa, using
gallery forests along the Red Volta River. It is also on record that wild animals move from
the GEF supported Nazinga Game Ranch in Burkina Faso to farms on the Ghana side of
the Ghana-Burkina Faso border. Communities outlying protected areas have occasionally
had their farms and property destroyed by wild animals mainly elephants that move
outside the reserves, particularly in the dry season, in search for water and food. In 1997
elephants invaded some villages including Widinaba, Zongoiri, Nangodi, Sekoti and
Datoko, all at the fringes of the Red Volta Forest Reserve, which is a natural trail for
elephants moving from Togo into Ghana. Where villages received no help from the staff of
Wildlife Division in driving these animals back into the reserves (or gallery forests) they
resorted to killing the rampaging animals.
5.3  Socio-Cultural Environment
5.3.1 The People
According to provisional results on the 2000 Population and Housing Census released by
the Ghana Statistical Services Division, the population of the three northern regions
(Northern, Upper East and Upper West) stands at 3,346,105. The Northern region carries
the highest human population of 1,854,994, followed by the Upper East region with
917,251 and the Upper West region with 573,860 in that order. However, population
densities follow the reverse order - 104 persons/km2 for Upper East, 31 persons/km2 for
Upper West and 26 persons/km2 for the northern region. Land hunger is greatest in the
Upper East, where soil productivity is lower and climate harsher than in the two other
regions. Most areas in the three regions are food deficient, but food security situation is
worse in the Upper East region than in the Upper West and Northern regions.
The main ethnic groups in the project pilot areas include the Dagbani, Mamprusi and
Gonja in the Northern Region, Dagaaba and Sisala in the Upper West Region, Builsa,
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page       15



Kassena, Nankani, Grunnie, Nabdam and Kussasi in the Upper East Region. In all these
ethnic patrilineal inheritance is the norm and traditional authority is vested in the chief,
who sits on a skin, an acknowledged symbol of identity of the group and authority.
5.3.2 On-farm livelihood activities
The majority of people in the three northern regions are traditionally crop and livestock
farmers, growing cereals, root and tubers and keeping livestock, mainly goats, cattle and
sheep for subsistence and gain. Outside farming season activities include farm produce
processing and marketing, livestock grazing and "pastoralling", bush fire prevention and
control and renovations/rehabilitation of residential accommodation.
Cattle husbandry plays an important role in the socio-economic life of people of the three
regions. Wealth is mostly invested in cattle. The number of cattle a person owns
determines ones wealth. Cattle are used for bride price and on other important social
occasions. Most cattle owners, therefore, put greater emphasis on the herd size, rather
than the quality of their stock. To them large herds mean security, wealth and prestige in
the community. This leads to overstocking in many parts of the northern savanna area.
With respect to range tenure, grazing is on communal basis and anyone with animals may
graze his/her animals on communal lands in the community where he/she lives. On the
contrary, herders from other communities will have to obtain grazing rights from the village
chief or head of the land-owning group before putting their animals on communal lands to
graze. For inhabitants of a village or community there are no restrictions to the use of the
communal grazing lands provided that the user of the land does not change the land use
form, for instance, into human habitation.
Traditionally, forage crops are not grown and livestock graze on communal pastures, for
which no one has management responsibility. Communal lands are "common good" and
are rather taken for granted as limitless gift of nature available to be used. Even in the
communities, there is growing concern about the rate of deterioration of pastures,
particularly in heavily populated areas.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       16



5.3.3 Land Tenure
In the Upper West and Upper East regions, where most of the project pilot sites are
located ownership of land is vested in the Tindanas (Landowners), while in the Gonja area
of the Northern Region the land-owning authority are the "skins" or chiefs.
In most parts of the three northern regions undeveloped and unoccupied land may be
described as communal lands and subject to common rights. These may be termed as
local 'public' lands since they are for the benefit of the whole community. Access to these
lands is free to all, including strangers and the benefit derived carry no reciprocal
consideration. Such lands are still available in the Tumu gap, the Nadowli east zonal area
of the Upper West Region, Builsa District in the Upper East Region and in most parts of
the Northern Region.
The essential principle is that all lands, including wasteland and unoccupied land, are
owned by the community or group on a communal basis. Benneh (1988) states that
customary tenure easily accommodates concurrent and successive use of the same piece
of land by different groups or persons. For example, one person may have rights of
cultivation while at the same time another could have rights to trees. The acquisition of the
allodial title was made in ancient times by conquest, original occupation or discovery,
purchase or gift. This basic principle establishes the patterns of ownership of land in
Ghana.
The Tindana determines new areas that are to be put under cultivation every farming
season. Once a plot is allocated to an individual the person obtains a user's right and
continues to till it for any number of years. An individual acquires land user's rights by
purchase, gift or through inheritance but he cannot sell it to anyone outside the group. A
person who obtains a user right to land cannot be deprived of the land without his/her
consent - even by the owner of the allodial title. A person who does not belong to the land
owning group can acquire stool or family land only by some form of grant; licence or
contract irrespective of whatever use it will be put to.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       17



5.4   The Pilot Sites
The pilot sites are presented in Table 1 and plotted in Fig. 3. A brief description of three of
the pilot sites namely, Gbele Resource Reserve, the proposed northwestern faunal corridor and
the northeastern faunal corridor is given below. Data on some communities in the pilot areas
have been presented in Appendix V.
Table 1: List of pilot areas
SITE                  DISTRICT           REGION         REMARKS
1. Keni-Keni F.R.     West Gonja         Northern       Forest        reserve
adjourning      Mole
National Park
2 Mole National Park.    West Gonja      Northern       National Park
3. Nuale F.R.         Wa                 Upper West    Forest reserve
3a. Naaha             Wa                 Upper West    Community reserve
4. Ambalara           Wa                 Upper West    Forest reserve
5. Kulpawn Tributaries Sisala            Upper West    Form   part  of  the
F. R.                                                   proposed north-western
faunal corridor
6.  Gbele   Resource Sisala              Upper West    Accommodate Gbele
Reserve                                                village
7. Kulpawn Headwaters  Sisala            Upper West    Forest reserve
F.R.
8. Mawbia F.R.                           Upper West    Form   part  of  the
proposed north-western
faunal corridor
9. Sisili Central F.R.  Builsa           Upper East     Form   part  of  the
proposed north-eastern
fauna corridor
10. Chiana Hill F.R.  Kassena Nankana  Upper East       Form   part  of  the
proposed north-eastern
fauna corridor
11.Tankwidi West F.R.   Kassena Nankana  Upper East     Forest reserve
12. Tankwidi East F.R.   Bolgatanga      Upper East     Forest reserve
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                    Page        18



13. Red Volta F.R.   Bolgatanga/Bawku  Upper East    Form  part  of  the
West                          proposed north-eastern
fauna corridor
Morago F.R.          Bawku East       Upper East    Form   part  of  the
proposed north-eastern
fauna corridor
5.5.1 Gbele Resource Reserve
The Gbele Resource Reserve (GRR) was compulsorily acquired and gazetted in 1975.
The state paid compensation to the land-owning chiefs who failed to share the proceeds
with the people of Gbele village, which is still located in the reserve. GRR has an area of
565 square kilometres, with a typical Guinea Savanna vegetation containing a number of
endangered wildlife species including, Panthera leo, Loxodonta africana, Cercopithecus
p., Syncerus caffer, Kobus sp. and Neotragus pygmaeus.
GRR is situated about 66 kilometres south west of Tumu. The Gbele village was already
in existence before the creation of the reserve. The village has a population of about 180
with a male: female ratio of 1:1. The people cultivate millet, maize, yam and cotton under
bush fallowing. There is only one borehole in the village that provides water for both
humans and livestock. There is no school; the nearest school is at Dasima, about 10 km
from the Gbele village, while the nearest clinic is at Jefisi, 30 kilometres away from Gbele.
Government in the past had intended resettling the people of Gbele village. Government
has abandoned this option and the village will remain within the reserve (See a copy of
letter from WD attached as Annex 1). The Wildlife Division has started drawing up a
comprehensive plan that will include the community as an integral part of whatever
management systems are installed. Essentially, the village will be zoned as a multiple land
use zone, allowing the resident community to stay in and engage in livelihood support
activities without compromising the integrity of the reserve. NSBCP would support WD's
efforts by financing reserve management activities and providing limited infrastructure and
alternative livelihood opportunities to the community.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       19



Another village, Dasima lies on the fringes of the Gbele Resource Reserve. Dasima has a
population of about 1,600 with about 54 houses. It has a primary school with a population
of 103 pupils and a junior secondary school with 40 pupils. A state health centre at Jefisi,
a town about 20 kilometres, provides health care and health services from Dasima which
runs a mobile clinic for the people of Dasima. An indigene of Dasima village has been
trained to provide first aid services to community members when the nurses from Jefisi
are not around.
Communities in and around GRR have expressed their preparedness to participate
actively in the management of the reserve. The chief of Dasima, Kuoro Kejepe Jugbele,
was however worried about having no access to harvesting of resources in the reserve.
However, he said the people of the community would be willing to participate in reserve
management if WD would permit the community once a year to enter the reserve to kill
one or two roan antelopes which the people use in performing certain rituals during their
annual festivals.
5.5.2 The Faunal Corridors
NSBCP would support the expansion of existing forest reserves in the northern savanna
area by assisting communities to establish non-formal community "dedicated" reserves
and linking these to the formally gazetted reserves. These dedicated reserves would form
corridors to existing permanent estates, which are hardly connected. Corridorization would
facilitate the movement of wild animals between reserves and between neighboring
countries of Burkina Faso and Togo. Most of the lands that may form the corridors are
community lands, which are currently used for cattle grazing, and crop farming. While this
is certainly true in the case of the faunal corridor proposed for the Red Volta River (East
and West) Forest Reserves - White Volta River Gallery Forests - Morago River (East and
West) Forest Reserves continuum linking Togo, Ghana and Burkina Faso, most lands
between the Sisili Central Forest Reserve, Podo Forest Reserve, and Chiana Hill Forest
Reserve on the Ghana side and the Nazinga Game Ranch in Burkina Faso are farm
lands.
The question of compensation payment to communities and individuals will not arise since
community and individual lands that are considered for inclusion in the corridors will not be
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      20



acquired by the project. The project does not anticipate displacing communities or
individuals nor will the corridorization result in loss of assets. Individual landowners and
communities will continue to exercise their traditional rights over these lands and have
access to the resources in or on these lands, and they will continue to put the land into
use forms selected by them, including crop farming and livestock grazing. However,
communities and individuals will be encouraged to integrate biodiversity conservation
strategies into the land management systems already adopted. Farm and grazing lands
and other degraded lands within the corridors will be greened, using farming technologies
and strategies such as agroforestry, mixed cropping, fodder cropping, medicinal plant
cultivation, woodlot establishment, organic manuring, integrated pest management (IPM),
etc., with plant species of ecological, socio-cultural and economic importance.
Land owning communities and individuals will be encouraged to collaborate with major
stakeholders such as staff from the frontline Ministries of Lands, Forestry and Mines
(MLFM), Food and Agriculture (MOFA), Local Government and Rural Development
(MLGRD), Energy (ME), District Assemblies (DA) and civil society organizations (NGOs,
CBOs, Trades Associations, Women and Youth Groups, etc.) in environmentally sound
resource management. Using expertise at all levels such as the extension staff of MOFA,
MLFM, Savanna Resources Management Center (SRMC), the project will support this by
creating community (public) awareness on sustainable biodiversity utilization and
conservation while building and strengthening capacities of communities to implement
strategies and plans of action to maintain and enhance ecosystem integrity and health,
population and species of animals and plants. Participating communities will receive
training in technologies such as proper fodder and hay production, no-burn agriculture,
water harvesting, contouring and bunding, game ranching and game restocking,
domestication of wild animals, etc. guarantee traditional rights over these community or
individual lands that will form part of the corridor the project will assist landowners in
establishing and maintaining intact boundaries by planting boundary lines with life fence,
using species that are of significant ecological, socio-cultural and economic importance.
The Sisili Central Forest Reserve-Podo Forest Reserve-Chiana Hills Forest Reserve Corridor
The Sisili Central Forest Reserve-Podo Forest Reserve-Chiana Hills Forest Reserve Corridor
would begin from the Sisili Forest Reserve and encompass the Podo Forest Reserve in
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       21



the Upper West Region and go through the Chiana Hills Forest Reserve in the Upper East
Region of Ghana and link with the Nazinga Game Ranch in Burkina Faso. The Sisili River
runs through this corridor. Since the greater part of the lands between individual reserves
are communally or individually owned, the establishment of the corridor would require that
these lands are "dedicated" as part of the corridor by the communities or individuals
without the lands losing their initial status and use for which they were put to and without
the owners losing any rights on the land.
The areas identified to form the corridor have low population density, with a sparsely
distribution pattern. The areas lack basic infrastructure. The Sisili-Chiana-Kulpawn-
Fumbisi Valley circuit, within which this corridor is situated, is very rich in fauna. The non-
reserved intact savannas of the Sisili River Gap, between Chiana in the Upper East
Region and Tumu in the Upper West and the Red Volta River Gap in the Upper East
Region serve as habitats for migratory elephants from Burkina Faso to Ghana and vice
versa (Aalangdong, 2001). The corridorization would therefore, create suitable conditions
for fauna movement and genetic mixing of free moving animal populations.
The creation of animal corridors would traverse villages and communities. One such
village would be Basisan, which fringes the western part of the proposed corridor. The
village lies on the main Navrongo-Tumu road, about 7 km to the west of the Sisili River. It
has a population of about 500 people, consisting of migrants from Podo (a virtually
deserted village about seven kilometres away on the border with Burkina Faso) and
indigens. The demographic characteristic is typical of all small rural communities in the
northern part of Ghana dominated by children, women and the aged. Some of the able-
bodied have migrated to southern parts of Ghana in search of employment and better
livelihood. The people are Sissalas in ethnic origin and organised into patrilineal lineages,
which are referent for rights to property and other social privileges and obligations. The
majority of the people are of the Islamic faith. Literacy is low among all age groups. The
local primary school has 105 pupils made up of a boy: girl ratio of 6:4.
The town has no potable water and a dugout provides the source of drinking water. During
the dry season women and children walk over three kilometres into the intact savannas to
fetch water from water that gather in pools in the bed of one of the tributaries of the Sisili
River. Basisan has no health post and relies mainly on herbal medicines administered by
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      22



local herbalists. The nearest health post is at Chiana, 30 kilometres away. Inhabitants are
aware of the deadly disease HIV/AIDS, but are not aware of any HIV/AIDS related deaths
in the village.
The people are mostly subsistence farmers, engaged in the cultivation of sorghum, millet,
maize, groundnuts, cowpeas, soya and round beans and vegetables. Charcoal production
is also undertaken on a relatively large scale. The women process sorghum into malt and
pito (a local alcoholic drink) and dawadawa fruit into condiments and spices while the men
produce charcoal for sale at the Navrongo market (45km away) held every fourth day.
There is no grinding mill in the village and the women have to pound their cereals into
flour or have to travel to Chiana to turn dried cereal grains into flour for making pito,
porridge and preparing other dishes.
The Red Volta River (East and West) Forest Reserve -White Volta River Gallery Forest -
Morago River (East and West) Forest Reserve Corridor
The proposed The Red Volta River (East and West) Forest Reserve -White Volta River Gallery
Forest - Morago River (East and West) Forest Reserve Corridor would stretch from the Burkina
Faso/Ghana border through forest reserves on both sides of the Red Volta River, gallery
forests (not gazetted) on both sides of the White Volta River and forest reserves along the
Morago River to the Ghana/Togo border. Communities whose lands are situate within the
corridor include Widinaba and Zongoiri on the eastern fringe and Nangodi, Sekoti and
Datoko on the western fringe of the Red Volta Forest Reserves. These communities farm
on communal lands set aside by the Tindanas and occasionally in the reserved forests.
Livestock holders drive their animals to the Red Volta River.
The Widinaba village is described below as a representative community. Widinaba is
located near the Ghana-Burkina Faso border, about 15 kilometres away from Tili on the
Bolgatanga- Bawku road on the eastern fringes of the Red Volta Forest Reserve. It has a
population of about 560. The people are Kussasis in ethnic origin. The demographic
characteristic is typical of all small rural communities in the northern part of Ghana
dominated by children, women and the aged. Some of the able-bodied have migrated to
the southern part of Ghana in search of livelihoods. People are organised into patrilineal
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       23



lineages, which are referent for rights to property and other social privileges and
obligations. Widinaba is predominantly a Christian community. The local primary school
has 130 pupils, while the junior secondary school has 78. Literacy levels are low. There
are two grinding mills and a permanent market, where people from within and
neighbouring villages meet to trade and socialise every fourth day by inclusive reckoning.
Common diseases prevalent in the community are malaria and waterborne diseases such
as diarrhoea. Riverblindness has been a problem in the past. There are three boreholes
that supply the people with potable water. The only health facility in the vicinity is located
at Zebilla, the district capital, and a distance of about 25 kilometers from Widinaba.
Although the Ministry of Health has provided the community with a mobile clinic, the
people rely mainly on herbal medicine. Orthodox medicinal healthcare is unaffordable to
the people. Culturally, people have been long associated with herbal treatment and still
patronise the use of herbal medicine. There are three resident herbalists and four
traditional birth attendants (TBAs) at Widinaba. The Ministry of Health staff carry out
periodic health awareness and education campaigns on human health including
HIV/AIDS.
The people are predominantly crop and livestock farmers, practising subsistence farming
and cultivating sorghum, millet, maize, groundnuts, cowpeas, soya and round beans and
vegetables. Women engage additionally in income generating activities such as the
processing of sorghum into malt and pito and the dawadawa fruit into condiments and
spices. Shea butter extraction for sale is done predominantly by women.
6.0 EVALUATION OF POTENTIAL ENVIRONENMENAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS OF
PROJECT
6.1   General
The project's development objective is to improve the environment, livelihood and the
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources including medicinal plants. The
project generally has strong positive environmental objectives and orientation as it seeks
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      24



to tackle the issue of conservation of biodiversity in the savanna ecological zone by
addressing human-induced impacts on land, forest and wildlife resources. The
implementation of activities identified under the various components would lead to
minimisation of land degradation, deforestation and desertification, which are the most
pervasive environmental and natural resource management issues in Ghana. In addition,
the project activities would enhance the ex-situ conservation of agro-biodiversity, including
threatened farmers' crop varieties and medicinal plant species on which a large number of
rural people depend for their health care needs. The project will support communities in
regreening degraded areas (on and off reserve lands, sacred groves, community-
dedicated forests, etc.)
The emphasis of the project on building capacities in environmental and natural resources
management at all levels including at the district assembly level, village and community
level and among stakeholders would impact positively on biodiversity conservation.
NSBCP is community-focused and is assisting in developing and implementing
community-based actions including the use, protection and documentation of indigenous
knowledge for enhancing sustainable utilisation and conservation of biodiversity. NSBCP
recognises the need to promote public awareness and education among all stakeholders
and users of biological resources to conscientize them on the importance of wise use and
conservation. The impact from these actions identified under the project components
would be generally positive. Some benefits will be derived in the short and medium term
while others may occur in the long term during implementation of the project.
The project falls under Category "B" of the World Bank Safeguard policies and Guidelines
and the components and the activities to be implemented under the project may trigger (at
negligible extent) the Bank's Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01) and on Pest Management (OP 4.09).
6.2. Important Environmental and Social Components used in the Analysis
Important Environmental and Social Components (IESC) are those components of the
environment and the social set up that have been considered worthy of attention and
protection during project implementation. They have been identified with guidance from
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project            Page       25



the World Bank's Safeguard Policies and the Ghana National Environmental Assessment
Guideline and Procedures and provide the basis for the identification and analysis of
impacts. In evaluating the potential environmental and social impacts of the project, an
impact analysis matrix was used for each component and some activities of the project
(Appendix VI). The activities under each project component were weighed against three
main environmental and social parameters, which are:
- potential ecological implications,
- potential implications for natural resources (plants, animals, agro-biodiversity) and
- potential socio-economic/health implications.
A subjective significant rating of each benefit is provided (very high, high, moderate, low,
or none) as well as a rating for each impact based on a simple system using criteria such
as extent, duration, severity, frequency, reversibility, likelihood of occurrence and
significance of impact.. Positive impacts have been described as benefits. An overall
impact rating for each Important Environmental and Social Component (i.e. physical,
biological and social environment) derived through consideration of both the negative
impact and the benefits are given. In some cases the negative impact (before mitigation)
will outweigh the benefits to be gained. A MODERATE negative impact could be lowered
to an overall negative impact of LOW/NEGLIGIBLE as a result of a benefit to be gained.
In other cases the benefit may be so significant as to give a positive overall impact, and
thus negate the negative impact. All overall impact ratings are based on "before
mitigation'. Also a positive overall impact does not remove the negative impact and it
would still require mitigation action.
Table 2: Important Environmental and Social Components (IESCs)
Physical                   Ecological/Biological    Socio-Economic
Microclimatic              Flora composition and quality   Local population
Local climate              Fauna composition and quality  Social activities
Macroclimate               Rare and endangered species   Cultural values and benefits
Mineral resources          Rare and endangered habitats  Traditional right
Air quality                Biodiversity                Land and tree tenure
Hydrology                                             Assets
Water quality                                         Infrastructure
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       26



Soils                                                    Access to resources
Education/Training
Potable water
Poverty
Aesthetics
Migration
Religion
Jobs/Employment
6.2.1 Potential Ecological Implications
Parameters considered in the subjective rating based on the objectives, outputs and
activities of the components included the ecological integrity and health of critical natural
habitats such as forest and wildlife reserves and scared groves, and areas with high
suitability for biodiversity conservation, species richness, degree of endemism,
maintenance of adequate areas to conserve biodiversity, level of protection of watersheds,
streams and waterways, level of fire control, level of rehabilitation efforts in degraded
reserves and agro-ecological zones.
6.2.2 Potential Implications for Natural Resources
Selected parameters for analysing the potential implication (negative impact or benefits) of
the project on natural resources included level of management of natural resources,
maintenance of natural resources base, level of use of natural resources, level of
plant/animal disease situation and compatibility with defined environmental goals.
6.2.3 Potential Socio-economic/Health Implications.
For the NSBCP, potential socio-economic/health implications may generally be beneficial
and include enhancement of traditional agricultural values and practices, as well as
community livelihood base. The project may affect positively the quality of life, health and
safety of the people; may effect improvement of price of on-farm (agricultural) and off-farm
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                  Page       27



products, enhancement of community benefits, reasonable apportionment of cost and
benefits between private and public organisations, and inter-generational equity and
gender sensitivity.
6.3   Overall Result of The Analyses - Impacts and Benefits
NSBCP will support ecological activities such as the rehabilitation and restoration of
degraded areas (on and off-reserve) with indigenous tree and medicinal plant species; the
establishment and cultivation of field gene banks (ex-situ conservation) with medicinal
plant species, herbs, spices and long abandoned farmer crop varieties in community
dedicated reserves and in species-rich home gardens. Where appropriate and suitable
the project will restock savanna habitats with wild animal species, which are not foreign to
the areas.
(I)   Physical Environment
Impacts
All these ecological activities mentioned earlier above will have no negative impact on the
physical environment. The project will support only a limited community infrastructure
investment such as the construction and rehabilitation work of ranger field stations and
observation posts in protected areas and rehabilitation of SRMC office facilities in Tamale.
It is not anticipated that noise, dust emissions, and loss of vegetation that could result
from these limited civil works would have any adverse impact on the physical environment
(e.g. air and water quality). The severity of these environmental issues will be negligible,
their extent localised and the duration very short.
Rating: Negligible, localised and of short duration .
Mitigation: NONE.
Benefits
The project components and activities (i.e., reserve and degraded area rehabilitation,
woodlot establishment, gene bank and home garden establishment, re-introduction of
farmer crop varieties, medicinal plant cultivation, wild animal restocking, etc.) would
enhance the overall climate, air quality, hydrology, water quality and productivity of soils of
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                Page       28



the northern savanna area positively. Planting of trees and medicinal plant species as well
as indigenous farmers' crop varieties within and outside reserves, and maintaining the
integrity and health of important ecosystems and habitats through adoption of sustainable
exploitation technologies would improve the local microclimate, the quality of water and
air, fertility and productivity of soils and the hydrology in the areas. As these improve, crop
and medicinal plants as well as wild animals and their domesticated counterparts would
benefit as day temperatures and wind movements (especially during the harmattan
period) would reduce. Small savanna plantations would serve as windbreaks and provide
shelter. Globally, greening of savanna landscape would contribute to combating
desertification and reducing greenhouse effect and thereby offsetting C02 build up in the
atmosphere and preventing global warming. The re-introduction of threatened farmers'
crop varieties may have none or negligible effect on soils if suitability match between soil
and species is not considered. Planting these varieties (including leguminous varieties) in
mixtures will increase soil fertility and productivity.
Streamlining national policy issues related to biodiversity conservation (e.g. farmers' right,
patent right, intellectual property right, benefit sharing, etc.) and aligning these to global
protocols and conventions will ensure that the rightful owners of biodiversity reap full
benefits from the sustainable utilisation and conservation of biodiversity. Once
stakeholders receive fair and equitable share of the benefits from rational resource
management, they will adopt conservation and harvesting technologies that will be less
damaging to the physical environment. The review, development and enhancement of
existing organisational, operational and management system through training of
stakeholders and development of leadership qualities, development of management
information systems, and promotion of public awareness and education among all
stakeholders will bring quality in the way natural resources are managed and conserved
and therefore ensure the integrity and health of the physical environment.
Overall effect of the project: (+) High
(11)   Ecological and Biological Environment
Impacts
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                Page       29



Highlighting the importance and use of medicinal plant species in human and animal
healthcare will result in the immediate term in increased harvesting levels. Naturally, as
the resource becomes scarce in areas near people's homes, reserve areas, as repository
of biodiversity and biological resources will be exploited more. The no-project scenario will
be that people will travel longer distances away from their homes to harvest biological
resources in intact savanna forests. The with-project scenario will be that impact on the
ecology as a result of emphasising the use of medicinal plants would be severe in the
immediate term, but localised and of moderate duration since medicinal plants will be
established in home gardens, sacred groves and in degraded areas by practising
herbalists and communities with assistance from the project.
Farmer crop re-introduction will happen under traditional (conventional) mixed farming
systems and cultivation of medicinal plants will be done as mixed crop on farmers' farms
and in home gardens and in either pure stands or mixed stands on degraded areas.
Degraded areas will be planted with indigenous tree, herbs and shrub species. It is
anticipated that these activities will not result in any significant level of pest resurgence,
pest resistance or increased use of pesticides and other agro-chemicals. There will be
negligible or no ecological consequences (including damage to non-target organisms and
natural enemies, contamination and persistence in water, soil and food chain). In terms of
impact, therefore, the with-project scenario will enhance ecological health and enrich
habitats.
The limited investments in infrastructure (rehabilitation of ranger stations and observation
posts for wild animal and bushfire) at the community and village levels will have negligible
or no impact on the ecology and biology of the pilot areas and the savanna ecological
zone in general. Land clearing for infrastructure such as buildings will be minimal and will
hardly affect the ecological and biological integrity of the areas.
Rating: LOW/NEGLIGIBLE
Mitigation: NONE. But in the event that the use of pesticides and other agro-chemicals
could be triggered because there is a rise in pest levels or a decline in soil fertility and
crop yield, mitigation would include the use of organic manure instead of inorganic
fertilisers and the application of integrated pest management (IPM) strategies that could
involve cultural practices, biological control, mixing crop species on farms, crop rotation,
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                Page       30



and minimal use of pesticides {in accordance with the criteria for selection and use of
pesticides as outlined in the World Health Organisation's Recommended Classification of
Pesticides by Hazard and Guidelines to Classification (Geneva: WHO 1994-95), the World
Bank's Operational Policies on Pest Management OP 4.09, and the Ghana National
Pesticides Management Act}. The Ghana National Pesticides Act was derived from and is
consistent with the WHO's pesticides classification and guidelines. The policy of the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture is to use less and less pesticides and other chemical
inputs in agriculture and to promote integrated pest management technologies. Successful
IPM packages have been implemented in rice and other cereals, fruit tree farming in the
northern regions of Ghana where the NSBCP is going to be implemented. Training and
skills upgrading in the application of IPM has been conducted countrywide mainly through
FAO assistance to the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) in what has become
popular as farmer schools in IPM. The extension staff of MOFA and other public and
private organisations with presence in the three northern regions have developed IPM
extension packages which can be taken swiftly to farmers. Ghana's IPM policy is
consistent with the FAO's policy on integrated pest/disease management.
Benefits
In the long term excess produce of medicinal plants from home gardens will be produced
for sale to other herbalists. This will lead to a decrease in the number of herbalists
exploiting medicinal plants directly from intact savanna woodlands, resulting in maintaining
a better ecosystem integrity and health. Ex-situ germ plasm conservation and re-
introduction of farmer's abandoned crop varieties will enhance the integrity and health of
savanna woodland and agro-ecosystems by increasing the degree of biodiversity on home
gardens and farms. In addition, these activities will enhance fauna biodiversity and
populations as food sources and refuge for wild animals may be created. While
corridorization will expand the existing protected area size and provide refuge it will further
enhance biodiversity and genetic mixing of populations as animals begin to move freely
between various habitats existing in Togo, Ghana and Burkina Faso. The development
and implementation of sustainable biodiversity management plans for some reserves and
adjacent lands in close and active collaboration with all stakeholders including
communities and villagers would ensure that having identified their roles, responsibilities,
rights (including the sharing of benefits) and obligations all stakeholders will be committed
to promoting wise resources use and enhancement of the quality and health of these
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      31



areas. The EA reveals that reviewing government policies relating to biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use (e.g. IPR and patent right, bioprospecting protocols,
farmers' right, biodiversity strategy and action plan, etc.) will enhance stakeholder
empowerment, participation and involvement in the management and decision making
process in conservation and benefit sharing, and increase public awareness in
conservation and development of natural resources.
Overall effect of the project: (+) High
(iii) Socio-economic Environment
Impacts
The components and activities identified under NSBCP will have negligible or no adverse
impact on the socio-economic set up in the pilot areas. The project will not acquire any
community or individual lands to carry out any of the planned activities. No activity or
action will lead to displacement, dislocation or resettlement of communities or people
within or outside forest reserves and no compensation payments will be made. The Gbele
village inside the Gbele Resource Reserve will continue to exist in the resource reserve.
The Government of Ghana has formally agreed to allow the people to stay in the reserve
while pursuing an integrated and community collaborative approach toward natural
resources use and conservation. Project activities will not negatively affect
employmenVjobs, health and safety of the people, sanitation and potable water situation in
the communities and will cause no deterioration of the level of poverty in the areas. The
project will not disadvantage women and the youth; it is gender sensitive, supporting this
group in the cultivation of medicinal plants and endangered crop varieties, and in the
establishment of woodfuel plantations. The project targets capacity building for women by
giving them training.
The project will establish two distinct corridors as a network of state forest reserves with
community and individual lands that could be farmlands or intact savanna forestlands set
aside by communities as dedicated forests. The concept of corridorization has been
widely discussed with the affected communities and it has been agreed mutually that they
will participate in natural resource management by still using their lands for those
purposes they were earlier put and without losing any of their traditional rights or
requesting for compensation payment. Community and individual traditional rights,
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       32



including access to land and resources (firewood, non-timber forest products), tree/crop
tenure; cultural values, beliefs and religion will remain intact. The project will not affect
community and individual assets and aesthetics of the areas since there will be no
devastating change in the landscape. There are no archaeological features in the pilot
areas and therefore the World Bank's Operational Policy on Cultural Property OP 4.30 will
not be triggered.
Conservation and cultivation of medicinal plants, endangered and abandoned farmers'
crop varieties, rehabilitation and restoration of degraded lands will not result in land use
conflict since no cultivable land will be set aside specifically for the cultivation of medicinal
plants and therefore taken away from food crop production. The project will rather support
gene bank establishment and reintroduction of crop varieties on lands fertile for crop
production such as in home gardens and on farmers' farms as mixed or polycultures. On
the other hand, woodfuel plantations and medicinal plant cultivation will take place
predominantly on degraded lands, which are poor for crop farming. Since there will be no
competition for land for the cultivation of food crops these activities mentioned above will
not result in localised food insecurity,
Rating: LOW
Mitigation: NONE. The project will extend to farmers well-tested soil fertility enhancing
technologies including the application of organic manure to ensure that where medicinal
plants are cultivated on the same plot with food crops there is no decrease in yield of the
food crop, which could result in localised food insecurity. Farmers will be encouraged by
the project to use manure to improve their farmlands instead of using inorganic fertilisers.
It costs an average of $3 to move a donkey cart of compost to manure half an acre of
farmland.
Some herbalists the team talked to during the field visits expressed the fear that the
cultivation of medicinal plants in home gardens and degraded areas as well as in herbaria
could remove the mysticism and cultural beliefs surrounding traditional medicine practice
since many people would have access at any time to the plants. They feared that the
traditional indigenous knowledge (IK) associated with traditional medicine practice could
also erode with the onset of the project and more so with the artificial establishment of
medicinal plant gardens. These fears are unreal since the project (i) is only interested in
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                Page       33



documenting the type of plants used and for what diseases they are used to treat or cure,
and IK, and (ii) will formulate policies (e.g. IPR, bioprospecting protocols, biosafety
guidelines, policy on savanna resource management, etc.) that will protect their rights.
Furthermore, the project will create awareness and educate the Tindanas and
practitioners of traditional medicines about the need to have the source of their medicine
in close vicinity and also the need to pass on their knowledge to their children, relatives
and others so that these are available to present generations and preserved for those yet
unborn. The project should support public outreach programs to sensitise and educate
herbalists and traditional healers on the need to document indigenous knowledge. The
public outreach program may cost about $50,00O.To mitigate the impact
In the absence of market outlets for re-introduced crop varieties farmers may be dejected
and may want not to replant. The surest way of mitigating such impacts is to support the
selected farmers with inputs such as organic manure, and certified seeds. In addition, the
project should assist in finding markets or buy off excess produce.
Benefits
The formulation of policies relating to biodiversity conservation and sustainable use will
restore and guarantee the traditional rights of communities and individuals, their
intellectual property rights, right of access to land, tree and other resources on the land. It
will also protect their cultural values and beliefs and religion. Education and mass
awareness programs to be carried out by the project will show the relevance of
conservation, management and sustainable use of biodiversity to the communities. The
capacity building component under the project will involve training and skills upgrade at all
levels including at the community and village levels in gene bank establishment,
reintroduction of endangered farmer crop varieties, soil fertility and water management
technologies, park management, etc. The project will increase social activity spectrum of
the communities since they will participate in the implementation of the various activities
identified by the project. Women will be provided with equal opportunities to cultivate
medicinal plants, endangered crop varieties and establish woodfuel plantations from which
they can make extra income.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                Page       34



Communities participating in the project will benefit economically through the sale of
agricultural produce, medicinal plants, fuelwood, and domesticated animals and from
royalties accruing from patent rights and tourism receipts.
The collaborative biodiversity conservation, research and development component of
NSBCP would support the restoration of degraded areas and in the prevention and control
of bush fires. These activities will enhance soil fertility and crop growth, resulting in food
security and income generation for families and communities. Enhancement of agro-
biodiversity and conservation and cultivation of medicinal plants have economic, social,
cultural and spiritual implications for the people of the northern savanna zone. They see
natural resources utilisation in a holistic manner. In some communities certain ceremonies
and festivals have been abandoned because particular animal or plant needed for their
performance are no longer in existence (Dittoh, S., 2000). These activities will provide
benefit to communities.
Since the project is seeking to involve communities in resources management it will
restore to them lost traditional rights of access to reserve lands and to non-timber forest
products. Lands forming the corridors will contain small plantations that will be accessible
to local communities for fuelwood, forage, building and other materials and for sale.
Corridorization will enhance animal biodiversity and lead to increased nature tourism
(once tourism infrastructure is developed and maintained), which may result in job
creation and livelihood improvement of communities. The development and
implementation of biodiversity management plans for some reserves and adjacent lands
would enhance the quality and health of these areas, provide non-timber forest products
and other goods and services which could generate wealth to families and communities.
The project will support income generation schemes to induce collaborative resource
management. Overall, there will be increased availability of goods and income for rural
families and communities.
Improving the livelihoods of the most vulnerable of the society namely, women would
require the establishment and provision of credit facilities. Most women talked to would
need capital to begin income-generating activities such as in agro-processing. Providing
the women with credit facilities would reduce the pressure they exert on the land, e.g.
harvesting firewood.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                Page       35



Members of the local community should be hired temporarily to construct and maintain
reserve boundaries and fire belts in the newly established corridors. Fire volunteer squads
should be recruited and trained and old ones already in existence in some of the
communities should be re-trained and equipped with simple tools to prevent and fight
bushfires. The project should collaborate with the Ghana National Fire Service (GNFS).
It will cost about $1,000 to train and equip a village fire volunteer squad.
Overall effect of the project: (+) High
7.0 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT AND TRAINING FOR THE IMPLENTATION OF THE
PROPOSED MITIGATION MEASURES
7.1   General
At the local level, the project is expected to collaborate with traditional, district and
regional authorities as well as NGOs to develop a consultative process with them for
biodiversity management. These institutions at the district levels have not been effectively
involved nor shown adequate interest in this area of development.
7.2  Institutional Arrangement
There are well-established national institutions capable of developing and monitoring
management frameworks for the conservation and sustainable utilisation of the natural
resources of this country. Below this level existing structures and capacities, particularly at
the district level for biodiversity management is weak and uncoordinated. Even the
structures supposed to be created by law at this level namely the District Environmental
Management Committees (DEMCs) and Community Environmental Committees (CECs)
are not functioning efficiently and effectively due to lack of political commitment at the
local government level. The activities of these local level institutions have not achieved the
desired effects in the past. The implementation of the project components and any
mitigation measures will depend to a large extent on how institutions involved in and
benefiting from the project will work in a participatory and collaborative manner
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      36



To make these institutions effective and efficient in implementing, co-ordinating,
supervising and monitoring programs and projects in biodiversity conservation and use,
proper institutional arrangements will have to be established. The institutions to be
considered at the national, regional, district and community levels should include:
(i) Public organisations
- District Assemblies and their District Environmental Management Committees
- Ministry of Lands, Forestry and Mines
- Wildlife Division of the Forestry Commission
- Forest Service Division of the Forestry Commission
- Lands Department.
- Ministry of Food and Agriculture
- Environmental Protection Agency
- Ghana National Fire Service
-  Ministry of Mines
- Ministry of Health
- National Mobilisation Program
- Institutes of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (e.g. Plant Genetic
Resources Center, Savanna Agricultural Research Institute, Crop Research Institute,
Animal Research Institute, Forest Research Institute of Ghana, Soil Research Institute)
- Council for Scientific Research into Plant Medicine at Mampong Akwapim
- University of Development Studies
- University of Ghana
- Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology
(ii) Private and civil society organisations
- Community-based organisations and women and youth groups and champions at the
community and village levels (e.g. Community Environmental Management
Committees)
- Traditional Authorities (Skins and Tindanas)
-  Non-Governmental Organisations
- Religious church organisations
- Federation of Traditional Healers
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                Page        37



- Private sector
(iii) Programs and projects
- NRMP
-  Village Infrastructure Project
-   IFAD Root and Tuber Project
The institutional arrangements should comprise:
- Contacts to hold discussions to determine the roles of the institutions
- Selection of specific officers to be assigned
- Setting up time table for each action to be taken and
- Discussion of resource and budgetary allocations and schedules of disbursement
Training of trainers workshops will be organised for these institutions to understand the
responsibilities of each other to avoid hold-ups and ensures the success of the
programme.
7.3  Training, Monitoring and Reporting on Environmental Management and
Assessment
According to the country's environmental regulations, Environmental Assessment is an
environmental management tool to be used country-wide at all levels of government (i.e.,
national, regional, district and community levels) to analyse developments with regard to
their environmental and social suitability and impacts and to prescribe mitigation
measures to eliminate or reduce the impact. EAs assist national and local governments
through the district assemblies therefore to track, monitor and where possible modify
development activities. EAs have become useful tools for the analysis of projects and
policies to determine their environmental and social viability and usefulness to the
communities. Where organisational structures such as the District Environmental
Management Committees (DEMC) or Community Resources Management Committees
(CRMC) are not yet formed these will have to be established and strengthened to follow
up on the implementation of environmental management plans and mitigation plans to
offset impacts.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      38



The project will support national bodies, district assemblies and their DEMCs, CECs and
other major stakeholders to build their capacity to implement and monitor in close
collaboration with communities' action plans to address future social and economic
impacts of biodiversity conservation and management. The process of ensuring that
systems are built at all levels including at the local level for impact management and
decision making should include:
(i)  Identification of all the stakeholders at the national, district and community levels
(ii)  Identification of the capacities and needs of participating bodies including those of
communities and villages
(iii)  Development and provision of environmental assessment manual prepared by
MLFM with the assistance of the EPA and adapted to the local situation
(iv)  Provision of logistics such as means of implementation including transportation
(motorbikes, bicycles)
(v)   Recruitment of qualified field officers to provide research and extension service to
those implementing various components of the project
(vi)  Organisation of training programmes to equip project participants, beneficiaries,
facilitators and extension officers in the field for effective monitoring of progress and
impact, dissemination of data and information and communication with and among
the communities (e.g. teaching them the use of aids that are known to the people
and therefore can sustain their interest)
(vii)  Formulation of effective and efficient monitoring system that is sensitive to the
needs of all participants and project beneficiaries. Such a system comprising
monitoring indicators identified in the EA document to track mitigation of any
perceived impacts will have to be incorporated into the general M&E system that
has been developed for the NSBCP.
At the national level, the Ministry of Lands, Forestry and Mines (MLFM) will be responsible
for the implementation of the impact monitoring and mitigation (environmental
management) plan, ensuring that measures required for mitigation are carried out and
that they achieve their objective in this regard. The MLFM desk officer with responsibility
for monitoring the Savanna Resources Management Project (SRMP) will have oversight
and provide technical backstopping to the Savanna Resources Management Center.
MLFM will transfer the implementation responsibility to the Savanna Resources
Northerm Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      39



Management Center at Tamale which will designate an individual to be responsible for
monitoring progress of the environmental management plan and the Northern Savanna
Biodiversity project as it relates to addressing impacts. As indicated in the M&E system
developed for NSBCP and since the district assemblies and the communities are involved
in the implementation of the project they should be given responsibility in implementing
the impact management plans and monitoring progress as well and feeding back to
project management. The structures at the various levels should be networked to provide
effective and efficient monitoring.
Environmental effects monitoring is necessary to ensure that the predicated impacts are
addressed effectively and efficiently through the mitigative measures indicated. Three
main objectives of monitoring are (i) to ensure that any additional impacts not identified in
the EA document are addressed appropriately; (ii) to ensure that the mitigative actions are
appropriate for addressing the impacts; and (iii) to feed information back to management
in order that appropriate modifications can be made to either the operational activities or
to the environmental management plan in terms of mitigative measures to be applied.
To ensure that environmental effects are mitigated effectively a monitoring unit should be
established at MLFM and SRMC. These units would consist of the monitoring officer who
would be assisted by field officers from the district assemblies' DEMCS and at the
community level by appropriately the chairman of the CECs or a champion, all of who
would have received basic monitoring training. Persons involved in the monitoring duties
will do so in accordance to a manual for monitoring that would be prepared by the Policy
Planning Monitoring and Evaluation Division of MLFM. Such a manual would contain
actions on baseline data requirements and how these should be identified, collected and
used, identification of key indicators, monitoring schedule, measurement techniques,
interpretation of results and presentation of findings, and the application of findings to
management decision making.
Monitoring should be carried out on an on-going basis. Monthly monitoring reports would
be provided to the management team for information, discussion and action. An
environmental management plan will only be effective if monitoring is carried out efficiently
and effectively and if the management team is prepared to act upon monitoring results
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      40



and recommendations. This requires effective and efficient compliance and enforcement
mechanisms at all levels. Monitoring indicators will include:
* The level of cooperation received from communities
* Acreage of degraded land reclaimed and rate of reclamation
* Percentage of farmers cultivating re-introduced local varieties, percentage sold, pricing
and rate of sale
* Changes in the income levels within the communities
* Level of awareness created for biodiversity and agro-biodiversity in the communities
* Rate of incidence of bushfires
* Number of communities that are able to maintain no-burn regime
* Level of interaction between communities and project implementers
. Availbilty of medicinal plants and establishment of herbal clinics and the rate of
patronage of these clinics
* Rate and nature of complaints from communities about wildlife raiding crop
* Improvement in essential life support sysems and quality of life
* Rate of development of social and economic investments (e.g tourism infrastructure)
* Number of training programs conducted every year
Skill upgrade and development and community awareness creation activities should
include:
- Short courses for community champions and District Assembly staff
- Workshops on parks and reserve management
- Seminars for ranger/community leaders
These programmes should be made in such a way as to ensure gender equity.
About $50,000 would be needed to organise training programmes at each district level.
8.0   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1   Conclusions
(i)   The general conclusion of the overall project is that it is generally environmentally
and socially positive.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      41



(ii)  If the proposals put forward were implemented, the environment of the beneficiary
communities would be improved in addition to enhancing their living conditions.
(iii)  The project may have residual impacts that can be mitigated.
(iv)  Local people in the communities to be affected by the project will give the project
their full support
8.2 Recommendations
To ensure that project goals are realised the following recommendations are proposed:
(i)  In each of the pilot communities, a community-based land use model should be
introduced, which integrates well with the community's land use system that should
lead to a community land use plan. In this wise land use systems should be
developed which make for optimal use of modern technologies and traditional local
experiences. The experiences of the land and water management component of
the GERMP implemented by the Ministry of Food and Agriculture and SRMP can
be utilised as the savanna areas were a priority and agricultural officers were
trained for this purpose.
(ii)   The northern savanna zone is home to one of the poorest of the rural groups in
Ghana.  It is, therefore, essential that an alternative livelihood source for
communities targeted under the project are identified which can serve as basis of a
cash economy.  The alternative livelihoods should help create jobs and
opportunities for cash income during the long dry season experienced in the area.
Discussions held during field visits indicate that the communities are ready to co-
operate provided they are empowered to go into other ventures, dams/dugouts are
constructed to enable them to go into dry season gardening, or their depleted lands
are restored. In this wise the promotion of gum arabic from Acacia senegal has
commercial potential especially in the Upper East Region. Trees of Acacia senegal
yield gum for over 15 years. Apart from gum arabic, the trees provide browse,
support honey production, and use of tannin. The gum is used in preparation of
ink, manufacture of medicine, chewing gum confectionery, soft drinks and
hardwood used in the manufacture of such items as tool handles.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      42



(iii)  A baseline survey (inventory) should be conducted to identify products of
commercial value and promoted to take the pressure off the land. The women in
some communities believe that provision of credit during the harvesting period
would enable them to alleviate poverty through shea butter extraction, processing
of dawadawa and malt and par-boiling paddy for sale.
(iv)  In most parts of northern Ghana vegetation restoration has been done with fast
growing exotic species - especially teak in monocultures. This may be
environmentally unwise and a threat to biodiversity.  Native species of plants
should be encouraged for ecological tolerance; pest/disease resistance, long-term
viability and adaptation to the local environment though slow growth.
(v)   The project should ensure that communities bordering reserve areas receive
benefits and not only bear cost of maintenance.  Emphasis should be on
community participation through a revenue sharing mechanism and community use
of park resources. The idea of area reservation is not new to the communities.
However, most of them have been forced to go into the forest reserve to farm
because their old plots have become so depleted. The depleted lands have to be
restored before they are prevented from going into the new areas to be
demarcated.
(vi)  Communities fringing wildlife corridors should be educated on the reasons for
community reserves, their responsibilities and benefits to them to ensure that local
communities are fully integrated in the creation and management of the corridors.
(vii)  Bushfire control is proposed by the project. This is critical to the success of the
project, as bush burning is one of the most serious problems affecting the
environment and causing deterioration of biodiversity.  The success of the
UNESCO CIPSEG project and declaration of no burning areas by some
communities should be promoted to pilot communities under the project. An early
burning regime can be introduced initially to communities as a first step towards a
no burning regime.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      43



(viii) The socio-economic survey proposed under the project should include the
following:
- Current availability of renewable natural resources - wood stock (plants, bushes, and
trees) pasture, soil, water and human food supply conditions.
- Evolution of supply and demand situation for resource in surplus, equilibrium and
deficit areas.
- Identification of the nature of user communities exploiting each renewable resource
- Derived benefits (non-consumptive benefits of environmental stabilisation and soil
regeneration, and consumptive benefits of wood fuel and construction materials
extraction)
- Existing management efforts to enhance resource availability (identify whether public
or private, indigenous or external).
- Terms and conditions of access to and exploitation of renewable resources (whether
rules are formal and effective).
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                   Page        44



REFERENCES
Acheampong, E. (1988)  Endangered Timber Species of Ghana in Report of the
Conference  and  Resource  Conservation  for  Ghana's
Sustainable Development, Accra, 28-30 April, 1987 Vol. 2
Technical Papers
Asibey, E.O.A. (1969)    Wild Animals and Ghana's Meat Supply - Shai Hills Meat
Production Project. Department of Game and Wildlife (mimeo)
Benneh, G. and Dickson,
K.A. (1988)            A New Geography of Ghana Second Edition Longman Ltd.
Kaplan, I et al (1971)  Area Handbook of Ghana
Anonymous (No date). The Political Economy of Colonialism in Ghana, A Collection of
Documents and Statistics 1900-1960
Min. of Lands & Natural Resources (1979). Report of Land Use Planning Committee.
Environmental Protection Council (1991). Forestry and Wildlife, Pages 152-191, Part 4 in
Ghana Environmental Action Plan Vol. 2 - Technical Background Papers by Six Working
Groups. Land Management Pages 192-254.
Advisory Committee on
Environmental Changes in the Sahel National Academy Press Washington D.C.
Advisory Committee on
Agroforestry in the West African Sahel. National Academy Press Washsington D.C.
Anonymous (1997). Designing Community-Based Development. Technical Consultation
on Decentralization - Rome 16-18 December 1997 Sustainable Development Dimensions.
World Bank (2001)  Draft Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant from The
Global Environment Facility
MLF (1997).       Environmental Impact Assessment, Natural Resource
Management Project. Main Report
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page       45



MLF (1996). Forestry Development Master Plan 1996 - 2020
Ekpe, P.K. (2000). Savanna Plants of Ghana
Abu, A. (2000). Savanna Resources Management Project Biodiversity Analysis of the
Northern Savanna Areas of Ghana.
Aalangdong, 01.. (2001) Fauna Survey for Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation
SRMP (2000). Northern Savannah Biodiversity Project, Activities and Budget of the
Wildlife Division.
"Pilot Communities for Biodiversity Conservation of Indigenous Crop Varieties,".
Dery, A. B. (2000). Management of Traditionally Protected Areas such as Sacred Groves
and Underlying Areas in Northern Ghana. Environmental Protection Agency (Northern
Region).
Abu-Juam, Musa. (1997). The Management of Endangered Plant Species in the
Savannah Areas of Northern Ghana. A paper presented at the Workshop on Land
rehabilitation in the Northern Savannah Areas, 24th - 28 February 1997. Botany Unit of
Planning Branch, Kumasi, Ghana.
Asedem, G. (1996). Nutritional Status of Under Fives in Upper East Region," paper
presented at a "Workshop on Vitamin A Supplementation" April, 1996, Navrongo.
Regional Nutrition Officer.
Abbiw, Daniel K. (2000). Northern Savannah Biodiversity Conservation (NSBC) Project.
Botany Department, University of Ghana, Legon.
Abu, Adam (2000). Restocking of Savanna Degraded Lands," Draft Report by.
Aning, George (2000).  Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants for Animal Healthcare:
Report on the Pre-appraisal Mission on the Ghana Northern Savanna Biodiversity
Conservation Project (NSBCP), Veterinary Scientist, Animal research Institute (CSIR).
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project             Page       46



APPENDIX I
GHANA NORTHERN SAVANNA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Environmental Analysis
Draft Terms of Reference
Introduction
In Ghana, savanna woodlands provide valuable environmental services, a crucial refuge
for native biodiversity, and also protect soil and water resources against degradation.
About 70% of Ghana's total supply of firewood and charcoal comes from savanna zones
which also provide medical plants (the primary source of healthcare to residents), roofing
grasses, fencing poles, bush meats and fruits. The northern savannas are a source of
important farmer crop varieties (cereals, roots/tubers and legumes). The future survival of
the majority of indigenous crop varieties is in doubt due to over-exploitation and
environmental degradation. Similarly, an increasing number of the medicinal plants are
threatened. Preserving these genetic stocks and knowledge of their use will require
specific interventions to ensure that these wild/native varieties are not completely lost
through inappropriate practices or replaced by introduced varieties.
The primary objective of the proposed project is to improve the environment, livelihood
and health in the northern savanna zone of Ghana through the conservation and
sustainable use of natural resources including medicinal plants.  More specific, the
proposed project aims to enhance the sustainable use of savanna resources (medicinal
plants, wood fuel, bush meat, farmlands, grazing lands) through interventions designed to:
a.         Support community-based savanna woodland and wildlife resource management;
b.         Support improved management and monitoring of savanna biodiversity through the
establishment of special protection areas in addition to and within the existing system of
savanna reserves that explicitly incorporate biodiversity conservation as an integral
management objective;
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project            Page       47



c.          Stimulate and support improved land management practices to support agro-
biodiversity (e.g. through reforestation of degraded savanna areas, cultivation of
indigenous crops, etc.), and,
d.    Efficient use of extracted savanna products (e.g. medicinal products, bush meat) that
assures local users sustainable benefits.
Objectives
The purpose of the environmental analysis is to assess the potential environmental and
social impacts of establishing special protection areas in addition to the existing system of
savanna reserves and of agro-biodiversity activities.
Scope of Work
In an effort to gain an understanding of the potential environmental and social impacts of
the project, the consultant will:
(i)   Review Ghana's national environmental legislation, policies, regulations and procedures in
conjunction with the World Bank's safeguard policies and identify possible gaps. In this
context, particular attention needs to be paid to the country's legislation pertaining to
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and the role of local communities, the
national biodiversity strategy and action plan and the Traditional Medicine Practice Act.
(ii)   Review Ghana's land use policy with regard to the establishment of new protected areas
and the potential resettlement of the population living in the selected project sites.
(iii)   Assess the environmental impact of increased social and economic infrastructure in light
of the establishment of new protected areas particularly in community dedicated forests
and faunal corridors.
(iv)   Propose appropriate and costed mitigation measures including training for the identified
impacts above.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                  Page       48



(v)   Assess the potential environmental and social impacts of proposed activities relating to
agro-biodiversity, medicinal plant conservation and cultivation and propose appropriate
costed mitigation measures.
(vi)  Propose appropriate institutional arrangements including training needs and costs for the
implementation of the proposed mitigation measures.
(vii) Propose an environmental assessment process enabling District level institutions, in co-
operation with communities, to address impacts of future social and economic investments
in biodiversity conservation and management.
(viii) Propose monitoring indicators for such social and economic investments and other
aspects as necessary for inclusion into the project's monitoring system.
The Report
The environmental analysis report will include an Executive Summary in English, a
discussion of the policy, legal, resettlement, land use, and administrative framework with
emphasis on biodiversity conservation and sustainable use, a description of the proposed
project, a description of the current and proposed protected areas.
Furthermore, the report will include:
A description of the potential environmental and social impacts of social and economic
investment as a result of the proposed project,
A discussion of the proposed mitigation measures including training and their costs as well
as appropriate institutional arrangements to facilitate the environmental management
under the proposed project.
The Consulting Team
Ideally, this environmental analysis will be conducted by an individual consultant with the
minimum of Msc./MA Degree in a related discipline. The Consultant must have a
background in environmental assessment procedures.  Furthermore, the consultant
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                 Page       49



should be conversant with biodiversity issues and have rich working experience in Sub-
Saharan Africa.
Duration
The assignment will take 8 weeks (fieldwork and final report). The report should be
available by November 30 2000.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                    Page       50



APPENDIX 11
SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF NSBCP
Background
The key issues on natural resource management in Ghana are land and forest degradation, loss of
flora and fauna biodiversity associated with unsustainable harvesting levels in both the high forest (timber
extraction) and savanna zones (poles/woodfuel and medicinal plants), and unsustainable land use practices
especially crop farming and livestock grazing.
The context of this GEF component is to complement the APL Natural Resources Management
project: NRMP I (2 years) , and the proposed NRMP II (4 years) and NRMP III (4years). The development
objective of the NRMP is to protect, rehabilitate, and sustainably manage national land, forest and wildlife
resources and to sustainably increase the income of rural communities who own these resources. The global
environmental objective is to increase the ecological security of the globally significant biological resources,
especially within threatened tropical moist forest ecosystems. A 6-year GEF biodiversity component of $
8.7 m (focusing on the southern high forest) was linked to NRMP I and II. Although the NRMP I was
approved on May 15, 1998, it became effective on June 9, 1999. This 6-year Savanna biodiversity GEF
project (focusing on the three northern regions) will overlap with the proposed NRMP II for 2 years and
NRMP III for its 4 years.
The Sudan and Guinea savanna zones include the northern, drier, two thirds of the country, where
the main economic activities are the production of annual crops (cereals, legumes, root crops, cotton) and
livestock. While the northern savannas are home to about one third of wildlife species in Ghana, annual
bushfires affect 50 percent of the savannas, destroying species of flora and fauna and reducing biodiversity.
The savanna zones are also under tremendous pressure from growing human and livestock
populations, agricultural expansion, inappropriate farming practices, deforestation, bush fires, and
introduction of new crop varieties that are replacing indigenous varieties. All these activities contribute to
land degradation and loss of biodiversity are are identified in the NEAP as one of the major environmental
issues in Ghana. A number of problems can be directly linked to increasing land degradation. They include:
(i) a poorly developed market system that does not price exploited natural resources at their real economic
value while providing easy (open) access to dwindling communally-owned natural resources; (ii) inefficient
public regulating agencies with overlapping responsibilities; (iii) inadequate/negligible involvement key
stakeholders including local communities in natural resource management; (iv) weak institutional capacity
in the wildlife sector and little involvement of communities in the management and sustainable use of the
wildlife resource; and (v) lack of inter-agency coordination in planning/monitoring natural resource use,
especially at the district and field levels.
All forest and savanna woodland reserves in Ghana are owned by the local communities and
traditional authorities and the govemment's role is to manage these resources in trust for the people. The key
objectives of Government natural resource policy include: (a) ensuring sustainable production of forest
products, (b) preventing further environmental degradation due to deforestation and inappropriate farming
practices, and (c) stimulating community involvement in management of natural resources and enhanced
economic well-being of rural communities. Specific policy and institutional reforms that were identified to
address these objectives are directed at four areas: development of procedures for allocating timber
utilization contracts, forest revenue policy, trade policy, and restructuring of forest and wildlife sector
institutions. Technical and analytical studies to design a coherent sector-wide program of policy and
institutional reforms have been undertaken, resulting in the adoption of a new National Forest and Wildlife
Policy in 1994 based on three pillars of resource protection, sustainable production, and involvement of local
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                            Page         51



rural people. Subsequently, a system-wide master plan, the Forest Development Master Plan (1996-2020),
was developed to implement the policy. Companion Wildlife legislation is also being prepared.
Medicinal plants and the traditional knowledge of their use have been the mainstay of healthcare in
northern Ghana for centuries. While the government is doing all it can to increase the availability of modern
healthcare, especially in rural areas, the majority of public health posts are poorly equipped and administered
and per capita allopathic drug expenditure is low. Two important government actions have given greater
acceptance to the value of traditional healthcare in Ghana. First, to regulate the practice of traditional
medicine, register practitioners and license premises for practice and to regulate the preparation and sale of
herbal medicines a Traditional Medicine Practices Act (No. 575) was passed in 2000. Apart from being the
first of its kind in Africa, this Act not only legitimizes traditional medicines and healers, but may also put
more pressure on the affected plants species due to the increased national attention. Since the majority of
plants used for traditional medicines are harvested from the wild, it is important that this basic resource is
protected through sustainable harvesting and/or cultivation. Second, MOH has established a Traditional and
Alternative Medicine Directorate (TAMD). The Directorate will serve to integrate a safe and regulated
traditional medicine practice into the National Health System, and play an important intermediary role
between MOH and MLF. Such a role will help link the demand for plant-based drugs and their sustainable
supply from in-situ and ex-situ sources.
Other relevant government policies include: (a) the draft National Biodiversity and the National
Forest Protection Strategy which seek to: (i) safeguard genetic diversity and diversity of indigenous faunal
and floral species through an ecosystem approach to management within all ecological zones, (ii) improve
knowledge of the distribution and status of rare, threatened and endemic fauna species through targeted
surveys, (iii) enhance protection of critical areas for migratory species through improved monitoring and
habitat management, and (iv) ensure sustainability and preserve genetic diversity within non-timber forest
species that are collected by rural populations for medicinal and consumptive uses through improved data
collection, regulation of harvesting, and proactive management; and (b) the National Land Policy (1999)
which seeks the application of the principles of sustainable resource development to the management of the
country's land and water resources.
Project Objective and Components
The proposed NSBCP project would be implemented over six years and focus on the three northern
regions of Ghana. Its objectives seek improvement in environment, healthcare and economic livelihood, and
the conservation of globally significant biodiversity in the northern savanna zone and would complement the
last six years of the NRMP APL, and the baseline activities would be covered under the NRMP II (2 years)
and NRMP III (4 years). The NSBCP consists of five components aimed at promoting application of
improved savanna land and natural resources management techniques, involvement of communities in
biodiversity and savanna resources conservation, management and use. The proposed project would apply
lessons learnt and complement the community-based management planning processes being generated by
the NRMP I for forest reserves, wildlife protected areas, savanna woodland and integrated community-based
watershed management, from which specific action programs to enhance global benefits of savanna
ecosystems would be developed and tested.
Project Component 1: Formulating the Policy Framework (US$0.50 million)
The objective of this component is to assist responsible ministries and agencies (e.g., Ministry of
Lands and Forestry, Ministry of Health, SRMC, etc.), in defining and institutionalizing effective and long-
term resource policies, strategies harvesting guidelines and management while promoting sustainable in-situ
conservation and ex-situ, cultivation-oriented activities that support the local economy of the northern
savanna areas. The project would ensure that policies/strategies developed would fit well into the draft
National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan and the National Forest Protection Strategy.
Project Component 2: Capacity Building (US$0.80 million)
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                            Page         52



This component would support: (a) a review of existing organizational, operational, policies, and
management systems; (b) professional development, leadership and training; (c) development of data,
inventory and management information systems to support natural resources management; (d) development
of people-sensitive participatory protected areas management planning guidelines; (e) public awareness and
education programs related to Park/Reserve management; and (f) support traditional medicine services and
delivery systems and organizations.
The project would support TAMD to assist healers to establish regional Traditional Healers
Associations (THAs) that are mandated to register all traditional health practitioners, including addresses
and areas of specialization. In addition, the project would assist the regional THAs, in particular Traditional
Birth Attendants, to work closely with regional MOH offices and the Ghana HIV/AIDS Network
(GHANET) in the use of traditional treatments for HIV/AIDS associated opportunistic diseases.
A small herbarium would be established at Tamale, NR with a qualified plant curator who would
work under the Project Coordinator and be responsible for identifying and maintaining plant collections,
with specific reference to medicinal plants species and indigenous farmer crop varieties. The Tamale
herbarium would establish links with local (e.g., Ghana Herbarium, Aburi Botanical Gardens, etc.) and
international herbaria. The species verification would be made at the National Herbarium, University of
Ghana, Legon. In addition, the project would support establishment of databases at Tamale, NR, Wa, UWR,
and Bolgatanga, UER with links to the central database at the University of Ghana, Legon on usage,
distribution and status of      and medicinal plants used in human and livestock healthcare. The database
would draw together information from oral, traditional, modern literature and herbarium collections. This
systematic documentation and evaluation of threat, rarity and demand would be a first for the West Africa
Region in terms of its scope and comprehensiveness and would have global and regional, as well as national
benefits.
The project would fund under this component expenses for:
-  purchases of goods including vehicles, motor bikes, computers, GIS hardware and software, data acquisition such
as satellite images and maps;
-  consultant services, both local and foreign technical assistance for organizational and institutional review, policy
studies, community animators, park management planning, GIS;
*  training in the form of local, regional, and national workshops; domestic and overseas training;
*  salaries and allowances for incremental, contractual, temporary, and traveling MLF staff;
=  incremental operating costs:- for vehicles, equipment and facilities maintenance, publications and information
materials.
Key outputs from this component would be: (i) formulation and actualization of a long-term sustainable
strategy for savanna resources management particularly those within and around key resource sites; (ii) a
clear action plan for implementing community driven conservation programs; (iii) strengthened MLF, MOH
and other agencies' professional capacity (field and operational staff) in managing northem savanna
resources; (iv) a stronger voice for local communities in key policy issues affecting savanna resources
management; and (v) a functional spatially referenced GIS to monitor ecosystem status and changes.
Project Component 3: Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Development (US$3.30 million).
This component would support: (a) developing systems for regional and community biodiversity
management, (b) protected area and boundary demarcations and conservation of new and additional
sites/areas including biodiversity corridors, (c) improved land management and restoration of degraded lands
in 3-5 pilot areas, (d) sustainability of threatened and declining agro-biodiversity and protection of
indigenous crops, and (e) harvesting guidelines and ex-situ cultivation for sustainability of medicinal plant
resources. In particular, the component would fund studies and surveys, the restoration of off-reserve
degraded lands, the formulation of community-based park/reserve and off-reserve bushfire prevention and
control schemes, the restoration of soil fertility and promotion of demonstrated farming/agriculture methods,
formulation and implementation of management plans for the selected sites, and education and training.
Management plans and remedial programs which would be developed and implemented for pilot areas,
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                                Page          53



including at least 10 priority areas of protected forests and three wildlife reserves with the active
collaboration of local communities concerned. Adjacent social and agricultural systems would be taken into
account and selection would be on the basis of biological diversity in the area, main threats, extent of
participation from the communities, and net global benefits. The lessons learnt from these pilot activities
would feed into the formulation of regional models for Park/Reserve management and continuity of
productive (nutritive) indigenous farmer crop varieties and agricultural practices and would form a platform
for the implementation of a long-term strategy for biodiversity conservation in the northern savannas.
Sub-component 3(a): Regional and Community-based Management Systems
The project would support surveys for gathering basic biological (ecological) and socio-economic and other
primary level data, identification and mapping of endemic species and genetic 'hotspots', and determination
of ecosystem changes and biodiversity status. Wildlife reserves in Ghana harbor a large number of wildlife
species. Mole National Park, for example, has about 93 species of mammals and over 300 species of birds
although this list is not exhaustive. There is no substantive list of wildlife species for Gbele Resource
Reserve. Ecological studies on threatened, endangered species (e.g., black and white colobus, leopard, lion,
yellow backed-duiker, elephant), and problematic species (elephant) would also be undertaken in these
reserves. These studies would include census, determination of distribution and movement, population
dynamics, and monitoring of population trends in the reserves. Data on the flora and vegetation types in the
reserves would also be collected for sound management of these forest and wildlife reserves.
Sub-component 3(b): Protected Area Boundary Demarcation and Community Resource
Conservation.
This sub-component would also support protected area boundary demarcation, strategies to reduce illegal
bushmeat production/harvesting, and formulation of community-based actions to minimize or stop group
hunting and bushfire prevention and control.
Though there is high demand for bushmeat in Ghana, the availability of wildlife in non-reserved wilderness
areas has been drastically reduced or exterminated in many off-reserve areas. Communities therefore engage
in illegal hunting in the reserves. Poaching in and around forest reserves and Mole National Park and Gbele
Resource Reserves is serious and chronic. Under this component, funds would be provided for incentive-
based, anti-poaching activities in collaboration with local communities. Group hunting is another practice
detrimental to wildlife conservation in the northern savanna area. Hunters, in groups numbering over a
hundred, target for consumption every species encountered without discrimination as to number, sex, or age.
The practice has contributed to decline in numbers and species, and contributed to the ultimate extinction of
species outside forest and wildlife reserves in the savanna ecosystem. To lessen these practices, the project
would support public education campaigns to educate communities on the hazards of group hunting as well
as its effects on the fauna, flora, and associated socio-economic disadvantages. Other activities which would
be funded include those assisting local communities, District Assemblies, law enforcement agencies, and
natural resource management agencies in instituting and implementing hunting by-laws and strategies
opposed to group hunting.
Also supported under this component is bushfire prevention and control. Annual wildfires destroy both
vegetation and animal life by sweeping across reserves and the wilderness areas, resulting in loss of forage
and cover for wildlife and domestic livestock and causing loss to property and human life. Bushfires in the
savanna zone during the dry season are caused by accidents, or by hunters (especially group hunters), honey
tappers, or charcoal burners. Support would be provided for educating communities on early and control
burning, bushfire prevention and control, establishment of firebreaks within and around reserves, and
training of community fire volunteer units, as well as public awareness programs.
Sub-component 3(c): Improving Land Management and Restoration of DegradedAreas.
An EPA survey (early 1990s) revealed that the Upper East Region is the most degraded land area in Ghana.
Furthermore, degradation has increased in past decades, deforestation has progressed to the point where
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                            Page         54



climax and pro-climax vegetation are not visible in many areas except in reserved forest and patches of
sacred groves, and soil erosion has been aggravated over the past 20 years. Although there has been donor
support for projects in the three northern regions to arrest desertification, e.g., the Irrigation Company of
Upper Region's (ICOUR) environmental restoration project funded by UNDP, the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) project covering selected communities in these regions, and the Upper
Regional Agricultural Development Program (URADEP), these had little effects in the areas or communities
that the NSBCP targets.
The sub-component objective is to bring about the sustainable development and management of
dryland/savanna ecosystems through desertification control techniques. Under this sub-component, the
project would support: (i) a bio-physical and socio-economic baseline survey of the selected communities,
(ii) selection of communities/groups and affected areas to be included in the project, (iii) establishment of
community-level committees and agreement to support project components, (iv) sensitization and awareness
campaigns, (v) education and training programs for bushfire prevention squads, (vi) protection and
maintenance of pilot areas, and (vii) distribution of plant seedlings to schools in the communities.
Pilot projects would be set up in the three Northern Regions which would link with the Savanna Resource
Management Component of the NRMP which focus on the degraded landscape of the Northern, Upper East
and Upper West Regions of Ghana. The principal project beneficiaries are expected to be the communities
in the selected, affected areas who would be participating in the project activities. The pilot projects would
be implemented in collaboration with the Desertification Control Unit of the EPA based in Bolgatanga, with
the active collaboration of the Forest Services Division of the Forestry Commission and other relevant
Governmental and Non-governmental organizations.  The District and Community Environmental
Management Committees, among others, would play an active role in project implementation. This
component would be implemented by a core team coordinated by the National Focal Person on
Desertification who is also the EPA Deputy Director in charge of the Upper East Region and would be
assisted by EPA staff in the three Northern Regions, Technical Officers and Field Assistants.
Funds would be available for the purchase of inputs and supplies, training and equipment for the anti-
bushfire squads, incremental staff salaries for maintenance and protection of the pilot areas, and distribution
of seedlings.
Sub-component 3(d). Sustaining Biodiversity
This sub-component would support wildlife domestication, and the establishment of two wildlife corridors
along the Sissili River and the Red, White, and Morago rivers. The sub-component would provide funding
for activities which would promote wildlife domestication and/or ranching. Bushmeat is highly appreciated
in Ghana but production in the homes is non-existent, especially in Northern Ghana. Wildlife domestication
or game farming is not practiced in Northern Ghana probably due to lack of information on the husbandry.
Other problems contributing to the limited interest in and practice of game farming could include difficulties
in obtaining breeding stock, housing, and capital to start the domestication. The belief that the wild supplies
an inexhaustible supply of bushmeat is also a contributing factor. Game farming has high potential since the
demand for the product locally is high and a ready market exists. Suitable species for farming such as the
grasscutter, giant rats, and other rodents which have a high rate of reproduction are available in the region
and the project would provide support for demonstrations and training in farning techniques for these
species. Producing bushmeat in the homes would also alleviate the pressure on wildlife and provide an
opportunity for wild populations to recover, thereby contributing to biodiversity conservation and
sustainable utilization.
Wildlife Corridors. Currently, there are 22 wildlife reserves that are mostly isolated from each other. The
rate of loss of ecosystems and habitat in off-reserve areas and the pressure on wildlife in the protected areas
could soon lead to loss of biodiversity. Over an extended period, these islands of ecosystem and the
biological resources therein would not be able to sustain themselves because most of these habitats would
have become too small and fragmented and the fauna would have experienced inbreeding and apparent
weakening of their gene pool. However, a contiguous network of habitats or ecosystems in the form of
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                          Page        55



corridors using for instance riverine or gallery forests, state forest reserves that are augmented by managed
community wildlife/natural resource reserves would ensure that there would be un-impeded movement of
fauna between these habitats or ecosystems.  Such a network of habitats would thus allow/support
intermixing of genetic material of species between habitats and hence enhancement of biodiversity.
Two biodiversity-rich corridors were identified and proposed for inclusion into the NSBCP. The first
proposed corridor to be situate in the north-western part of the country would begin from the Mole National
Park and include the Podo and Chiana Hills forest reserves, the Sissili River and Mawbia reserves in Ghana
and link with the Nazinga Game Ranch in Burkina Faso. The second corridor is situated in the Guinea and
sudanian savanna woodlands of northeastem Ghana. It runs from Burkina Faso and would link forests and
other vegetation along the White Volta, Red Volta, and Morago rivers and continue to Togo. These two
corridors are of international and global importance because the Sissili River-Mawbia contiguum serves as a
corridor for the movement of fauna including elephants between Ghana and Burkina-Faso while the Red and
White Volta-Morago River forest contiguum is used by elephants that move between Burkina-Faso, Ghana
and Togo.
The establishment and management of the Sissili River - Mawbia and Red-White-Morago Rivers Corridors
would be supported through specific efforts and activities (e.g., community reserves) to ensure that local
communities are fully integrated in the creation and management of these corridors.
Sub-component 3(e): Sustaining Medicinal Plant Resources
This sub-component would support studies to: (i) assess the supply and demand (socio-economic) of
current medicinal plant used for the ten major human diseases and five major livestock diseases, (ii) identify
guidelines for the sustainable harvesting of medicinal plant species in protected sites when ex-situ
conservation/cultivation is not possible; and (iii) methods for the propagation and cultivation of selected
medicinal plant species in home gardens, degraded habitats, and as components of agricultural
diversification for use by healers and birth attendants, and as an additional source of income. The project
would also assist CSRPM to identify localities and traditional healer/birth attendants/farmers to cultivate
selected medicinal plant species needed for phyto-medicine production.
Despite the recognition of the importance of medicinal plants and their traditional use in the
healthcare system, they remain undervalued, The increasing demand in urban centers for traditional
medicines is placing increasing pressure on the wild resource-base. Market and field surveys would be
carried out to determine pressures on wild populations and habitats at selected savanna forest sites and to
better understand local community and northern region dependence on medicinal plants for human and
livestock health care. This information would provide input to the national and northern savanna databases
and priority setting for in-situ conservation and ex-situ conservation and cultivation activities.
Under all the above sub-components the project would fund expenses for:
*  civil works for the construction/rehabilitation of ranger field stations in protected areas, park/reserve boundary
demarcation and maintenance, fire belt construction and maintenance, fire observation posts;
*  goods including communications equipment, office equipment (e.g., computers, printers, fax, etc), vehicles, motor
cycles, bicycles, field implements (e.g., navigational and survey tools, clothing, cutlasses, etc); laboratory
equipment and chemicals (e.g., autoclave, analytic balance, incubators, luminar flow hood, reagents and chemicals,
portable fume chamber, microcentrifuge);
*  consultant services - domestic and international consultants in the areas of protected areas management, terrestrial
ecology, biological and socio-economic surveys, fire prevention and control, anti-poaching operations, boundary
survey, remote sensing, community education and awareness, training, women issues;
*  the establishment of pilot farmer-basedl cultivation(agronomic) trials outside of reserve and protected areas would
utilize farmer knowledge to ensure a sustainable supply of medicinal plants and/or parts;
*  training - community training and awareness activities, professional development for park/reserve management
staff, on-site ranger/community training programs, local community leaders training and workshops;
Traditional healers in rural areas seldom derive income from healthcare practices, their primary source of
livelihood is farming.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                                  Page          56



* incremental salaries and allowances - for community animators/contracting, contract staff, traveling responsible
agencies staff;
* incremental operating costs - for field equipment and facilities maintenance, operation of vehicles, office
equipment, etc..
Expected outputs for this component are:
(a)    The formulation five-year site-specific management plans for the pilot forest and wildlife reserves; the
management plans would be community-based and would address biological and human dimensions of
resource use and conservation within protected areas and in the fringing communities;
(b)    strengthened capacity of the responsible agencies and local communities to manage the pilot areas through
professional development and community training;
(c)    identification of sustainable cultivation methods for threatened and high-demand medicinal plant species with
possibilities for improving through selective breeding their genetic basis without compromising their
pharmacopeal properties;
(d)    reduction in the incidences and magnitudes of the annual bushfires and their effects on the protected areas and
fringing areas and communities, reduction in unsustainable and illegal harvesting of biological resources
(especially wildlife) through activities such as group hunting;
(e)    official recognition of the importance and establishment of two biodiversity corridors of
regional/intemational/global significance linking faunal populations and reserves in Burkina Faso, Ghana, and
Togo.
Project Component 4: Community-Based Management Actions (US$2.40 million)
The objective of this component is to collaboratively develop, test and replicate proactive measures
which actively involve local communities more directly in the planning and management of northern
savanna wildlife and forest reserves. The component would support the development of guidelines for
community-based resource management action plans to encourage sustainable use of savanna resources.
This component would address the development of community based initiatives directed at reducing
pressure on the biological resources of wildlife and forest reserves, and enhancing management of off-
reserve resources.
Communities adjacent to the reserves rely on the resources of these protected areas for daily
subsistence needs. Experience from around the world indicates that conservation activities could be
jeopardized in the long term as population increases if the economic needs of adjacent communities are not
addressed as an integral part of conservation activities. Conversely, the CAMPIRE program in Zimbabwe
offers a means of sustainably harvesting wild animals in communal areas, for the benefit of local
communities, where income receipts accrue to participating households. These communities now perceive
wildlife as an asset with value and not merely posing a threat to life, crops and domestic livestock. The
adaptation of the CAMPFIRE approach and the recognition of traditional leadership structures in the
proposed project should catalyse the conservation and sustainable use of threatened plants by local
communities. This component is included as a proactive measure to test ways to address community
livelihood problems, disaggregated in gender terms, before they become an impediment to the conservation
of biodiversity. Such an activity would include identifying guidelines for the sustainable harvesting of
medicinal plants that can not be propagated ex-situ. Traditional values that include rules and regulations that
forbid the cutting of fruit trees and other 'sacred" tree species for uses such as fuelwood and construction
will assist in the sustainable use of wild medicinal plant species.
The component would also support in-depth natural resource and socio-economic assessments of
communities living in and around the reserves aimed at providing information on current livelihood
practices, resource use patterns, cultural values, and other socio-economic conditions in selected
communities. The component would also assist communities within and around reserves to develop village
and community activities that complement conservation efforts and that could be funded through the Project.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                                  Page          57



Another activity supported would be ex-situ conservation and cultivation of medicinal plant species
by communities including establishment of community reserves in priority areas. Home gardens maintained
by women are the primary source of high-demand species as they are the first source of healthcare in the
rural communities. Within a community the micro-environments of home gardens and selected agricultural
sites contain high levels of species: medicinal, herbs, spices and farmer crop varieties of health and
nutritional value. The home gardens are also points of experimentation, introduction of new varieties and/or
species and genetic diversity as a result of plant (germplasm) exchange and supported by social-cultural
diversity. TBAs are also major contributors to and users of home garden medicinal plants. The project would
build upon existing gender knowledge by documenting species and proposing ways to address sustainability
concerns within conservation, management and sustainable use components. The project would also support
the protection of sacred groves which serve as sources of medicinal plants and help to conserve biodiversity.
The wealth of traditional knowledge and innovation on medicinal plants and their use by THs and
TBAs over time is not recognized and appropriately rewarded under under existing Ghanaian patent
regimes. The project will support efforts to develop and promulgate a sui generis system of Intellectual
Property Rights (IPR) governing the value of indigenous knowledge and innovation, and the collection of
biological resources and the sharing of equitable benefits with healers, birth attendants and local
communities.
The project would support education and mass awareness campaigns of the relevance of
conservation, management and sustainable use programs and the importance of Ghana's biodiversity. Radio
broadcasts and videos extolling the value of good community-based management practices would be
developed in collaboration with community chiefs, healers, NGOs, and relevant government ministries and
agencies. The diversity of local cultures and languages would be recognized.
Items to be financed under this component include:
*  rehabilitation of small community infrastructure identified during community planning process;
  purchase of goods including vehicles, motor cycles bicycles, office furniture, equipment, computers;
* payment for consultant services, domestic and international, PRA Techniques, anthropological surveys, resource
assessments, community resource management, rural development;
* workshops that will provide new learning environment for healers, communities, researchers and government to
establish an IPR policy framework that strengthens rural societies, with a practical recognition of their role in
conservation and development;
*  on-site staff training and awareness for SRMC, District Assemblies, and local community personnel, participation
in national and international workshops;
* community development projects for initiatives such as small scale community infrastructure, alternative
livelihood proposals, community resource management plans, identified by the villages and communities
themselves;
*  salaries and allowances for contract and temporary incremental staff;
*  incremental operating costs -- for operations of vehicles, office consumables, publications, expendable materials,
equipment and facilities maintenance and operations;
Key outputs would be: (i) strengthened capacity of MLF and SRMC, collaborating ministries,
District Assemblies, THAs, and local communities to facilitate community development initiatives; (ii)
methodologies/guidelines for developing community-based resource management action plans and for
involving communities in reserve protection and management; (iii) increased community willingness to
participate in initiatives which further reserve management objectives; (iv) establishment of a zoning system
in pilot areas which guides land use within and adjacent to the park; (5) evaluation of incentive systems and
livelihood alternatives which complement biodiversity protection and management initiatives.
Project Component 5: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.60 million)
This component would establish a rigorous project management and administrative system to
support all aspects of project planning, implementation and coordination. The project would support the
establishment of a Project Management Coordinating Unit (PMCU) and contracting of the PMCU
Biodiversity Coordinator for the duration of the project. The PMCU would be responsible for day to day
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                                Page          58



management of the project including work program planning, coordination and harmonization with other
stakeholders, activities and programs. The project would provide the necessary facilities to ensure effective
running of the PMCU.
The Project Biodiversity Coordinator (PC) would implement a systematic and detailed monitoring
and reporting system focusing on both the output and outcome of the project. The system should allow an
effective evaluation of: (i) the effectiveness of the project's delivery mechanisms and procedures; (ii) the
impact of the field activities on the basis of stated objectives, and input, output and impact indicators
identified in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1); and (iii) the replication of the in-situ and ex-situ
activities at a wider regional scale. The progress towards project outcomes would be evaluated during
project supervision and an in-depth review 18 months after the project becomes effective; followed by a
mid-term Review at the 36 month stage. The in-depth review after 18 months would determine the extent to
which the project is performing vis-a-vis its development objectives. The Mid-Term Review at the 36 month
stage would determine the status of the project regarding achievement of objectives at the completion date
(72 months). An Implementation Completion Report would be prepared at least six months prior to final
disbursement of the Grant. The Government would prepare its own evaluation of the project.
Expenses funded under this component would include:
*   rehabilitation of office facilities in SRMC in Tamale;
*   consultant services, domestic and international, in the areas of project management, accounting, perfonnance
M&E, auditing, procurement;
*   purchase of goods including vehicle(s), office equipment;
e   incremental operating costs for office consumables, equipment and facilities maintenance, domestic and other
travel; and
*   salaries and allowances for incremental contract and temporary staff, allowances for MLF and other government
agencies staff working on the project.
Key outputs are: (i) improved capacity of PMCU to prepare annual work plans that are clear, realistic and monitorable;
(ii) timely and adequate flows of financial resources to support all project activities; (iii) improved capacity of MLF to
manage programs of international donors independently; and (iv) enhanced ability to monitor project performance.
Project Design Summary
GHANA: NORTHERN SAVANNA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Objectives Summary             Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions/Risks
CAS Goal: Poverty alleviation through    Reduction on level of poverty in  M&E component of the  (Goal to Bank Mission)
environmentally and socially        the savanna zone based on project   project.                Improved management of
sustainable economic growth.        activities.                                                  biodiversity and enhanced
sustainable social and
Sector-related CAS Goal: Improvement  Improved healthcare and livelihood  Government publications.  economic development through
in healthcare, environment and      systems through biodiversity                                improvement in livelihoods and
economic livelihood of northern     conservation and sustainable use of                         health.
savanna zone.                       resources
GEF Operational Program Goal:       In-situ conservation and        MLF/SRMP report.
Assessment and conservation of      management in the protected
globally significant biodiversity in  savanna forests and surrounding  GEF-Project Progress Report.
northern savanna zone.              habitats
Project Development Objective:
Improve environment, livelihood and  Policy framework developed based   Policy documents        GoG commitment to
health of communities in the northern    on improved capacity in the region.                    conservation, management and
savanna zone through conservation and                                                           sustainable utilization remains
sustainable use of natural resources  Improved biodiversity management  Published reports and plans    strong.
including medicinal plants.         plans in the Savanna Zone and
appropriate and effective                                   Local authorities and
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                                          Page            59



conservation measures involving                              communities cooperate and
communities and adopted by                                   support activities.
communities.
Increased awareness of biodiversity  Baseline surveys, monitoring
issues and maintenance of plant  reports.
and crop gene banks by
communities.
Project Global Objectives:
Identify, monitor, conserve key     Hectares of savanna priority areas   Published reports        Participatory process allows
components of globally significant  under effective management.                                   stakeholders and GoG agencies
biodiversity in the northern savanna                                                              to reach long-term agreement
zone through ecosystem management,    Demonstrated regeneration of   Published reports            on objectives and strategies for
conservation and management policies,  threatened, endemic and rare biotic                        savanna resource management.
identifying endemic species habitats for  species in the priority areas.
protection, preservation of medicinal
plants resources and knowledge, and  Number of communities           Baseline survey and project
maintaining cultivation of farm crops.    effectively involved in propagation   progress reports.
of important indigenous crops and   Published reports.
medicinal plants.
Enhanced security of natural
habitats.
Component Outputs:                                                                                (Outputs to Project
1. Formulating Policy Framework                                                                   Development/Global objective)
a. Specific policy/strategies for    Specific policy/strategies and  Project supervision reports.  GoG willingness and capacity
northern savanna biodiversity        guidelines developed by end PY02                             to implement requisite
conservation and management including  and implemented by end PY04.                              institutional and organizational
bioprospecting and biosafety/quality                                                              changes and strategy.
formulated.
b. Intellectual property rights policy  IPR and bio-prospecting policies    As above.
(IPR) and guidelines for sharing     and guidelines specifically
indigenous knowledge developed and    focussing on human and livestock
benefits derived from conservation and   healthcare developed by PY02 and
management of biodiversity developed.  implemented by PY04.
c. Specific regulations regarding
traditional medicine practice and    Regulations and codes and conduct  Regulations and codes of  Healers' and traditional
traditional healers associations' codes of  developed and adopted by PY02.    conduct published.  medicine providers' agreement
conduct developed.                                                                                to work together.
2. Capacity Building
a. MLF, MOH, MEST, GHATRAM,    Institutional assessment conducted   Implementation completion
SRMC, regional and district level   and training needs identified by  report.
governments and communities capacity   end PYO1; training completed by
for implementing project activities  end PY02 and assessment by end
strengthened and institutional      PY04.
collaboration established.
b. Biodiversity component integrated    Institutional assessment conducted   Project supervision reports.  Resources are provided in
into SRMP and fully operational and  and training needs identified by                             timely manner.
management procedures under SRMC     PY01;
established.
c. GIS database established identifying   Training completed by PY02;                             MOH fully supports
and documenting biodiversity including:  assessment of status by end PY02;                        Directorate strengthening.
medicinal plants, and farm crop      biodiversity component integrated
varieties.                           into SRMC and fully operational
under SRMC management by end
PY02.
d. Traditional Medicine Directorate  Functioning database and        Monitoring reports and
capacity for implementing activities  monitoring system. Training of  relevant data generation.
strengthened and institutional      staff completed by end PYO 1.
collaboration established.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                                            Page           60



Institutional assessment conducted   Project supervision reports
and training needs identified by  and MOH progress reports.
PYO0.
Training completed by PY02 and    Implementation completion
assessment of status by end PY02.  reports.
3. Biodiversity Conservation, Research
and Development
a. Detailed socio-economic and      Surveys completed by end PY02.    Baseline survey and SRMC
biological surveys and zoning                                       progress report.
conducted for 10 forest, 3 wildlife
reserves and adjacent lands.
b. Region and community biodiversity   Management plans for 10 forests, 3  SRMC reports.        Communities would not
management plan for 10 forest, 3    wildlife reserves and adjacent                              encroach on forest and wildlife
wildlife reserves and adjacent lands  lands(including 2 corridors)                              reserves and would collaborate
developed and implemented.          developed and adopted by PY03.                              in achieving sustainable
management objective.
c. Endemic species and "hotspots"   Surveys completed by end PY02.    SRMC reports.
identified in the northern savanna zone
and priority areas located.
d. 3-5 pilot areas identified for each of   Pilot area guidelines established by  Project supervision and  Local communities capable and
the following:                      PY02 and implemented by PY03.   SRMC reports.               willing to implement agreed
- restoration of degraded lands;                                                                 activities.
- medicinal plant cultivation;
- bush fire control.
Strategies developed by end PY02.  Project supervision and
e. Strategies for protection and                                    SRMC reports.
cultivation of indigenous crop varieties
and husbandry of threatened indigenous
livestock species developed.
f. Field gene banks and strategies for    Field gene banks established and    Project supervision reports  Willingness of stakeholders to
sustainable production of threatened  strategies implemented by end  and SRMC reports.          actively participate in
agro-biodiversity (indigenous crop  PY02.                                                       implementing activities on the
varieties) and medicinal plant species                                                          ground.
established.                        Number of farmers with field gene
banks registered.
4. Community-based Management
Actions
a. Guidelines for community-based   Action plans implemented by     Guideline documents         Communities can provide early
resource management action plans to  PYOI.                          published by the SRMC.      warning impact on species
encourage sustainable use of savanna                                                            before changes in numbers
resources, including harvesting                                                                 become apparent.
regulations for medicinal plants
developed.
b. Ex-situ community led pilot      Number of pilot cultivation trials    Project supervision reports  Public interest and support of
cultivation trials of threatened medicinal  initiated by end PY02, including  and PMCU reports.  communities; commitment to
plants used in human and livestock  number of people engaged.                                   sustainable resource
healthcare initiated.                                                                           use/conservation activities.
c. Community-based education and    Pilot programs implemented by   Education and mass
mass awareness campaigns publicizing   PY03. Number of awareness    awareness documents
value of biodiversity and medicinal  programs undertaken.           disseminated.
plant species conservation and
management implemented.
5. Project Management, Monitoring
and Evaluation
a. Project Management operational and   Biodiversity Coordinator    Contract approved by ?      Commitment by MLF to
fully integrated into SRMC.         contracted for project. Project  Project supervision reports.    support PMCU and implement
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                                          Page            61



management fully integrated into                           the project.
SRMC by end PYO 1.
b. Biodiversity project monitoring and   Monitoring and evaluation system    Project supervision reports.    Availability of counterpart
evaluation system developed and     integrated into M&E at SRMC and                            staff.
implemented.                       fully operational by end PYOI.
Project Components!Subcomponents    Inputs (budgetfor each component
including contingencies)
1. Strengthening the Policy Framework   US$ 0.5 million            Disbursement reports.       Timely and adequate
counterpart funds maintained.
2. Capacity-building               US$ 0.8 million                 Annual audit reports.
3. Collaborative Biodiversity       US$ 3.3 million                Quarterly financial reports
Conservation, Research and
Development
4. Community-based Management      US$ 2.4 million
Actions
5. Project Management, and         US$ 0.6 million
Monitoring and Evaluation
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                                         Page           62



APPENDIX IlIl
REVIEW OF ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES, LEGISLATION AND INSTITUTIONAL
ARRANGEMENTS
Environmental Policy
The Environmental Policy stresses on the principles of:
Optimum sustainable yield in the use of resources and ecosystems
Delegation of decision-making and action to the most appropriate level
Public participation.
The objectives of the environmental policy are:
ensure reconciliation between and natural resource utilisation and conservation
maintenance of ecosystem and ecological processes
ensure sound management of natural resources and environment
protect human, animals, plants biological communities and habitats against harmful
impacts and destructive practices.
The policy is being implemented through actions of
sound management of renewable resources
creation of awareness
development of procedures for utilisation of land resources
Forest and Wildlife Policy
The Forest and Wildlife policy of 1994 emphasises the principles of:
right of people to access natural resource
wise use
incorporate traditional methods of resource management
appropriate and efficient land use
develop decentralised participatory democracy involving local people
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page       63



The relevant objectives of this policy to the project are:
conservation and sustainable development of forest and wildlife resources for
maintenance of environmental quality.
enhance forest and wildlife resource through conservation of biodiversity.
promote public awareness and involvement of rural people and
development of capability at national, regional and district levels for sustainable forest and
wildlife resources.
The National Land Policy
The National Land Policy, adopted in 1999, aims at protecting the variety of habitat types.
The policy categorically states that "all lands declared as forest reserves, strict game
reserves, national parks, wildlife and similar land categories are fully protected for
ecosystem maintenance and biodiversity conservation".
Thus the legal framework exists for the implementation of the project.
Rights to Resources
Land usually belongs to a division of paramountcy within an ethnic group. It is either
divided into stool/skin lands and family lands, or clan lands depending on the social
structure of the people. Rights are normally for land use and not for sale of land. Security
of tenure of land is based on the continual working on the land in addition to the rendering
of all necessary customary services to the stool or family that owns the land.
Lands in Reserves
All lands in Forest Reserves are vested in the President in trust for the stools / skins. The
President has the right "to execute any deed or do any act as trustee". However, any
revenue derived from land and these vested rights must be placed into a Stool Land
Account "for the benefit of people in the areas in which particular lands are situated" (Act
123. 17, 20). Thus the beneficiary rights remain with the traditional owners (Rosenthal, S.
1997).
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                Page       64



Lands outside Reserves
Outside reserves the rights to timber and trees are also vested in the Government, in trust
for owners. In 1994 the then Forestry Department was given responsibility for the control
of off-reserve felling of trees. Timber concessions are used to grant timber harvesting
rights both in and off-reserves,
NSBCP and NLP
The NSBCP, which aims at biodiversity conservation, research and development would
support:
the development of systems for resources management.
Protected areas and boundary demarcations and biodiversity conservation
Improved land management and restoration of degraded land and sustainability of
medicinal plant resources
Are all in line with the National Land Policy and there are no gaps between policy and
project activities and conforms to World Bank guidelines.
The NSBCP would "Promote community participation and public awareness at all levels in
sustainable land management and development practices to ensure the highest and best
use of land and thereby guarantee optimum returns on land" (NLP,1999)
The NLP provides for the creation of protected areas and boundary demarcation and
biodiversity conservation under "ensuring sustainable land use (b) "all lands declared as
forest reserve, strict nature reserves, national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and similar land
categories constitute Ghana's permanent forest and wildlife estates and are 'fully
protected' for ecosystem maintenance, biodiversity conservation and sustainable timber
production"
Under enhancing land capability and land conservation, the policy provides that " any land
with potential for ecosystem maintenance, biodiversity or scenic beauty preservation may
be declared a protected area by the government through consultation and negotiation with
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      65



the land owners and subject to the payment of annual rent as compensation. Management
of such areas shall be by the collaborative effort of the government and the community."
The Land Policy advocates:
land as a common national or common property resource held in trust for people.
optimum usage for all types of land uses and,
community participation in land management and land development at all levels.
The objectives of the policy are to ensure:
judicious use of the nation's land and its natural resource by all sections of the society.
socio-economic activity consistent with sound land use
ensure payment within reasonable time of fair and adequate compensation
promote community participation and public awareness at all levels in sustainable land
management and in development practices.
The actions through which principles and objectives would be translated are:
security of tenure and protection of land rights based on natural resources, conservation
of land for future generation and protection of land rights of the present generation.
ensuring sustainable land use and
enhanced land capability and land conservation.
The common elements of these policy documents are wise use of natural resource, public
participation, community-based management and importance of indigenous knowledge.
Legislation
There are a number of legislation relevant to conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity. These are reviewed below.
Traditional Medicine Practice Act
A Traditional Medicine Practices Act, Act 575, 2000 has been passed to integrate
traditional health services into the national healthcare system and regulate the practice of
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page      66



traditional medicine. The Act recognises the potential role of traditional medicine in
primary healthcare especially poor rural and urban communities. A traditional Medicine
Directorate has also been established to translate the Act into practice.
Environmental Assessment L.l
The Environmental Assessment Regulations, Legislative Instrument (LI) 1652 has certain
aspect relevant to the project. Under Schedule 1 of the regulations which covers
undertakings requiring registration and environmental permit, two activities under forest
services has to be registered. These are introduction of exotic species of animals, plants
or microbial agents and establishment of forests in previously forested and unforested
areas.
For undertakings for which environmental impact assessment (EIA) is mandatory there
are two aspects which has relevance for the project.
These are in the area of agriculture and environmental conservation and management.
The undertaking, which qualify under agriculture, are programmes necessitating the
resettlement of 20 families or more. In this wise if the village of Gbele in the game reserve
is to be relocated and the number of families exceed this number them EIA would be
required. In the area of environmental conservation and management activities requiring
EIA are:
wildlife conservation and management
forest conservation and management
watershed conservation and management
commercial exploitation of fauna and flora
Under Schedule 5 of the regulations covering environmentally sensitive areas, any
activity, which falls under any of the following areas, EIA would be required:
areas declared by law as national parks, watershed reserves, wildlife reserves and
sanctuaries including sacred groves.
areas with potential tourist value
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       67



areas which constitute the habitat of any endangered or threatened species of indigenous
wildlife (flora and fauna)
areas prone to bushefires and
areas of unique historic, archaeological or scientific interests.
Wild Life Legislation
The principal legislation governing wildlife conservation is the Wildlife Animals
Preservation Act, 1961 (Act 43) under which wildlife protection areas are created. Two
regulations have been passed under the Act. These are the Wildlife Conservation
Regulations, 1971 (LI 685) subsequently amended LI 1284 of 1983 and LI 1352 of 1988
and the Wildlife Reserves Regulations 1971 (Ll 710).
Wildlife Conservation Regulation
The Wildlife Conservation Regulations, 1971 (LI 685) provided an instrument for
translating new attitudes into legislation. This regulation deals with the system of permits
and certificates required for regulating international trade in endangered wildlife species
under the convention on International Trade in Endangered species of Wild Fauna and
Flora, 1973 (CITES) which Ghana has acceded to. It provides degrees of protection to
named wild animal species, thus enabling endangered species to be legally protected,
regulate the hunting, capture and destruction of wild animals, and control the export of
animals (living or dead) and parts of animals (trophies) in commercial quantities.
Wildlife Reserves Regulations
The Wildlife Reserves Regulations, 1971 (LI 710) deals with establishment of Wildlife
Reserves by name and boundary description. The establishment of wildlife reserves has
involved acquisition by the state with consequent payment of compensation to the land
and resource owners. The non-payment of compensation in certain cases has led to
some communities still residing in reserves like Gbelle Wildlife Reserve, which is a
candidate pilot community under the project. The wildlife law places emphasis on wild
animals to the relative neglect of endangered wild plants. This has to be balanced by the
project.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       68



Land Planning and Soil Conservation (Amendment) Act
The Land Planning and Soil Conservation (Amendment) Act 35, was passed in 1957. This
Act has not been repealed but it is not being applied. The purpose of the Act was to
improve the utilisation of lands in designated areas through land planning and soil
conservation.
The Act has provisions for preservation, reclaiming of land and for the protection of
natural resources. The Act was to be implemented through the establishment of
committees in designated areas for land planning and soil conservation. These
committees were to be established by the Minister of Agriculture.
The committees were to have the power to protect sources of water, control of water,
prevention and mitigation of erosion, reclamation of land and utilisation of swampland.
They also have powers to transfer any farmer from an area which was exhausted or
inadequate. The Minister has power under the Act to regulate grazing uses, watering,
livestock uses as well as provisions in relation to burning, clearing and destruction of
vegetation.
The Act was for some time implemented in the northern and upper regions in seven
towns designated as planning areas; Damongo, Dedoro, Wiaga, Frafra, Selo-Tuni,
Bumbugu and Tamne.
In these areas land planning measures included watershed protection, forest reservation,
dam construction, sinking of wells, fencing and reseeding of grazing areas, construction of
roads, planting of fuelwood lots and development of; irrigation systems. One of the main
reasons for the failure of the project was attributed to exclusion of the local communities
during their implementation. Government departments undertook the projects backed by
force.
It seems to have ended abruptly around 1960 when conservation factor was vested in the
irrigation authorities. With increased emphasis on irrigation, land planning was over
looked.
International Policies
Northem Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page      69



Apart from these national policies, Ghana is signatory to a number of international
conventions and agreements related to the environment by the ratification of these
conventions, Ghana has endorsed certain international principles. Some of these
conventions are the Rio Declaration, the African Convention on Wildlife Conservation,
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), Biodiversity,
Deserfication, Ramsar Sites, Climate Change among other things.
Rio Declaration
The Rio Declaration of 1992 is a non-legally binding statement of forest principles. It
recognised the need to conserve, manage and sustainably develop all type of forests as
well as recognising the sovereign rights of nations to utilise their forest.
As a signatory to the Convention on Biodiversity of 1993, Ghana has accepted that biotic
wealth is the basis of life and livelihood and that greater efforts are required to protect,
understand and wisely use the earth's biodiversity. Under the terms of the Convention,
each country is responsible for developing a strategy for the conservation of its natural
biological diversity. A central requirement is the strengthening of protected areas and
calls upon nations to "identify national and international priorities for strengthening
protected areas and enhancing their role in biodiversity conservation." Ghana in fulfilment
of the requirements of the convention, has prepared a National Biodiversity and Action
Plan to determine the future direction of biodiversity management in the country. The plan
focuses on improving the scientific knowledge in Ghana, and the identification of potential
threats and how these could be controlled.
Convention on Desertification
Ghana is also signatory to the Convention on Desertification. A National Committee on
Desertification has been constituted and a National Action Plan (NAP) on Desertification is
under preparation. The NAP is to transform the provisions of the convention on
desertification into concrete actions and measures to combat desertification and mitigate
the effects of drought.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                Page       70



Ramsar Site Convention
The Ramsar Site Convention is intended to identify and protect wetlands of international
importance, particularly those that are required habitat for migrating bird species. Ghana
is a signatory to the Convention. To date Ghana has designated six wetland protected
areas, five on the coastal zone, one in the high forest zone and none in the northern
guinea savanna.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                 Page       71



APPENDIX IV
THREATENED WILDLIFE SPECIES OF GHANA
THREATENED SPECIES   DESCRIPTION
Large Mammals
Elephant                 Ghana's elephant population is generally classified as
Vulnerable, though elephants within the forest zone
are classified as Endangered. An estimated for both
species together has ranged between 1,500 and 3,500
Leopard                  The leopard is widely    distributed   in   Ghana
occurring in all vegetation zones and has been
recorded in 12 of the 15 GWD protected areas.
Manatee                  The West African manatee is   considered  to  be
Vulnerable. The species is threatened by hunting and
incidental capture in fishing nets:
Ogilby's duiker          The species is listed Vulnerable and has a restricted
recorded distribution in Ghana.
Red-fronted gazelle      The species is Vulnerable and has been recorded in
northern Ghana which is the southern  limit of the
species range.
Bongo                    The species is globally endangered. The Nini-Suhien
national Park and Ankasa Resource Reserve support
strong population.
Primates
Diana Monkey             This species is listed as Vulnerable but is considered
to be one of the most threatened in Africa.
Red Colobus              The species is listed as Vulnerable and threatened by
habitat loss, logging and intensive hunting.
Olive Colobus            The species is listed as Rare throughout its entire
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project              Page       72



range, though it is less easy to hunt than other colobus
due to its cryptic behaviour.
Chimpanzee               The species is internationally    Vulnerable, with one
or two relict populations found in SW  Ghana where
they are protected in Bia and Ankasa conservation
areas. Sighting area rare. Population are very low with
possible fewer than 400 with less than 90 breading
females. It is vulnerable to habitat  disturbance
and disease
Mangabey                 The collared mangabey is listed as Vulnerable. It is
rimarily resident in high canopy primary forest but can
also be found in gallery and inland swamp forest.
There may be only few troops   surviving due to the
past logging of the closed forest.
Birds
White-breasted Guineafowl The white-breasted guineafowl is endemic to the
Upper Guinea forest block and is listed as endangered.
It is considered to be one of the most threatened
birds in continental Africa and until recently it
was though to be extinct in Ghana. The species
seems to be confined to primary forest and often
disappears after logging. The species is hunted for
food
Yellow-footed Honeyguide   Although the status of this bird is uncertain is appears
to occur at very low densities.
Olive Greenbul           The yellow-bearded  olive greenbul is listed  as
Vulnerable and is endemic to the Upper Guinea
rainforest. Logging is a serious threat to this species
which has a very specialized feeding niche.
White-Necked Picathartes   The species is listed as Vulnerable. Little is known of
its distribution.
Fishing owl              The rufous fishing owl is considered Rare with only
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project               Page       73



four records from Ghana. It likely occurs along the
large rivers in the Western Regions.
Reptiles
Marine turtles               Five species of marine turtles are known from Ghana's
coastal waters. These include: loggerheads turtle,
green turtle, Atlantic ridley, hawksbill turtle and leather
back turtle. There is very little raliable information on
the stus of these species.
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                       Page        74



APPENDIX V: SOME COMMUNITIES IN PILOT SITES
SITE     LOCATI  COMMUNI  WATERSU   EDUCAT  HEALTH    NO.OF   TOTAL   M:F  ECONOMIC
ON       TIES/      PPLY        ION                  HOUSE  POPUL   (RA  ACTIVITIES
ETHNICIT                                    S        ATION    TIO
Keni -   West    Grupe       Well         B                             246      1:0.
Ke ni    Gonja   (Gonja)                                      46                 9
Disrtict  Kabampe  Well         B                             541       1:0.
(Gonja)                                     68                8
Bogodaa/(  Well        B                    35       369       1:   F, L, T
Gonja)                                                        1.2
Manku     River                             62       688      1:
ma                                                            0.8
(Gonja)    ______                                              __
Nuale    Wa       Logu       Borehole    B          Health    60        1,237    1:0.  F, L, T
District  (Dagaaba)                       Post                          9
Naha    Wa        Naaha      River        B                    34       632      1:1   F, L, T
District  (Wala)
Ambala  Wa        Katua      Borehole                         33        315      1:0.  F, L, T
ra       District  (Dagaaba)
Kulun      River                            17       371      1:1.
(Lobi)                                                        1
Bielikpon   River                           12       420       1:08
go (Lobi)
Kulpaw   Sisala   Jinpansi   Borehole                         44       632       1:1.  F, L, T
n        District  (Sisala)                                                      4
Tributa
ries
Kulpaw   Sissala   Gbal      Borehole                          15       513      1:1.  F, L, T
n        District  (Sisala)                                                      05
Headwa
ters
Mawbia  Sisala   Jambugu   Borehole                           22       691       1:0.  F, L, T
District  (Sisala)                                                      9
Nabulo     Borehole    B                    31       790      1:1.
(Sisala)                                                      2
Yigantu    Borehole              TH         14       248       1:0.
(Sisala)                                                      9
Sisili    Sisala             Borehole                          9        205      1:0.  F, L, T
Central  District  Santigang                                                     8
s        (Sisala)
Chiana   Kassen   Kayilo     Borehole    Primary               36       5,988    1:   F, L, T
Hills    a        (Kassena)               School                                 0.9
Nankan
a
Tankwi  Kassen   Kandiga-   Borehole   JSS          Health    16       260       1:   F, L, T
di East   a       (Part)                            Centre                       09
Nankan |(Nankani)                         _ __
a        Longo-                                      29
Akurugu-  Borehole    Primary                        328       1:
Daboo                  School                                  1.1
(Nankani)
Tankwi  Bolgata  Sherigu   I Borehole    B          HP         104      1,134    1: 1  F, L, T
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                               Page          75



di West  nga       (Grunne)                                                            _-
Red      Bolgata  Widnaba   Borehole    B            HC         42       350       1:1   F, L, T
Volta    nga/Ba   (Kussasi)
East/W    wku     Zongoiri   Borehole    B                      65       706       1:0.
est      West    (Kussasi)                                                         9
Tilli      Borehole    B          HP         104      767       1:1.
(Kussasi)                                                       1
Nangodi   Borehole    B                      83       907       1:1
Nakpaliga
(Nabdam)                                                         _
Sekoti     Borehole    B                     7        42        1:1
Dasang
(Nabdam)
Datoko     Borehole    B          HC         47       672       1:1.
Nayire                                                          1
(Nabdam)
Morago  Bawku   Shishe        Borehole                          60       598       1:1   F, L, T
East    (Kussasi)
F, L, T = Subsistence farming:- cultivation of yam, maize, millet, sorghum, cotton, livestock raising, and trading.
(Compiled from Ghana 1984 Population Census by applying the regional growth rates of
the 2000 Population and Housing Census-Northern Region 2.9, Upper East 1.1 and Upper
West 1.7).
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project                                 Page          76



APPENDIX VI. IMPACT ANALYSIS MATRIX
1.                                       Impact Analysis Matrix for Formulation of a Policy Framework Component
Environmental Parameters                Policy for Northern    Intellectual Property Rights   Strengthening
Savanna         (IPR) Policy and Guidelines for   Institutional
Biodiversity     sharing indigenous knowledge      Collaboration
Conservation and
Management
A. Potential Ecological Implications
i. Effect on ecological integrity                        +                          +                         +
ii. Effect on productive systems                         +                          +                         +
iii. Effect on conservation areas                        +                          +                         +
iv. Effect on biodiversity                               +                          +                         +
B. Potential Implication for Natural Resource
i. Management of natural resources                        +                         +                         +
ii. Maintenance of natural resources base                 +                         +                         +
iii. Wise use of natural resources                        +                         +                         +
iv. Enhanced plant/animal disease situation               +                         +                         +
v. Compatibility with defined environmental goals
C. Potential Socio-economic/Health Implications
i.  Resettlement of people/communities                    0                         0                         0
ii. Traditional agricultural values and practices         +                         +                         +
iii. Social conflict                                      O                         O                         +
iv. Social values/acceptability                           0                         +                         0
v. Effect on essential life support systems               +                         +                         +
vi. Effect on quality of life                             0                         +                         +
vii. Effect on public health and safety                   0                         0                         0
viii. Improvement of price of agric products              0                         +                         0
ix. Enhancement of community benefits                     +                         +                         +
x. Reasonable apportionment of cost and benefits          +                         +                         +
xi. Reasonable apportionment of inter-generational        0                         +                         +
equity.                                                       +                         +                         +
xii. Gender sensitivity                             .
+ Perceived impact beneficial            - Perceived significant adverse impact         0 No perceived significant impact or
impact largely residual
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project -EA                                                           Page              67



2.                                Impact Matrix for Capacity Building Component
Environmental       Review of          Professional       Development of    Development of  Public              Animating the
Parameters        Existing           Development         Data, Inventory    People -         Awareness &      formation of
Organisational,    Leadership &       and Monitoring     Sensitive        Education         village - based
Operational       Range Training      Information        participatory    Programmes        conservation &
Policies &                            Systems to         Protected Areas  related to Park    Management
management                            support Natural    Management       Management        Commitees
Systems                               Resources          Planning
._____________________  Management   Guidelines
A. Potential Ecological
Implications
i. Effect on
ecological integrity            0                   +                  +                 +                +                 +
ii. Effect on
productive systems              0                   +                  +                 +                +                 +
iii. Effect on
conservation areas              0                   +                  +                 +                 +                +
iv. Effect on
biodiversity                    0                   +                  +                 +                 +                +
B. Potential Implication
for Natural Resource
i. Management of
natural resources               0                   +                  +                 +                 +                +
ii. Maintenance of
natural resources base          0                   +                  +                 +                +                 +
iii. Wise use of
natural resources               0                   +                  +                 +                 +                +
iv. Enhanced
plant/animal disease
situation                       0                   +                  +                 +                 +                +
v. Compatibility with
defined environmental
goals                           0                   +                  +                 +          .      +                +
C. Potential Socio-
economic/Health
Implications
i.  Resettlement of
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project -EA                                                         Page               68



people/communities            0                    0                   0                   0                 0
ii. Traditional
agricultural values and
practices                         0                    0                   +                  +                  +                 +
iii. Social conflict          0                    0                   0                  0                  0                 0
iv. Social
values/acceptability              0                    +                   +                  +                  +                 +
v. Effect on
essential life support
systems                           0                    +                   +                  +                  +                 +
vi. Effect on quality
of life                           0                    0                   0                  +                  +                 +
vii. Effect on public
health and safety                 0                    0                   0                  +                  +                 0
viii. Improvement of
price of agric products           0                    0                   0                  0                  0                 0
ix. Enhancement of
community benefits                0                    +                   +                  +                  +                 +
x. Reasonable
apportionment of cost and
benefits                          0                    0                   +                  +                  0                 +
xi. Reasonable
apportionment of inter-
generational equity.              0                    +                   +                  +                  +                 +
xii. Gender sensitivity       0                    +                   +                   +                 +                 +
+ Perceived impact beneficial    - Perceived significant adverse impact  0 No perceived significant impact or impact largely residual
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project -EA                                                                Page               69



3                           Impact Analysis Matrix for Biodiversity conservation, Research and Development
Environmental Parameters                 Developing      Protected Area     Improved       Sustaining        Sustaining
Systems for     and Boundary         Land         Biodiversity    Medicinal Plant
Resources    Demarcation and   Management                          Resources
Management       Conservation
A. Potential Ecological Implications
i. Effect on ecological integrity                      +                +                +               +                +
ii. Effect on productive systems                       +                +                +               +                +
iii. Effect on conservation areas                      +                +                +               +                +
iv. Effect on biodiversity                            +                 +               +               +                 +
B. Potential Implication for Natural Resource
i. Management of natural resources                     +                +                +               +                +
ii. Maintenance of natural resources base              +                +                +               +                +
iii. Wise use of natural resources                     +                +                +               +                +
iv. Enhanced plant/animal disease situation            +                +                +               +                +
v. Compatibility with defined environmental goals      +                +                +               +                +
C. Potential Socio-economic/Health Implications
i.  Resettlement of people/communities                 0                0                0               0                 0
ii. Traditional agricultural values and practices      +                +                +               +                +
iii. Social conflict                                   0                0                0               0                0
iv. Social values/acceptability                        +                0                +               +                +
v. Effect on essential life support systems            +                +                +               +                 +
vi. Effect on quality of life                          +                +                +               +                 +
vii. Effect on public health and safety                +                +                +               +                 +
viii. Improvement of price of agric products           +                +                +               +                 +
ix. Enhancement of community benefits                  +                +                +               +                +
x. Reasonable apportionment of cost and benefits       +                +                +               +                 +
xi. Reasonable apportionment of inter-generational     0                +                +               +                 +
equity.
xii. Gender sensitivity
+ Perceived impact beneficial             - Perceived significant adverse impact         0 No perceived significant impact or impact largely
residual
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project -EA                                                            Page               70



4.                                       Impact Analysis Matrix for Community-Based Management Actions
Environmental Parameters                   Field         Guidelines for     Pilot Cultivation  Education and      Gender &
Genebanks    Community Based           trials of     mass Awareness       Socio-
and            Resource          threatened        Campaigns on      economic
Sustainable      Management        Medicinal Plants  Conservation, and
Production of     Activities for     for Human &       Sustainable use
threatened    Sustainable use of     Livestock         Management
agro-           Savanna           Healthcare
biodiversity &     Resources
Medicinal
Species                                                          .
A. Potential Ecological Implications
i.    Effect on ecological integrity                  +                 +                  +                  +               +
ii.    Effect on productive systems                   +                 +                  +                  +               +
iii.    Effect on conservation areas                  +                 +                  +                  +               +
iv. Effect on biodiversity                           +                  +                  +                  +               +
B. Potential Implication for Natural Resource
i. Management of natural resources                    +                 +                  +                  +                +
ii. Maintenance of natural resources base             +                 +                  +                  +                +
iii. Wise use of natural resources                    +                 +                  +                  +                +
iv. Enhanced plantlanimal disease situation           +                 +                  +                  +                +
v. Compatibility with defined environmental goals     +                 +                  +                  +                +
C. Potential Socio-economic/Health Implications
i.  Resettlement of people/communities                0                 0                   0                  0               0
ii. Traditional agricultural values and practices     +                 +                  +                  +                +
iii. Social conflict                                  0                 0                  0                  0                0
iv. Social values/acceptability                       +                 +                  +                  +                +
v. Effect on essential life support systems           +                 +                   +                 +                +
vi. Effect on quality of life                         +                 +                   +                 +                +
vii. Effect on public health and safety               +                 +                   +                 +                +
viii. Improvement of price of agric products          +                 +                   +                 +                +
ix. Enhancement of community benefits                 +                 +                  +                  +                +
x. Reasonable apportionment of cost and benefits      +                 +                   +                 +                +
xi. Reasonable apportionment of inter-generational    +                 +                   0                  0               +
equity.                                                   0                 0                  +                  +               +
xii. Gender sensitivity
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project -EA                                                           Page              71



5.                                        Analysis Matrix for Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Environmental Parameters             Project Management Coordinating Unit    Biodiversity Project Monitoring & Evaluation
System
A. Potential Ecological Implications
i. Effect on ecological integrity                            0                                           +
ii. Effect on productive systems                             0                                           +
iii. Effect on conservation areas                            0                                           +
iv. Effect on biodiversity                                   0                                           +
B. Potential Implication for Natural Resource
i. Management of natural resources                            0                                          +
ii. Maintenance of natural resources base                     0                                          +
iii. Wise use of natural resources                            0                                          +
iv. Enhanced plant/animal disease situation                   0                                          +
v. Compatibility with defined environmental                                                              +
goals                                                             +
C. Potential Socio-economic/Health Implications
i.  Resettlement of people/communities                        0                                           0
ii. Traditional agricultural values and practices             0                                          +
iii. Social conflict                                          0                                          0
iv. Social values/acceptability                               +                                          +
v. Effect on essential life support systems                   0                                           +
vi. Effect on quality of life                                 0                                           +
vii. Effect on public health and safety                       0                                           +
viii. Improvement of price of agric products                  0                                           +
ix. Enhancement of community benefits                         +                                          +
x. Reasonable apportionment of cost and
benefits                                                          +                                          +
xi. Reasonable apportionment of inter-
generational equity.                                              0                                          +
xii. Gender sensitivity                                       0                                           +
+ Perceived impact beneficial             - Perceived significant adverse impact         0 No perceived significant impact or impact
largely residual
Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project -EA                                                            Page               72



