Report No. PID9766
Project Name                     Ghana-Northern Savanna Biodiversity (@)
Conservation Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Environment
Project ID                       GHPE67685
Borrower(s)                      GHANA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF LANDS AND FORESTRY
Ministry of Lands and Forestry
P.O. Box M212
Accra, Ghana
Contact Person: Mr. K.B. Boakye-Boateng,
NRMP Program Director
Tel: (233) (021) 687314, 687 336, 666 801
Fax: 233 (021) 666 801
Email: bbateng@mlf-gh.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 5, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 15, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
About 60 percent of the total population in Ghana is rural. Poverty is
highly concentrated in rural areas and among small farmers, particularly
in the savanna zones. The incidence of poverty in the rural areas is high
(36 percent) and accounts for 84 percent of total poverty in Ghana.
Social indicators are also very low for these areas. Ghana's limited
financial resources means that no extensive programs of social protection
are in place in these areas. To ensure that growth in Ghana benefits the
poor, the Government has emphasized an improved performance in agriculture
by increasing productivity of food crops and expanding opportunities in
commercial crops. Such initiatives place pressure on the environment and
to ensure sustainability of growth, the environmental concerns would need
to be adequately addressed. At the same time, the government's reform of
the health sector through implementation of its Medium Term Health
Strategy Towards Vision 2020 (MTHS) seeks to improve the health of
Ghanaians by increasing access, quality, and efficiency of health services
and forging linkages with other partners in health development.Savanna
ecosystems cover about 50 percent of the land area of Africa. In Ghana,
as in many areas in Africa, savanna woodlands provide valuable
environmental services and provide critical refuge for indigenous
biodiversity, and protection for soil and water resources against
degradation. The northern and coastal savanna zones support about 20
percent of the national population and supply about 70 percent of Ghana's
total supply of firewood and charcoal estimated at 16 million m3. The
area also provides medicinal plants, roofing grasses, fencing poles, and
fruits (e.g., shea-nut, an increasingly important export commodity).
Savanna bushmeat, including various indigenous rodents, antelopes,



reptiles and gastropods, is an important source of animal protein
(providing about 12 percent of the rural communities' protein consumption)
and revenue for local impoverished communities. The savanna woodlands
also have beneficial effects on the local climate and constitute a natural
barrier to the dessicating harmattan winds from the Sahara, helping to
maintain a favorable micro-climate for agricultural production in the
south.In the northern savanna region, the survival of indigenous land
varieties/races of important food crops and an increasing number of
medicinal plant species is being threatened. This is caused by the
expansion of agriculture into savanna and arid and semi-arid areas,
combined with over-grazing, bushfires, and inappropriate crop management
which contribute to degradation of biological diversity. Under the NSBCP,
guidelines would be developed to ensure the sustainable use and
propagation of threatened, indigenous crop varieties and medicinal plants,
and to ensure that genetic stocks and knowledge on biological resources
management and conservation including medicinal plant use would be
preserved. NSBCP would also focus on the conservation, management and
possible reintroduction on farmers' farms indegenous farmer crop varieties
which are being replaced by high-yielding, high input crop species and
varieties.
2. Objectives
(a) Development ObjectiveThe project's development objective is to
improve the livelihood and health of communities in the northern savanna
zone The northern savanna zone is comprised of two vegetation types: Sudan
and Guinea. They are not specifically identified in the text. of Ghana,
and the environment through the conservation and sustainable use of
natural resources including medicinal plants. Specific objectives are to:
(i) strengthen institutional capacity; (ii) improve the conservation and
management of globally and nationally significant plant and animal
species, and their habitats; (iii) develop a savanna resources management
strategy framework as a complement to the National Forest and Wildlife
Policy, based on improved capacity in the region; (iv) enhance community
involvement and adoption of improved biodiversity management plans and
conservation measures; and (v) increase community awareness of
biodiversity issues and maintenance of field gene banks of threatened
indigenous crop varieties and medicinal plants. Progress would be
determined by: (i) measurable poverty reduction statistics, (ii)
measurable improvement in the conservation and management of globally and
nationally significant plant and animal species, and their habitats; (iii)
the development of a savanna resources management strategy framework,
based on improved capacity in the northern savanna ecological region; (iv)
community involvement and adoption of improved biodiversity management
plans and appropriate conservation measures; and (v) increased community
awareness of biodiversity issues and maintenance of field gene banks of
threatened indigenous crop varieties and medicinal plants.(b) Global
objectiveThe global environment objective is to identify, monitor and
conserve key components of the biodiversity of the northern savanna zone.
This would be achieved by: (i) protecting the existing biodiversity in and
around reserve areas, adopting an ecosystem management approach, and
developing a comprehensive strategy and action plans to manage and
conserve the savanna biodiversity; (ii) identifying habitats and
'hotspots' of endemic species in need of greater protection, (iii)
protecting sacred groves and other dedicated reserves, and other sources
of biodiversity such as medicinal plants through cultivation and
- 2 -



conservation; (iv) preserving local knowledge of biodiversity conservation
and use including traditional medicine and its use; and (v) maintaining
the cultivation and protection of indigenous and threatened farmer crop
varieties. Progress would be measured by the number of hectares of
priority areas effectively managed in the savanna zone, the demonstrated
rejuvenation in terms of population numbers of the endemic, and rare
biotic species' populations threatened with decline, the number of
communities actively participating in the conservation, management and
propagation of important indigenous rare, threatened or endemic crops and
medicinal plants, and the improved security of natural habitats.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Management of biodiversity in the arid and semi-arid savanna ecosystem has
not been adequately covered by the Natural Resources Management Project
(NRMP) I. NSBCP is designed and needed to define a clear path for
targeted management of the savanna zone. The emphasis in NSBCP is placed
on a broader based operation which would focus on the sustainable
management of northern savanna resources while reducing poverty and
combating land degradation. Whereas NRMP I is developing overall strategy
for collaborative natural resources management, there is a need to
systematically define and develop specific action programs to enhance
global benefits by conserving savanna resources and combating
desertification. This project defines and develops concrete steps that
would be undertaken in order to achieve the global benefits of
biodiversity and natural resource management in the savanna areas of
northern Ghana. The development of NRMP II and III would link with this
project and address activities that have local, national and global
benefits.
4. Description
1. Project components The project would consist of five main components:
(a) formulation of a policy framework; (b) capacity building of key
government institutions playing a key role in the project's
implementation; (c) promotion of biodiversity conservation, research and
development; (d) developing community-based management actions; and (e)
project management, monitoring and evaluation.     (a) Formulation of a
Policy Framework. This component would support the development of a
policy framework for the conservation and management of northern savanna
biodiversity, and the development of policy and guidelines on Intellectual
Property Rights (IPR) for protecting and sharing indigenous knowledge.
Both policies are expected to have global implications and application
regarding the use, conservation and management of rare, or threatened
medicinal plants and farmer crop varieties. The process would be
consultative and would involve reaching agreements with all key
stakeholders including communities, farmers, associations and groups,
healers, and others involved. In addition, the component would support
the completion of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan which
would contain a section on a strategy on bio-prospecting.(b) Capacity
Building.   The project would strengthen the capacities of the MLF, MOH,
MEST, GHATRAN, SRMC, regional and disrict Governments, NGOs/CBOs, women
and youth groups, associations, and communities for implementing project
activities. The project would strengthen and the TAMD in collaboration
with the MLF and the MOH. The Directorate would provide the link between
MOH and the Federation of Traditional Healers and Regional Healer
Associations to ensure protection of indigenous healthcare, and with the
- 3 -



MLF to ensure sustainability of medicinal plant management. The project
would also fund a GIS database to monitor changes in the ecosystem, and a
herbarium to be linked with other research institutions (e.g., PGRC, SARI,
University of Development Studies (UDS) and the Ghana herbarium in
Legon).(c) Collaborative Biodiversity Conservation, Research and
Development. This component would support: (a) development of systems
including incentives for savanna resources management, (b) protected area
and boundary demarcations and biodiversity conservation, (c) improved land
management and restoration of degraded lands, (c) field gene banks
development and sustainability of threatened and declining
agro-biodiversity (including wildlife/game farming and establishment of
wildlife corridors), and (d) sustainable development and management of
medicinal plant resources. Management plans would be developed for pilot
areas, including at least 10 priority areas of protected forests and 3
wildlife reserves, and remedial programs designed and implemented with the
collaboration of local communities. Adjacent social and agricultural
systems would be taken into account and selection would be on the basis of
biological diversity in the area, main threats to the area, extent of
participation from the communities, and net global benefits. In addition,
to protect indigenous crop varieties, the component would fund
documentation, identification of threatened varieties, establishment of
gene banks, and cultivation and propagation of reintroduced varieties. (d)
Community-Based Management Actions. This component would build on
indigenous knowledge in sustainable use and conservation of natural
resources through community-based initiatives such as development of small
community infrastructure, formulation of community resource management
actions, and joint management of agro-biodiversity.     It would also
support the protection of sacred groves which are important indigenous and
traditional mechanisms for protecting biodiversity. Sacred groves are
being threatened by changes in religion, beliefs and practices as well as
uncontrolled burning and agricultural expansion. A comprehensive,
community-based public education and awareness focusing on the following:
general biodiversity conservation and natural resource use, codification
and dissemination of best land management practices, sustainable
development in the traditional renewable energy sector through intensive
woodlot development, wildfire prevention and management, and production of
training and information materials. (e) Project Management, Monitoring
and Evaluation. This component would support the strengthening of the
SRMC which would be responsible for supervising and monitoring
implementation of the project. Looking at the specialized nature of the
project and that the biodiversity of the savanna zone is being considered
for the first time on such a scope and level, a technically qualified
project coordinator (consultant) would need to be hired to coordinate
implementation for a period of six years. Working under the SRMC and the
SRMC Steering committee, the NSBCP coordinator would be directly
answerable to the Coordinator of the Savanna Resources Management Project.
There would be no need to establish at the project level a parallel
implementation unit or steering committee. The SRMC would build its
capacity and that of key stakeholders at all levels to monitor
implementation of activities and policies on savanna resource conservation
and management, and to evaluate their impacts (at local, regional,
national and global levels) on intended beneficiaries and natural
resources system.
5. Financing
-4-



Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 7.6
6. Implementation
Project implementation would be over six years. The implementation agency
would be led by the MLF and would be carried out through the existing
structures of the SRMC with participation from the following agencies:
MOFA, MEST/EPA, MOH, and the MLGRD. The multi-disciplinary nature of the
SRMC would facilitate coordination of implementation. Technical support
to implementation would be provided by a number of public, private and
civil society organizations. MOFA would lead and support issues regarding
agro-biodiversity, MEST/EPA would lend support to environmental management
and coordination, MOH would be responsible for the protection of
indigenous knowledge on health care and the provision of affordable health
care services through traditional healer associations; MLGRD and the
District Assemblies would support local level natural resource
management. At the project level, implementation would be supervised and
monitored by SRMC and project activiies coordination would be done by the
NSBCP Coordinator who would be recruited for a period of six years by
MLF. The Traditional Medicine and Alternative Department of MOH would
second a staff to SRMC who would assist the NSBCP Coordinator in the
implementation of activities related to medicinal plants and traditional
health care. NSBCP would be implemented in collaboration with regional
and district administrations (regional and district MOFA and EPA offices,
District Assemblies) and community associations (traditional healer
associations and NGOs such as Suntaa-Nuntaa and Taimako Herbal Clinic).
The project would be located in the Tamale SRMC.     Implementation would
also involve other agencies such as the University of Development Studies
(UDS) and the Northern Regional office of FORIG for training and research,
the Ministry of Agriculture (MoFA) for policy development, SARI for
agro-biodiversity research, PGRC for germplasm conservation and ex-situ
protection and the EPA for land degradation. The project would utilize
existing mechanisms developed under NRMP (i.e., the overall Program
Coordianting/Steering Committee (PCC), Donor-Government of Ghana
Coordination Meetings, Donors' Meetings, SRMP Steering Sub-committee,
Joint Donor-Government of Ghana Implementation Assistance/Sipport
Missions) to ensure the coordination and collaboration among donors in
supporting activities relating to savanna resources management and
conservation.   Efforts would be made for the project to share information
with other donors through field visits to project sites supported by other
donors, and joint workshops for government staff and local community
groups. The project would also hold regular briefings and would ensure
consistency in objectives with other donors. NSBCP would link up and build
synergies with Bank and non-Bank projects in the region.Under the project,
the land management sub-component would be implemented by the
Desertification Control Unit of the EPA based in Bolgatanga, with the
active collaboration of the Forest Services Division of the Forestry
Commission and other relevant Governmental and Non-governmental
organizations. The District and Community Environmental Management
Committees, among others, would play an active role in project
implementation.
7. Sustainability
Government's commitment in terms of sustaining policy reforms as well as
staff and funding of project initiatives after the project ends is
- 5 -



crucial. Success in developing community-based project design and
implementation is necessary if there is to be enduring project ownership
by the beneficiaries. Using clearly defined benchmarks, the project seeks
to enhance sustainable community use and management of savanna resources
while ensuring that globally significant biodiversity resources are
protected. This enhanced protection of biodiversity would need to be
based on negotiated agreements with the affected local communities that
demonstrate locally verifiable benefits in the form of alternative
livelihood system. The success of the project in encouraging
reforestation and rehabilitation of degraded savanna areas is crucial to
the sustainability of the envisioned biodiversity conservation measures.
Hence, Government's commitment to improving community knowledge and field
capacity for effective stewardship of biodiversity resources through
integrated land management strategies would ultimately determine the
sustainability of conservation achievements.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
n Problems of overlapping mandates of various national agencies and the
critical role of non-timber forest products in the health and well-being
of rural communities has been addressed in this project by streamlining
implementation, i.e., concentrating support on key agencies and
communities involved directly in management of the savannas. Specific
program focus is also allocated to cultural sites, medicinal plants and
agro-biodiversity.fn The positive lessons of a collaborative approach with
local communities, which recognizes right of access and use and seeks
economic growth compatible with maintaining global and national
conservation values, and methods for successful education and public
awareness campaigns have been integrated into the project's components.
The Community-Based Management Actions component and the Collaborative
Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Development component focus on
empowering communities living in or on the firnges of woodland and
wildlife resreves and within faunal corridors to fully participate in
resource management, establishing a gene bank and germplasm conservation
for medicinal plants and indigenous crops, formulating and implementing
community-based action plans on sustainable resources use, and mounting a
successful public education and awareness campaign.fn To achieve successful
natural resource management, people need to understand the practical
importance of biodiversity conservation and see it working in their local
context. This project would develop such awareness and understanding
through two inter-linked activities; a) the development and implementation
of a general biodiversity conservation and awareness program including the
multiple practical uses of the diverse natural resources of the region,
and b) codification and dissemination of best management practices for
land degradation control and regeneration, rehabilitation and woodlot
development, fire prevention and control. n To establish the long-term
sustainability of the fisheries resource and maximize its contribution to
the economy, the Fisheries Subsector Capacity Building project would
strengthen the Department of Fisheries (DOF) in the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture (MOFA) through reorganization and staff training; stock
assessment, and implementation of management plans for marine and inland
fisheries; improvement of extension in aquaculture; establishment of a
Monitoring, Control and surveillance systems for marine and inland
fisheries; and reform of the policy, legal and regulatory framework. The
main benefits would be improvement in the (i) management of fisheries
resources; and (ii) economic efficiency, performance and profitability of
- 6 -



the participants in the fishery. IDA Credit.n The project would build on
and link up with the Village Infrastructure Project by enhancing the role
of communities to develop, implement, manage and maintain natural resource
projects directly related to their socio-economic needs. IDA Credit.n The
NSBCP would support the identification of sustainable cultivation methods
for medicinal plant species as a component of Ghanaian savanna
agriculture, an element not identified in the Agricultural Services
Subsector Investment Program (AgSSIP).n The NSBCP would add the role
traditional healers (i.e., herbalists, bone setters, hanzams, psychic
healers and traditional birth attendants) play in basic healthcare in
Ghana and therefore to poverty reduction. Past health projects have
tended to overlook this area and have focused mainly on Western forms of
health interventions.n Indigenous crop diversity is being rapidly eroded.
Such crop varieties (cereals, legumes and roots/tubers) are an important
source of meeting farmers' socio-economic needs and food security in years
of drought. The project would focus on reversing this loss of important
agricultural germplasm and indigenous knowledge by collaborating with
farmers to enhance the reestablishment farmer varieties. The PGRC would
play an important role in achieving the objectives of this component.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The key pervasive natural resource management
issues in Ghana are land degradation and deforestation, and the loss of
biodiversity associated with unsustainable harvesting levels in the high
forest and in the savanna, compounded by inappropriate farming practices
and annual wildfires. Also related are issues of lack of effective
enforcement of institutional and policy framework for implementing
ecologically and socio-economically sustainable management systems for
high forest, savanna woodland and wildlife resources, in collaboration
with local communities. The major causes of loss of biodiversity and
natural resource degradations in the savanna zones are related to
tremendous pressure from growing human and livestock populations,
agricultural expansion , inappropriate farming practices, deforestation,
annual bush fires, and introduction of crop varieties that are replacing
indigenous varieties. Loss of vegetative cover and inappropriate farming
practices contribute increasingly to land degradation, interlinked with
other contributing factors such as: (a) a poorly developed market system
that does not price exploited natural resources at their real economic
value while providing easy, open access to dwindling but cheap natural
resources, (b) inefficient public regulating agencies with overlapping
responsibilities, (c) inadequate/negligible involvement of key
stakeholders including local communities in natural resource management,
(d) weak institutional capacity in the wildlife sector and little
involvement of communities in the management and sustainable use of
wildlife resource, (e) weak inter-agency coordination in
planning/monitoring natural resource use, especially at the district and
community levels, and (f) unavailability of any effective national or
local level policies, regulations or guidelines on issues related to land
tenure and ownership, right of access to and use of resources by rightful
owners, protection of indigenous knowledge, and intellectual property
rights.
11. Contact Point:
-7-



Task Manager
Hassan H. Hassan; Edward F. Dwumfour
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1376 (Hassan); (233-21) 229-681, 220-837
(Dwumfour)
Fax:   (202) 477-0565 (Hassan); (233-21) 227-887 (Dwumfour)
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 8 -



