Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 050723 GH
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement
(Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated April 2, 2002
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 050723 GH
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
 TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
Page  2
AGREEMENT, dated April 2, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in place on 
the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the 
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis set 
forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution 
No. 98-2);
(D)
the Bank has received a letter, dated April 12, 2001, from the Recipient 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve sustainable 
development of forest and wildlife resources and the conservation of biodiversity and the 
environment (the Program) and  declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
(E)
the Recipient, as part of the Program, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said request 
having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment 
of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be 
funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include 
funds carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 
94-2; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank for Currency Pool Loans, dated January 1, 1985, (as 
amended through October 6, 1999) with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Page  3
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (16), (17) 
and (19), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (a) and (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary 
Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing agency 
of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also 
include the Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
Page  4
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except as the 
Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations.”; and
(viii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (k) in Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Cedis” means the currency of the Recipient; 
(b)
“Development Credit Agreement” means the Agreement dated September 2, 
1998 between the Recipient and the Association for the financing of the Natural Resource 
Management Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3, and 4 set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan” means the Environmental and 
Social Mitigation Plan setting out measures to mitigate adverse environmental effects of the 
implementation of the Project, dated August 2001, as such plan may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Recipient and the Bank;
(f)
“EPA” means the Recipient's Environmental Protection Agency established 
pursuant to the Environmental Protection Agency Act (Act Number 490 of 1994) of the laws of 
the Recipient;
(g)
“MEST” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment, Science and 
Technology;
(h)
“MLF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Lands and Forestry;
(i)
“MLGRD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Local Government and Rural 
Development;
Page  5
(j)
“ME” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Energy;
(k)
“MoF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance;
(l)
“MOFA” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Foods and Agriculture;
(m)
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health;
(n)
 “NRMP” means the Natural Resource Management Program implemented by 
the Recipient under the Development Credit Agreement and supported by Credit No. 3091 GH of 
the International Development Association and GEF Trust Fund Grant No. TF 20412;
(o)
“NRMPCC” means the Natural Resource Management Program Coordination 
Committee established by the Recipient for purposes of implementation of its Natural Resource 
Management Program and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(p)
“NRMPCU” means the Natural Resource Management Program Coordinating 
Unit established by the Recipient for purposes of implementation of its Natural Resource 
Management Program and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(q)
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual to be adopted by the 
Recipient, pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement containing detailed arrangements 
regarding the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, in 
consultation with and with the consent of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Project Implementation Manual;
(r)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Part B of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(t)
“SRMC” means the Savanna Resources Management Center within MLF; and
(u)
“TAMD” means the Traditional and Alternative Medicines Directorate within 
MOH.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the 
Page  6
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 1, 2008 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
MLF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, and environmental practices and with due regard to ecological and biodiversity 
protection factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the 
objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
Page  7
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the Recipient, 
not later than March 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Trust 
Fund Grant during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Trust Fund Grant 
during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively  and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
Page  8
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Trust Fund Grant, as 
at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
Subject to paragraph (c) of this paragraph:
(i)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or grant 
of the Recipient shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor; or
(ii)
such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
(c)
Paragraph (b) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under 
such  agreement; and
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Recipient under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of the 
Page  9
GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Recipient has established financial management and accounting systems for 
the Project satisfactory to the Bank;   
(b)
the Recipient has adopted the PIM, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(c)
the Recipient has adopted an annual work program, including a procurement 
plan for the first year of implementation, satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
the Recipient has recruited the Project coordinator referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and
(e)
the Recipient has appointed independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M.40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile
ECONOMICON
2205
233 21 667069
Page  10
ACCRA
MIFAEPGH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
   64145 (MCI)
Page  11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Accra, 
Ghana, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
/s/ Yaw Osafo-Maafo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By
/s/ Peter C. Harrold
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Categories
Amount of the GEF
Trust Fund Grant
Allocated (Expressed in
SDR Equivalent)
% of
Expenditures to be 
Financed
1.   Goods, including
      Vehicles
 1,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 95% 
Page  12
of local expenditures
2.   Civil Works
    300,000
90%
3.   Consulting services,
      training and audit
  2,800,000
100%
4. Incremental Operating                               
Costs
  1,300,000
100%
5.   Unallocated
      500,000
   _______
TOTAL
6,000,000
=======
Page  13
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental costs incurred under 
the Project on account of office rental, fuel and maintenance for vehicles, equipment operation 
and maintenance, utilities, office supplies, communication expenses, staff travel and associated 
subsistence allowances, salaries for contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries of the 
Recipient's civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (c) 
consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (d) consultants' 
services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (e) training and 
Incremental Operating Costs under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for 
deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in dollars a separate special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be deposited into 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  14
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
Page  15
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $400,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
Page  16
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
1.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all withdrawals 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management 
Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Page  17
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in efforts to improve the livelihood, 
health and environment of communities in the northern savanna zone of its territory, and more 
specifically to: (a) strengthen institutional capacity for biodiversity conservation; (b) improve the 
conservation and management of globally and nationally significant plant and animal species, 
and their habitats; (c) develop a savanna resources management strategy framework; (d) enhance 
community involvement and adoption of improved biodiversity management plans and 
conservation measures; and (e) increase community awareness of biodiversity issues and 
maintenance of gene banks of threatened indigenous crop varieties and medicinal plants.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A
: Formulation of a Policy Framework
1.
Development, through a consultative process involving stakeholders, of: (a) a policy 
framework for the conservation and management of northern savanna biodiversity; (b) policies, 
regulations and guidelines for collection and protection of  bioresources,  intellectual property 
rights on use of biodiversity, biosafety, compensation for use of indigenous knowledge, 
regulation of traditional healers and birth attendants, and incentives for cultivation of crop 
varieties and plant species; and (c) draft legislation for intellectual property rights on biodiversity 
use and collection of bioresources.
2.
Completion and adoption of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, 
including a strategy on harvesting and bioprospecting of plant species for pharmaceutical uses.  
Part B
: Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening the capacities of national, district and local agencies and civil society, 
including the EPA, District Assemblies, MEST, MLF, MLGRD, MOFA, MOH, NRMPCC, 
NRMPCU, and SRMC for natural resource management and biodiversity conservation in the 
northern savanna zone of the Recipient, including construction of office accommodation, rangers 
camps and observation posts.
2.
Provision of professional development, leadership and training in biodiversity 
conservation to beneficiaries at the national, district and community levels.
3.
Development of data, inventory and management information systems to support natural 
resources management, including the establishment of a herbarium and of databases on usage, 
distribution and status of medicinal plants used in human and livestock healthcare.
4.
Development of participatory natural resource and biodiversity management, including 
Page  18
4.
Development of participatory natural resource and biodiversity management, including 
protected areas management and planning guidelines.
5.
Carrying out of public awareness and education programs related to biodiversity 
conservation, in particular, park and reserve management; and 
6.
Strengthening of medicinal plant conservation and management and traditional medicine 
services and delivery systems and organizations, including assistance to TAMD for the 
establishment of regional traditional healers’ associations.   
Part C
: Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Development
1.
Development of regional and community-based natural resource management systems, 
including incentives for savanna resources management, through the carrying out of relevant 
biological, socio-economic or ecological surveys and studies.
2.
Ensuring adequate management of protected areas and community resource conservation 
through the establishment of wildlife protected area management boards or committees and 
forest management committees, maintenance of protected area demarcation, the development of 
strategies to reduce illegal bushmeat harvesting, the formulation of community-based actions to 
minimize or stop group hunting, the provision of support for bushfire prevention and control and 
the promotion of wildlife domestication.
3.
Improving land management and restoration of degraded areas through the carrying out 
of a bio-physical and socio-economic baseline survey and action plans of the selected 
communities for off-reserve area management, selection of communities and affected areas to be 
included in the Project, supporting of community-level committees, carrying out of sensitization 
and awareness campaigns, education and training programs for bushfire prevention squads, 
protection and maintenance of pilot areas, and distribution of plant seedlings to schools in the 
communities.
4.
Establishment and designation of biodiversity-rich wildlife corridors to connect small 
and unsustainable islands of biodiversity.
5.
Sustaining medicinal plant resources through the carrying out of studies to  assess the 
supply and demand of current medicinal plants used for human diseases and livestock diseases, 
develop guidelines for the sustainable harvesting of medicinal plant species in protected sites 
when ex-situ conservation/cultivation is not possible; and methods for the propagation and 
cultivation of selected medicinal plant species.
Part D
: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Carrying out of Project administration, management and monitoring activities by the 
Project Management Coordinating Unit, through the rehabilitation of office facilities, the 
provision of technical advisory services and training and the acquisition of goods including 
Page  19
vehicles and office equipment.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, office and field equipment, 
communication equipment and computers shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
Page  20
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Spare parts and accessories which are of proprietary nature and costing $100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $100,000  equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
Page  21
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of 
consultants for each contract under the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing under Part D of the Project and for engineering may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for capacity building, collaborative biodiversity conservation, research and 
development, community-based management actions under Parts B and C of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Page  22
Guidelines.
 3.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to any contract for the employment of a consulting firm or an 
individual consultant under the Project, the draft terms of reference shall be submitted to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  23
Implementation Program
1.
Overall Project Coordination:
The Recipient shall designate and maintain the NRMPCC as the entity responsible for 
overall Project coordination and supervision. The NRMPCC shall have the responsibility to 
review, on a quarterly basis, proposed work plans and budgets, monitor implementation 
performance and foster inter-agency and inter-ministerial cooperation in the management of the 
country's natural resources. Members of the NRMPCC shall include representatives, at the 
director level, from the following ministries: MLF, MOFA, MoF, MOH, MEST, MLGRD and 
ME, and their implementing agencies, representatives of private sector organizations, 
nongovernmental organizations and academic institutions and donors.
2.
Project Administration and Management
:
The  Recipient shall designate and maintain the NRMPCU as the entity within MLF 
which shall have overall responsibility for Project management and coordination, including the 
preparation of the annual work plans, budgeting and finance, maintenance of a proper financial 
management and accounting system for the Project, preparation of bidding documents and 
monitoring of the overall procurement process, management of technical assistance activities and 
the preparation of a Project completion report. NRMPCU shall recruit a Project coordinator who 
shall be responsible for day-to-day management of the Project with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Specific responsibility for Project supervision and monitoring shall be 
exercised by SRMC.
3.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, about March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2005, or such later dates as the Bank shall agree, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 30, 2003 and by April 30, 2005, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Bank's views on the matter.
4.
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth in the 
PIM and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend or waive any provision thereof if 
such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Bank, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
Page  24
5.
The Recipient shall carry out all actions required under the Environmental and Social 
Mitigation Plan to mitigate and compensate for the impacts that have been identified through the 
environmental and social impact assessment in accordance with the time table set forth therein.
6.
The Recipient shall ensure that the people living inside the Gbele Resource Reserve prior 
to the 2000 census shall be permitted to continue to live in the reserve and shall be eligible for 
benefits under Part C of the Project description.
7. 
The Recipient shall:
(a)   not later than October 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank for review and comments a 
draft annual work program and supporting budget for the succeeding calendar year;
(b)   not later than November 30 in each year: (i) review with the Bank the documents 
referred to in paragraph (a) above; (ii) identify implementation issues and propose appropriate 
solutions; and (iii) update Project timetables and performance indicators;  
(c)   not later than December 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank for its comments and final 
approval the work program and budget referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, as such program and 
budget shall have been revised to the satisfaction of the Bank in the course of the review referred 
to in paragraph (b) hereof and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, carry out the Project in 
the year in question on the basis of the said work program and budget as so revised.
