Docum'1
The Wor
FOR OFFICIAt
&/d AI3-k<
Report No. 9462-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
AUGUST 13, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1990)
Currency Unit - Won (W)
US$1.00 -- W700
W1,000   US$1.43
$ in this report refers to the US4
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - 1ecember 31
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
bbl             barrel
bcm             billion cubic meter
Btu             British thermal unit
kW              kilowatt
kWh             kilowatt-hours
kcal            kilocalories (c 3.968 Btu)
Gcal            gigacalories (million kcal)
nmt             million metric tons
mty             million tons per year
MW              megawatt (1,000 kW)
ppm             parts per million
toe             ton of oil equivalent (= 9.718 GCal)
Twh             terawatt-hours (billion kwh)
ug              microgram
ABBREVIATIONS
CGA             City Gas Association
CGC             City-Gas Company
CHP             Combined heat ana power (generation)
CO              Carbon Monoxide
CO2             Carbon dioxide
EA              Environmental Assessment
H(FG            Heavy Fuel Oil
IDC             Interest During Construction
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
KDHC            Korea District Heating Corporati
KEEI            Korea Energy Economics Institute
KEMCO           Korea Energy Management Corporation
KEPCO           Korea Electric Power Corporation
KGC             Korea Gas Corporation
KGSC            Korea Gas Safety Corporation
LNG             Liquefied Natural Gac
LPG             Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MOER            Ministry of Energy and Resources
NFA             Net Fixed Assets
NPV             Net Present Value
O&M             Operation and maintenance
SO2             Sulfur dioxide
TSP             Total Suspended Particulates



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GxAS bsYSEM KEXANSION PROJEC
Loan and Prolect S=mmr
Borrewer               Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:           Korea Gas Corporation (KGC)
Amount:                US$100 million equivalent
Terns:                 15 years including a grace period of five years, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Termns:     The Government would relend the proceeds of the Bank
loan to KGC on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan. KGC would bear the foreign exchange and
interest rate risks.
Project Objectives:     The project  aims  to  (a)  provide  the  additional
infrastructure   quired to facilitate the import and
utilization of 5 mty of liquefied natural gas by
1995, thereby improving the efficiency of energy use
in Korea and mitigating its impact on air quality in
urban areas; and (b) strengthen KGC's operational
performance and management, particularly in the area
of financial management.
Project Description:    The project consists of the following components:
(a) extension of the Pyong Taek LNG receiving
terminal, (b) construction of additional pipeline
capacity   to   deliver   the   increased   terminal
throughput; and (c) utilization of consultants'
services for the engineering of terminal extension
and pipeline expansion. The terminal extension
component comprises the installation of two 100,000
m3 LNG storage tanks and additional regasification
and gas send-out facilities. The pipeline component
expands the existing pipeline system covering the
Seoul metropolitan area, and installs a trunkline
from Pyong Taek to Tae Jon to support natural gas
market developments in the Central Region.
Benefits:               The  project  will  have  significant  economic  and
environmencal bene.fits.   The project will support
the use of natural gas in combined-cycle power and
combined heat and power plants which have been shown
to be parts of the least-cost solution to Korea's
power and residential space heating development re-
quirements. Use of natural gas instead of coal will
lead to a significant improvement in air quality by
reducing emissions of sulfur dioxide and particula-
tes.
Risks:                  The project faces technical risks inherent to the
gas industry.   The probability of these hazards
arising, however, is minimal as the necessary safety
devices will be included in the design of project
facilities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs.
Local      Foreign       Total
---      US$ million---------
Terminal Extension Component
Phase I                                 82.5        44.3        126.8
Phase II                                67.0        34.5        101.5
Subtotal                          149.5         78.8        228.3
Pipeline Component
Seoul Metropolitan Area                161.9        12.2        174.2
Central Region Trurkline               137.4        10.9        148.3
Subtotal                          299.3         23.2322,5
Duties and Taxes                            10.3           --        10.3
Base Cost                                  459.1        102.0       561.1
Physical. Contingency                       45.0          9.7        54.7
Price Contingency                           52.7          9.6        62.3
Total Proiect Cost&/                       556.8       121.3        678.1
Interest During Construction                24.0         30.0        54.0
Total Financing Reguirements               580.8        151.3       732.1
Financing Plan:
Internal Cash Generation                     100            -         100
Capital Increase                             250            -         250
IBRD                                           -          100         100
Other Borrowings                             231           51         282
Total                                    581         151          732
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year         92        94              95       96      97
---------(US$ million)-------------
Annual                   10       22       20      24       14      10
Cumulative               10       32       52      76       90     100
Economic Rate of Return:     29X
L/ Inclusive of taxes and duties



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXMANSION rRO
STAFF APPRMSAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ..........  ................................... .                 I
I.    THE ENERGY SECTOR ...................  . .................                          I
A.    Sector strategy  ............................................                 I
B.   Energy Balance ...................................                             2
C.   Electric Power Development  .........................                          3
D.   Future Trends  ........ .........................                              4
II.   THE GAS SECTOR  ............                 .....................                  4
A.   General  S.......................................                              5
B.   Gas Demand  .                                                                  7
C.   Comparison with Alternative Fuels   ....................                       8
D.   Environmental Impacts of Natural Gas  .................                       12
E.   Government Policies    ......................*.....                           13
F.   The Supply of LNG   ...............................                           15
G.   Rationale for Bank Involvement .......................                        15
iII.  THDE PROJECT  ......... ... .................... Q.40 ..0.... O*..                 16
A.   KGC's Investment Program  ..........................                          16
B.   Project Objectives  .................................                         17
C.   Project Description  .................. r . ............. .                   17
D.   Project Costs and Financing Plan   .....................                      18
E.   Project Implementation and Schedule   ..................                      20
F.   Environmental Considerations  .......................                        21
G.   Procurement and Disbursements  ......................                        23
H.   Monitoring and Reporting  ...........................                        26
This report was prepared following a mission to Korea in December 1990 consisting
of Jean-Paul Pinard (Task Manager), John Homer, Salahuddin Khwaja, Henry Schober,
Rebecca Sekse (World Bank) and Chris Brierley (Consultant). M. Farhandi managed
the post-appraisal task. Peer reviewers were Darayes Mehta, Selina Shum and Hossein
Razavi. The Project was cleared by Mr. Gautam Kaji, Director AS2DR and Mr. Inder
K. Sud, Chief, AS2IE.



IV.   TlHE BENEFICL4,RY    ..................                                                                  ..... 26
A.    Background   ......................................                                           26
B.    Organization   ....................................                                           27
C.    StaMng and 1rainirng   . a * * * * * * * .............................   .                    27
D.    Operations and Management  .........................                                          28
E.    Financial Control and Auditing   .  ......................                                    28
F.    Insurance ...................................                                                 31
G.    Research and Development .............................                                        31
V.    FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  ..................**...**....* **  ** * * *                                     32
A.    Introduction    *******,**.****.....................................                          32
B.    Gas Trade Arrangements  . .......................... .                                        32
C.    Past Financial Performance and Present Position    .........                                  33
D.    Future Financial Performance   .......................                                        36
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ...................                                                  40
A.    Beneflts from  Fuel Substitution   .......................                                    41
B.    Environmental Benefits   ..........     .............................  .                      43
C.    Project Risks  .............................................                                  43
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .....   . .....*.. ...*.   44
A.    Agreements and Understandings   ......................                                        44
B.    Recommendation   .................................                                            45



ANNEXES
1.   Projected Supply-Demand of LNG  ..................... .. .   46
2.   Netback Value of Gas in Power Sector .....          ..............6...    47
3.   KGC Investment Program   ........... .   .............................   49
4.   Project Description ..........  ...................................   S0
S.   Project Cost Estimates ................................                   52
6.   Annual Capital Expenditures .... ........................    54
7.   Pyong Taek Terminal Expansion - Implementation Schedule .....   56
8.   Mid-zone Trunkline - Implementation Schedule  ..............   57
9.   Seoul Metropolitan Area Pipelines - Implementation Schedule  ...    58
10.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule  ........................    59
11.   The Pyong Taek LNG Import Terminal ...... ...............    60
12.   Natural Gas Transmission System  .......... . .............    64
13.   KGC - Historical Financial Statements              .....................    66
14.   KGC - Projected Financial Statements .....................    69
15.   Assumptions for Financial Analysis ........ .. .... .........    73
16.   Economic Rate of Return on Investment ....................   77
17.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File  ........   79
CHART
KGC Organization
MAP IBRD 22793



KOQREA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPO
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
1. THE ENERGY SECTOR
1.1      Korea is almost devoid of indigenous commercial energy resources:  its
energy endowment consists essentially of limited hydroelectric power (2,300 MW)
and high-cost anthracite coal (750 million tons of recoverable reserves).
Because its high-growth, industrializing economy is highly energy-intensive --
the second highest in Asia after Japan --, Korea has grown increa3ingly
dependent on imported fuels. Owing to the magnitude of the amounts involved --
energy imports in 1989 totalled $6.7 billion or 11% of total imports -- and
related strategic considerations, a central preoccupation of the Government of
Korea (GOK) has been the development of an effective fuel import strategy. In
formulating policies to bear on the country's energy mix (essentially a choice
between oil products, coal, natural gas and nuclear energy), the Government
focusses its attention on three critical areas: security of supply, relative
fuel prices and, increasingly, their environmental impact.
1.2      In 1981, in the wake of the oil crisis, the Government decided to take
a lead role in organizing the import of liquefied natural gas (LNG). The state-
owned Korea Gas Corporation (KGC) was established for this purpose.   Actual
delivery began in 1987 at the rate of about 2 million tons per year (mty), which
now represents about 3X of total primary energy consumption. Whether LNG should
be called over time to play a broader role in meeting the energy needs of Korea
was a matter of some debate during the last few years.  The Bank proposed to
assist in addressing the issue and, in 1089, joined the Korea Energy Ecoaomics
Institute (KEEI) and KGC in carrying out a Gas Utilization Study (Report No.
8142-KO, January 23, 1990) for this purpose. The objectives of the study were:
(a) to establish the scope for economic use of gas in Korea; (b) to assess the
viability of alternative investment scenarios in gas infrastructure to meet
projected demand; (c) to outline the possible role of natural gas in reducing
air pollution in Korea; and (da to review the adequacy of the sector's
institutional and policy framework in meeting government objectives. The study
concluded, inter alia, that the target set by KGC to import some 10 million tons
of LNG annually by 2010 (or 7.3X of total primary energy in that year) was
reasonable. The proposed project was prepared as an aftermath of the study. It
comprises the facilities required to step up LNG imports from 2 mty to 5 mty by
the end of 1995.
A. Sector Strategy
1.3      Oil from the Middle East was for a long time, and in some respects has
remained, the mainstay of Korea's energy base.  However, the 1983 oil crisis,
and the severe implications this had for Korea's balance of payments, prompted
the Government to revise its approach to energy imports and reduce Korea's
hitherto almost exclusive reliance on imports from the Middle East.   A new



- 2 -
strategy was developed cd. :ing the 1980s   alling for:  (a) reducing Korea's
dependence on oil by diversifying into alternative energy sources, including
imported coal, LNG, and nuclear energy; (b) selecting a wider spectrum of energy
suppliers and participating in oil ventures overseas to better secure oil
supplies; and (c) fostering energy con"ervation.   Korea pursued these policy
changes with much success: dependence on oil imports from the Middle East fell
from almost 100% in 1978 to less than 65% in 1989, with supplies now originating
from over twelve countries.   Korean participation in exploration projects has
been  secured  in several  countries.    Petroleum exploration  in Korea's  own
offshore areas by the Korea Petroleum Development Corporation (PEDCO), while so
far unsuccessful in locating oil reserves, has led to the discovery of gas
deposits east of 2usan; these are being further investigated to ascertain their
possible commercial development.   The development of nuclear energy and the
importation of LNG have been important facets of the diversification drive
promoted by GOK.   As a result, oil imports have been stabilized in relative
terms around 50% of total primary energy demand, although they are still growing
at abouit 10% p.a., close to the rate of growth in overall energy demand.
1.4      On the demand side, the energy intenaity of the economy was reduced,
partly through efficiency gains and partly through a reduction in the relative
share of energy-intensive industries to the advantage of light manufacturing.
The energy elasticity of GDP growth is currently close to one; it was much
higher during the 1960s and 70s when heavy industries were expanding, but had
fallen well below one in the early 1980s when the bulk of industrial activity
was shifted to higher technology manufacturing.
1.5      GOK's general goal in the sector is to bring about greater efficiency
in the use of energy while minimizing its impact on the environment. Specific
objectives have been set accordingly, namely: (a) to ensure the conformity of
public investment with least-cost development principles; (b) to emphasize
market forces in the pricing of energy, partly through gradual deregulation of
petroleum product prices and trade; (c) to manage the growth in electricity
demand through efficient pricing policies and load management techniques; (d) to
promote the development of high-efficiency forms of energy utilization (e.g.,
cogeneration and other cost-effective energy alternatives); (e) to tighten
progressively the environmental standards pertaining to use of energy; (f) to
improve the efficacy of the institutional setup, in part by strengthening the
performance of public enterprises and maximizing reliance on the private sector.
B. Energy Balance
1.6      Korea's total primary energy consumption in 1989 amounted to about 82
million tons of oil equivalent (toe), 29% of which was produced domestically.
Imported LNG accounted for 2.6 million toe or 3.2% of total energy demand.
Petroleum
1.7      Korea  is  entirely  dependent  on  imports  to  meet  its  petroleum
rquirements.    Consumption  (287 million bbl  in 1989)  is dominated by  the
industrial sector (38%) and the transport sector (30%). An important



-3
development in the petroleum subsector relates to GOK's progressive tightening
of fuel quality standards, which calls for major investments in cracking and
desulfurization facilities by the refiners.
Coal
1.8      Korea produces about 45% of the solid fuels it consumes, but coal
reserves are becoming depleted and production costs are high. Korea is now the
second largest coal importer in the world (after Japan).  It imports its coal
from Australia (40%), South Africa (25%), Canada (16%) and the United states
(14%).  Total imports amounted to 25 million .ons in 1989 (17 million toe).  Use
of coal in the power sector (8 million tons or 17% of total coal consumption in
1989) is expected to multiply more than five-fold over the next decade.
Domestic anthracite, which is used mostly in the fabrication of briquettes for
domestic space heating, is the main source of energy for an estimated 7.5
million, mostly low-income households. Anthracite production
(20 million tons in 1989), which benefits from protection against cheaper
imports, is progressively declining as the Government is now encouraging the
abandonment of uneconomic mines.
C, Electric Power Development
1.9      The total generation capacity available to the Korea Electric Power
Corporation (KEPCO) at the end of 1989 was approximately 21,000 MW, of which
nuclear plants accounted for 36%, thermal stations for 53% and hydropower, 11%.
Gross electricity generation during the year was 94.5 terawatt-hours (TWh),
about half of which originated from nuclear plants. Following the inception of
LNG imports, 2,550 MW of thermal capacity (at Pyong Taek and Incheon) originally
designed for oil-firing were shifted to gas-firing; LNG accounted in 1989 for
10% of total electric power generation.
1.10     KEPCO expects power demand to grow at about 7% p.a. during the next 10
years, which would require bringing on stream some 16,000 MW of additional
capacity. Gas-fired units will account for about 37% of this program (in terms
of capacity) as LNG-fuelled combined-cycle plants have been found to be the most
economic alternative to meet intermediate loads.   This increased reliance on
gas-fuelled units also results from KEPCO's growing difficulties in siting new
coal and nuclear plants in the face of the strong objections of the local
population.l'   Current plans provide for 4,400 MW of gas-fired capacity to
become operational between 1992 and 1994. This includes the first two blocks of
a 4x940 MW combined-cycle plant at Incheon, a 450 MW combined-cycle plant at
Pyong Taek, and four combined heat/power (CHP) units (with a total capacity of
2,100 MW) designed in part to supply district heating systems in the vicinity of
Seoul. The proposed gas project is largely motivated by the fuel requirements
of these new power plants (2.7 mty by 1995).
J/  Note that, in the case of coal plants, these concerns arise in spite of GOK's established
policy of having all new plants equipped with scrubbers to control emissions of sulfur
dioxide (SO2).



-4
D. Future Trends
1.11      Forecasts of Korea's energy balance (prepared by KEEI) are shown in
Table 1.1 below.  These forecasts anticipate an average annual growth rate for
primary energy demand of 5.2% between 1989 and the year 2000, compar -' with an
expected growth rate of GDP of 7% p.a.   The implied energy/CDP elah.~city of
0.74 is in line with what was achieved during the mid-1980s but may be somewhat
optimistic as a long-term parameter in view of the sharp growth in energy demand
experiernced during the last three years as the impact of previous energy
conservation programs started to erode. Petroleum is expected to maintain its
predominant position,  accounting for about 50% of total requirements.   LNG
imports are projected to increase from their present level of 2 million tons
(2.6 million toe) to 6.3 millior. -s:s by the year 2000 and 10.4 million tons by
the year 2010. These levels would be equivalent, respectively, to 6.9% and 7.3%
of total primary energy demand in these two years.
Table 1.1: Korea's Primary Energy Demand (1989-2010)
(in million toe)
Average
1989    1995    2000    2010   Growth Rate
D.a. (X)
Petroleum                40.5    61.4    74.9    94.2          4.1
LNG                       2.6      7.4     9.8    13.7          8.2
Coal                     24.5    30.8    34.1    43.1           2.7
Hydro/Nuclear            13.0    15.3    21.9    33.2           4.6
Renewables                1.0      1.4     1.9      3.5         5.9
Total Primary Energy    81.7   116.2   142.6   187.7            4.0
Source: KEEI
2. THE GAS SECTOR
2.1      Korea's gas sector is presently dominated by the importation of natural
gas in the form of LNG. Two key considerations contribute to give these imports
a strategic dimension. First, unlike other imported fuels (e.g., oil and coal),
LNG requires commitments to be made well ahead of time because of the magnitude
and long lead time of investments required, both in field development and
liquefaction facilities in the producing country, and in terminal and pipeline
infrastructure  in  the  importing  country.       This  aspect  is  particularly
significant here because Korea i^- an incipient gas market and large investments
in local pipeline reticulation are also required to bring gas to consumers.
Second, partly because of the massive investments involved, LNG is a relatively
expensive fuel and its utilization is therefore limited to applications where:
(a) enhanced convenience or gains in end-use efficiency compensate for differen-
tials in energy costs; or (b) gas offers positive environmental externalities
which are deemed socially advantageous to capture. Clearly, imports have to be



effected on a surficient scale to Justify the necessary infrastructure.   This
requires a concerted d3rision on the part of the Government, in part motivated
by enviroTmental considerations,  to promote the use of LNG as a major fuel
source and adopt appropriate pricing and other policies to bring about an
adequate level of usage.
2.2      The initial decision to import LNG (from Indonesia) and the more recent
one to step up the level of imports over time are thus particularly significant.
The origizal decision was intended to: (a) diversify fuel supplies away from
Middle Eascern oil; (b) address environmental concerns arising from the use of
more polluting, liquid and sclid fuels in urban areas; and (c) strengthen
trading links with Indonesia,   Importing LNG was also seen as a means of
improving the quality of service to individual (residential, commercial or
industrial) energy users by providing a clean, convenient fuel at a competitive
cost. Using gas for power generation was not originally seen as an attractive
alternative.    Since  then,  however,  the  development  of  new  power  plant
configurations has considerably modified the prospects for using gas es a cost-
effective and environmentally acceptable power fuel; this has led to a
significant revision in LNG use forecasts and tc KGC's decision to contract
additional LNG quantities.
A. General
2.3      The first assessment of the rationale for importing LNG into Korea
dates back to 1979. A decision to negotiate with Indonesia for gas supplies was
taken by the Goverinent irn 1981 and a contract (between KEPCO and Pertamina)
signed in 1983.   This contract (since then taken over by KGC) provides for
Imports of two mty of LNG for 20 years, starting in 1987. Targetted consumers
included households, commerce and industries located in ths Seoul metropolitan
area. Because these markets could only be captured over time with the phased
development of distribution (city-gas) networks, Korea had to resort to the
measure, initially seen as an expedienc, of burning the quantities of gas
required to trigger a gas import scheme in power stations originally designed
for oil-firing. This achieved significant environmental benefits although at a
cost that was for several years considered as excessive. Ir*erestingly, despite
the emergence of alternative markets for the gas, G0K now insists that gas
continue to be used in thermal power plants located close to urban centers.
Significantly lar&ar gas quantities, however, will be used in the new gas-
dedicated power plants which KEPCO will be constructing over the next two to
four years.
Institutional Arrangements
2.4      The Government established KGC in 1983 as the agency responsible for
the overall planning, operation and management of the infrastructure
necessitated by the import of LNG.  KGC's main objective has been to promote the
use of LNG in accordance with government policies and to plan and implement the
gradual  expansion  of  its  gas  system  accordingly.    KGC  falls  under  the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Energy and Resources  (HOER), which directs
pulicy making and oversees public investment in the energy sector.



- 6 -
2.5      While KGC was made responsible for the construction and operation of
basic gas infrastructure (i.e., terminal and main transmission lines),
responsibility for constructing and operating smaller pipeline reticulation to
distribute gas to individual (residential, commercial and industrial) consumers
has been vested in a number of private city-gas companies (CGCs) licensed to
operate in Seoul and other major cities.  GOK strategy has been to have these
city-gas systems operate initially on manufactured gas (i.e., LPG-air mix or
naphtha-based gas) in order to build up gas markets, and convert them to natural
gas when it would become available.   To date, 21 CGCs have been established,
seven of which, covering the Seoul/Incheon area, have been converted to natural
gas. The CGCs are grouped under the umbrella of a City Gas Association (CGA),
which acts as intermediary between the companies and the Government, KGC, local
authorities and individual equipment manufacturers.   CGA is responsible for
coordinating preparation by the CGCs of annual three-year investment plans as
required by the Government, and for data collection, promotional activities, and
ad hoc advice to customers.
2.6      Another important agency in the gas sector is the Korea Gas Safety
Corporation (KGSC), which is responsible for the preparation of all safety codes
and regulations for gas distribution and utilization.   The scope of KGSC's
activities is fairly broad, covering equipment and appliance testing, safety
control research, and on-site inspection of gas plants, pipelines and customer
equipment. Finally, the Korea Energy Management Corporation (KEMCO), which was
established in 1980 to assist with government efforts at rationalizing energy
utilization, is involved in a number of projects relevant to gas operations,
including cogeneration and district heating schemes.
Existing Facilities
2.7      KGC Infrastructure.   The facilities operated by KGC include an LNG
receiving terminal and a system of transmission pipelines serving the Seoul
metropolitan area. Construction of these facilities was completed in 1986 at a
total cost of about W440 billion ($600-650 million at historical exchange
rates).
2.8      The LNG import terminal is located on a 420,000 sq m landsite at Asan
Bay near Pyong Taek, 60 km south of Seoul. It is equipped with four LNC storage
tanks each with a capacity of 100,000 cu m, and is capable of a maximum annual
throughput of three million tons of LNG.   The terminal includes an unloading
jetty with a connecting trestle pier and equipment for LNG regasification
(vaporization).
2.9      After regasification, natural gas is supplied to the adjacent (4x350
MW) Pyong Taek power station and, by way of a pineline transmission system, to
the (2x250 MW) Incheon power station -nd the seven CGCs operating in che Seoul
metropolitan area.   KGC's transmission system presen ly consists of a 98-km
high-pressure pipeline linking Pyong Taek to Incheon and a medium-pressure, 128-
km long, circular network, branching off from the main line and connected to the



-7-
city ga>i systems through seven governor stations. KGC's facilities are managed
from a central control station in Pyong Taek city which assures a safe and
stable supply through remote co.ntrol and monitoring devices.
2.10     City Gas Systems.   Until 1987, the city gas industry consisted of
independent gas systems fed by gas plants and supplying gas mostly to
residential consumers.   The introduction of LNG and co.struction of a loop
around the Seoul/Incheon area has made it possible to deliver gas in much larger
quantities, not only to households, but also to commercial and industrial
consumers.   The LNG market now represents approximately 800,000 residential
consumers and 8,000 commercial and industrial consumers.   The CGCs' combined
systems amount to some 2,000 km of main and distribution pipelines and 1,200
regulator stations.'
B. Gas Demand
2.11     As already indicated,  the import of LNG was initially intended for
residential,  commercial and industrial consumption.   Use of gas  in (steam
turbine) power plants was seen only as an expedient to utilize the full quantum
of contracted LNG pending development of city-gas markets. Use of gas by city-
gas consumers amounted to 0.6 million tons in 1990 and is currently expected to
reach 1.5 mty by 1995 and 2.8 mty by the year 2000.   While natural gas is
presently available in the Seoul metropolitan area only, KGC's construction
program provides for the phased installation of a pipeline grid designed to
supply progressively the central, southeastern and southwestern regions of Korea
(by 1993, 1995 and 1997, respectively) (para 3.3). Delays in this program would
not materially affect total city-gas sales over the next ten years as the Seoul
area will remain by far the dominant market during this period.
2.12     The key change in gas demand since the original LNG contract was signed
is that KEPCO will shift from acting simply as a swing consumer to become a
bona-fide gas user with its own firm demand. Future gas demand from the power
sector will originate from: (a) a number of existing thermal power plants,
essentially to accommodate government environmental guidelines; (b) a new (4x940
MW) combinrd-cycle power plant to be located on the island of Il Do at Incheon;
and (c) four new CHP stations in the Seoul area (also based on a combined-cycle
design).  Total gas demand from power units is projected to account for about
68% of total LNG use during the next ten years.
2.13     The latest LNG demand scenarios prepared by KGC (Annex 1) project a
total demand of 4.9 mty by 1995 and 7.2 mty by 2000, broken down as follows:
I/  This excludes distribution lines within apartment complexes which are left to the
responsibility of building constructors and account for an additional 4,000 km of linepipes.



,'able 2.1: LNG Demand Scenarios
(in million tons of LNG)
1990        1995        2000
KEPCO
Existing Steam Turbines               1.8         0.8         0.6
New Combined-Cycle Plants
Power (Il-Do)                    -          1.2         2.4
CHP Plauts                       -          1.4         1.4
subtotal                          1.8         3.4         4.4
City-Gas Consumer_
Residential                           0.2         0.7         1.1
Commercial                            0.3         0.5         0.7
Industrial                            0.1         0.3         1.0
Subtotal                          0.6         1.5         2.8
(of which Seoul area)           (0.6)        (1.3)       (2.1)
Total               2.4          4.9         7.2
C. Comparison with Alternative Fuels
2.14      Natural gas is to be seen as an alternative to other, more conventional
fuels,  e.g.  some  form  of  petroleum  fuel  (including  LPG)  or  coal.    The
competitive position of natural gas vis-a-vis possible alternatives varies
widely with its end-use; it is also affected considerably by the value
attributed to its relative cleanliness. The 1989 Gas Utilization Study presents
a comparative analysis of energy use for selected applications; this analysis
takes into account differentials in (end-use) equipment efficiency and other
factors (including as the case may be differentials in environmental
impacts).2' The main conclusions of the study, updated as required to reflect
recent price trends, are reviewed briefly in the following paragraphs.   They
underscore the general soundness of the gas utilization strategy pursued by
Korea.
A/   The study used the concept of Netback Value for presentation purposes. The netback value of
natural gas (in a given application) is the break-even price that equates the cost stream faced
by the gas user to that of its most attractive fuel alternative. Netback values therefore
encapsulate not only the energy cost of the alternative fuel, but also differentials in
equiyment efficiency and other technical factors. It normally ignores differentials in
environmental impacts. Netback values can be designed as economic concepts (for the purpose of
economic analysis) or as financial concepts to assess actual market responses.



-9-
Gas Utilization for Electric Power Generation
2.15      The most likely alternative  to KEPCO's proposed gas-fired combined-
cycle plants would be additional conventional coal-fired stations (which would
need to be located at a less favorable location from a system management
standpoint). A comparison of unit generating (economic) costs underscores the
competitiveness of the gas option under a broad range of scenarios.,l  Natural
gas is found to be competitive even under base-load operating conditicns which
most favor the more capital-intensive coal option. The netback value of gas is
estimated to range from $25 to $34 per Gcal depending on the assumed load
factor.   These  figures have  to be  compared to an imported price of LNG of
$16.5/Gcal ($215/ton at an assumed crude oil price of $22/bbl) and to KGC's unit
costs  of  regasification  and  transmission  of  $5.3/Gcal  ($69/ton).S/6/   (See
Annex 2 for details.)
Table 2.2: Unit Generating (economic) Costs
(US cents/kWh)
Coal-Fired                Gas-Fired
load factor:      70%   50%   40%           70%   50%   40%
Capacity Charges a/         4.5   6.1   7.5          2.0   2.8   3.5
Fuel Costs                  2J1   2.1   21           4.0   4.0   4.0
Subtotal                    6.6   8.2   9.6          6.0   6.8   7.4
Netback Value of Gas ($/kcal)                         25     30    34
Assumptions: Coal $40/ton (FOB)
LNG $215/ton (CIF) assuming Crude Oil $22/bbl (FOB)
Cost of gas to KEPCO based on KGC's cost structure (including
charges on existing infrastructure) of $69/ton
a/ including cost of scrubbers for coal-fired plants.
2.16      KEFCO's dispatch policy  is to rely on  the new gas plants  to meet
intermediate load requirements, leaving its coal and nuclear facilities to
4/  Oil-fired steam turbines are another possible alternative. Unit generating costs of a typical
oil-fired plant are similar to (actually somewhat lower than, under current fuel price
conditions) those of a coal-fired plant. However, because of difficulties in securing
satisfactory long-term fuel oil supply arrangements, large-scale oil-firing is not a feasible
alternative for KEPCO at this stage.
5/  In comparison, KGC's average incremental costs (AIC) derived from the costs of the proposed
project are estimated at $2.7/Gcal ($35/ton of LNG) because of economies of scale from the use of
facilities in place.
£/  The edge enjoyed by LNG over coal is seen to be maintained under substantially higher oil price
conditions.At 70S load factor, the break-even oil price is about $27/bbl (assuming the coal price
does not change, which would be unlikely in the long run). At 50X load factor, the break-even
price of oil is $33/bbl.



- 10 -
assume base load duties.21 This is an appropriate strategy which optimizes the
use of imported LNG. At any rate, expanding KEPCO's reliance on natural gas to
cover a substantial share of base load generation would rapidly strain Korea's
ability to contract the necessary LNG quantities.
The Case of CHP Plants
2.17     KEPCO, jointly with the Korea District Heating Corporation (KDHC), is
planning the construction of four CHP plants which are intended to meet the
space heating load of new urban developments outside Seoul, Steam produced by
these units will be distributed to individual consumers by way of pipe networks
(district heating) to be installed by KDHC. While two district heating systems
are already operating in Seoul (based on renovated power plants), the new units
would be based on up-to-date combined-cycle designs which would further optimize
the efficiency of fuel use.
2.18     Because they make use of relatively low-temperature waste heat (most of
which is normally wasted), CHP plants provide for a more efficient use of
primary  fuel  inputs  than  conventional  power  facilities.    While  dispatch
decisions based on steam load requirements somewhat reduces the flexibility of
the plant as a power generating tool, total returns are estimated to be higher
than in a power plant of comparable capacity.   The netback value of gas in a
typical CHP plant is estimated at $31/Gcal (see Annex 2 for details).
City-Gas Markets
2.19     The economic merits of supplying natural gas to residential, commercial
(e.g., office buildings, hotels, etc.) or industrial consumers through (city-
gas) pipeline reticulation vary with each application.   As unit consumption
declines, the incidence of distribution costs becomes increasingly relevant.
The general conclusion of the comparative analysis is that LNG-based city gas is
economically attractive based on narrowly defined economic criteria (i.e.,
without consideration of environmental factors) in selected household,
commercial, and industrial end-uses where:
(a)  competition  is  against  a  high  economic-cost  fuel  (e.g.,  LPG,
manufactured gas, light fuel oil); or
(b) user is willing to pay a premium based on the convenience or aualitv
offered by the use of gas (e.g., residential cooking and many
industrial process applications); or
(c)  gas is used in combination with high efficiency end-use technologies
which are readily available in other markets if not in Korea (e.g.,
cogeneration and combined heating/cooling systems).
7/  The gas requirements of the new plants are based on an assumed 50X load factor.



- 11 -
Industrial Demand
2.20     There  are  at  present  limited  prospects  for  natural  gas  in  the
underboiler fuel market where it competes with coal or heavy fuel oil (HFO).
This is largely because GOK does not impose the use of scrubbers on coal-fired
industrial boilers.   As GOK reviews its policy regarding fuel use in densely
populated areas (including fuel oil specifications), and efficient gas boilers
are more widely marketed, gas penetration of this market segment will expand
significantly. On the other hand, gas already competes most effectively where
its quality or some other characteristic is relevant to its end-use, such as in
a number of direct heat and drying processes where gas enjoys a clear technical
advantage over liquid fuels (because of its clean combustion and better flame
quality).    Attraccive  fuel  switching opportunities  are  also  found  in  the
cogeneration of heat and electricity.
2.21     Gas use by Korean industries currently accounts for about 16% of total
city-gas  sales.    While  a  higher  ratio  would  be  warranted  economically,
industrial sales are hampered by an insufficiently discriminating price
structure (paras 2.31 - 2.32) and lack of up-to-date gas-use technology in
Korea. There is growing recognition in Korea that gas will be able to make
large, and economically rewarding, forays in the industrial fuel market only if
supported by an intensive effort in gas technology development. KGC intends to
focus its future R&D activities in part on the development of appropriate end-
use technology for industrial markets (para 4.24).
Commercial Demand
2.22      Fuel  choice  in the space heating commercial market  is largely a
function of the intensity of energy use.   While gas  is fully competitive
(economically) with HFO in the case of large-scale users, its edge is eliminated
at the lower end of the spectrum. In terms of financial prices, gas is hardly
competitive with HE0,  irrespective of the intensity of energy use.   GOK has
taken the view, however, that the gravity of air pollution in Seoul called for
mandatory fuel switching measures. Accordingly, it has adopted regulations that
preclude the use of liquid (and solid) fuels in commercial buildings (above a
certain size) where gas is available. In view of the urgency of the pollution
question, this approach is deemed appropriate.
2.23     The attractiveness of natural gas to commercial users is considerably
enhanced if it is seen in the context of one of a number of options which
achieve high efficiency by meeting jointly two energy end-uses.  These options
include notably gas-fired absorption technology (meeting both heating and
cooling needs) and internal combustion engine technology (for the joint
production of heat and electricity). These technologies, however, are still not
widely marketed in Korea. KGC recognizes that it has an important role to play
in promoting this market segment and intends to pursue it in the context of its
burgeoning R&D program.



- 12 -
Residential Demand
2.24      Cooking.   Use of pipeline gas for cooking is motivated by the added
convenience it brings to consumers compared to bottled LPG.  The consumers'
"willingness to pay" can in this case be taken as a measure of economic
benefits.   The question is whether consumers'  preference  is such that the
additional costs are warranted economically.   Distribution costs are high,
particularly in the case of single-dwelling consumers, and may not be fully
covered by the existing tariff (para 2.31). Since an environmentally acceptable
alternative exists in the form of LPG, there is little justification for
government support to this use of gas through preferential tariff treatrnent.
2.25      Space Heating.   Korean households rely on a number of space hieating
options ranging from several types of anthracite-burning (yon-tan) facilities
(in traditional single-family dwellings) to modern oil ol ,as-fired boilers (in
individual houses or for central heating in apartment buildings).   As for the
commercial market, gas has difficulties competing with HFO in the central
heating market, but the coverage of COK's fuel use directives has been expanded
to include apartment buildings.   In view o-' the small difference in economic
costs (about 10% for new buildings), this approach appears reasonable.
D. Environmental Impacts of Natural Gas
2.26     While gas combustion is not pollution free, it is inherently cleaner
than that of other fossil fuels: natural gas is free of most pollutants present
in liquid and solid fuels, generates less carbon dioxide (CO2), and can,
therefore, play a major role in pollution control strategies aimed at either
local or global concerns.
The Role of Natural Gas in Reducing Air Pollution in Korea
2.27     A comparison of Seoul with cities in other industrial countries shows
that the level of air pollution is high, with S02 and total suspended
particulates (TSP) being the most serious pollutants. Concentrations of CO are
also high in residential areas where anthracite briquettes continue to be used.
SO2 emissions were significantly reduced by introducing regulations in 1981
which lowered the sulphur content of heavy fuel oil. The average annual level
of SO2 over Seoul dropped from 220ug/m3 in 1980 to about 13Oug/m3 in 1982, but it
has stayed at around that level ever since, still exceeding the prescribed air
quality standard of llOug/m3.  Winter seasons see much higher average monthly
levels  of  around  300ug/m3.    TSP  emissions  also  remain  high.    Average
concentrations over Seoul were about 200ug/m3 in 1985, reducing to about 150ug/m3
in 1989, but still are greater than the targeted prescribed level of lOOug/m3.
2.28      From an end-use combustion perspectivc, natural gas is considerably
cleaner than most of the fuels it displaces.   In particular, emissions of SO2
(which returns tc the earth as part of "acid rain") and of particulates are
virtually eliminated. The fuels displaced by natural gas include several types
of oil products, coal and LPG. All except LPG generate substantial levels of S02



- 13 -
and TSP. A computation of the levels of pollutant emissions they would generate
yields a rough estimate of the difference in the pollution loading of the
atmosphere brought about by LNG. This comparison indicates that the anticipated
use of 5 mty of LNG by 1995 will by then eliminate the production, every year,
of about 90 thousand tons of SOzQ/ (an amount equivalent to about 10; of the
current loading of this pollutant).
Natural Gas and the Greenhouse Effect
2.29     While the rate of possible climate warming due to the trapping of solar
energy remains the subject of some debate among scientists, the increased
concentration of C02 in the atmosphere (due in part to fuel combustion and to
deforestation) is now widely acknowledged as a serious source of environmental
concern. While use of natural gas does not eliminate C02 emissions, it reduces
them significantly and thus offers a highly cost-effective response to the
greenhouse challenge: in boilers, natural gas emits roughly one-half as much C02
per unit of energy output as coal and 30% less than oil1/.  If gas is used in a
combined-cycle power plant, it emits only about 40% as much C02 as a coal-fired
plant (because of the difference in thermal efficiency). One should also note
that emissions of methane (another greenhouse gas) from the gas industry are
negligible in terms of their contribution to the worldwide greenhouse effect.
2.30     Korea's LNG import program provides an important contribution to the
nascent efforts worldwide at containing C02 emissions. Each ton of LNG used in
Korea (instead of a mix of coal and oil) is estimated to reduce such emissions
by about 3 tons.   The projected use of 7.2 mty of LNG by the year 2000 can
therefore be seen as potentially eliminating 5-10% of Korea's expected C02
emissions in that year.
E. Government Policies
2.31     GOK is involved in the gas sector in several ways: through its control
of KGC, by mandating the use of gas under certain circumstances, and by setting
gas prices. Inasmuch as oil prices (with which gas has to compete) are still
controlled by Government, and as the CGCs are at times placed in a monopolistic
position,  some form of tariff control  is inevitable.   GOK sets both the
wholesale prices charged by KGC to KEPCO and the CGCs, and the retail prices
charged by the CGCs to individual consumers. Wholesale prices are based on the
import price of LNG and an agreed margin designed to cover KGC's costs.   In
turn, retail prices are set so as to provide sufficient returns to the CGCs
while taking into account the competitive position of gas vis-a-vis alternative
fuels. The present price structure is as follows:
I/  This is excluding any impact from indirect coal substitution in the power sector, since coal-
fired units would be equipped with scrubbers which are capable of eliminating up to 95S of SO,
emissions from coal burning.
9/  Natural gas combustion produces less CO, than that of coal or oil because of the lower
carbon/hydrogen ratio in methane.



- 14 -
Table 2.3:  Natural Gas Prices -/
Won/mr3      S/Ccal
Wholesale Prices
KEPCO (average for 1990)
CGCs                            145          19.8
Retail Prices
Residential Cooking             285          38.8
Heating           193-211     26.3-28.7
Commercial                    211-285      28.8-38.8
Industrial                    186-204      25.3-27.8
p/ since May 1, 1990 (except for price to KEPCO).
2.32     The current retail price structure shows little differentiation across
loads. This is partly compensated by: (a) the large share of distribution costs
being covered directly by consumers; and (b) the rebates offered by the CGCs on
industrial sales.   The pricing arrangements are therefore not inappropriate,
except for charges to individual dwellers, which are probably below costs.
2.33     GOK is correctly targetting the space heating loads of apartment and
commercial buildings as priority market segments for natural gas in view of its
impact on SO2 and particulate emissions.   Because the average cost of gas
delivered to a typical apartment or commercial building in Seoul is
significantly higher (in financial terms) than that of the HFO it displaces, GOK
has chosen to pursue its objective through fuel use directives. This is deemed
appropriate given the urgency of the pollution situation in the Seoul a-ea and
the validity of the economic argument for fuel switching.
2.34     One of GOK's objectives in promoting the introduction of LNG in Korea
was to reduce the incidence of anthracite burning which is a major source of air
pollution in urban areas. Recent statistics of residential fuel use indicate a
distinct decline in anthracite consumption during the last few years, reflecting
a general trend from traditional space heating modes toward more modern ones.
Yet, little direct substitution of anthracite by natural gas appears to have
taken place, largely because kerosene or diesel oil provide a generally cheaper
alternative  than gas.    KGC  intends  to promote  the  introduction of high-
efficiency gas heating appliances as a way of compensating for the prevailing
price differential.
2.35     The GOK's plan to shift away from firewood, coal and HFO towards low
sulfur fuel oil and natural gas, will have a significant impact on pollutant
emissions to the atmosphere.   Based on KEEI's energy balance forecast,  the
calculations indicate 80% reductior. in the loadings of TSP and CO in the



- 15
residential and commercial sector by 2010, and a 25% reduction in SO2 emissions
across all sectors. In addition, the CO2 emission is estimated to be reduced by
30 million tons per year by 2010, or 6% of the total expected emissions of C02 by
that year.
F. The Supply of LNG
2.36      KGC is taking steps to strengthen its access to LNG supplies.  Proposed
arrangements include long-term (i.e., 20 years), short-term (3-5 years) and spot
purchases, which will provide KGC with the necessary flexibility to adjust to
changing market conditions.   Details of expected ING supplies are in Annex 1.
KGC proposes to expand its relationship with Indonesia while identifying other
potential gas sources. It is already purchasing additional gas quantities from
Pertamina on a spot basis and has issued a letter of intent to that company
indicating its intention to enter into a short-term contract covering the 1992-
94 period and a new long-term contract starting in 1994. KGC's next additional
supplier is expected to be Malaysia with which KGC considers entering into a
combination  of  short-term  and  long-term  contracts.         In  a  longer-term
perspective, other potential sources of LNG include Alaska, Australia, Qatar and
the USSR.
2.37      The existing contract with Pertamina is set on a CIF basis; similar
arrangements are to be adopted for any additional gas purchases from Indonesia.
For purchases from other suppliers, however, KGC intends to contract LNG on an
FOB basis. This change in strategy is in keeping with GOK's policy of promoting
the entry of Korea's shipyard industry into the manufacturing of LNG tankers.
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.38     The main rationale for continued Bank lending to Korea is GOK's stated
preference for a continuation in Bank assistance in sector analysis and policy
foirml1ation, particularly in those sectors where the Bank is able to bring the
benefit of broader experiences. The Bank is in a position to provide this type
of assistance with a relatively modest level of lending.   In response to the
country's requirements, the Bank focusses its operational work on issues of
equity and social services, technology transfer, institutional development and
environmental protection. The proposed project and the Bank's participation in
the study which led to its formulation are in line with this general strategy.
The Bank's involvement in project preparation has already resulted in a stronger
interface between gas and electricity u-tilities and a streamlining of public
policies affecting gas utilization patterns, in particular for power generation
and space heating.
2.39     The proposed project is the first LNG-based project supported by the
Bank. It reflects the Bank's growing appreciation for the economic and envi-
ronmental merits of natural gas as an energy source. Its particular signifi-
cance lies in that it deals with a country whose energy endowment does not



- 16 -
include natural gas and whose geographic location leaves no alternative but to
import gas as LNG by marine tanker.  While the economic feasibility of an LNG
import scheme are largely a function of country-specific factors, Bank
association with this unique project will provide valuable opportunities to gain
experience that could be relevant to other developing countries.
3. THE PROJECT
A. KGC's Investment Program
3.1      KGC has developed a 10-year investment program covering the 1991-2000
period.   This program is intended to accommodate an anticipated threefold
increase in LNG imports and expand the geographical coverage of the gas delivery
system. The proposed investments include: (a) increase in terminal capacity;
(b) expansion of the existing pipeline system serving the Seoul metropolitan
area; and (c) construction of a national gas grid to supply the main regions of
Korea.  Total investment is estiwi 'd at $2.25 billion as detailed in para. 5.13
and Annex 3.
Terminals
3.2      The existing Pyong Taek terminal has a nominal capacity of 2 mty and
can at little extra cost handle a throughput of up to 3 mty. Further extensions
will involve substantial expenses because of the need to install additional UIG
storago tanks.   At any rate, the existing site can not accommodate capacity
expansions beyond 5-5.5 mty because of limited jetty capacity and lack of space
for more than a total of six tanks.  Beyond 5 mty, a new terminal needs to be
developed. Because of the magnitude of the gas requirements of the proposed Il-
Do power plant (3-4 mty of LNG at full development), KGC intends to construct a
new terminal at Incheon near the new plant (and the main Seoul market), which is
logical. Overall, KGC's strategy is first to expand the Pyong Taek terminal to
bring it to maximum capacity, which is the least-cost solution because of the
economies of scale offered by the existing facilities; and, in pal2allel, to
start construction of a new terminal at Incheon, which will take about seven
years. LNG throughput capacity is expected to grow as follows:
Table 3.1: LNG Terminal CaRacity Additions (raty)
1990    1995    2000
Pyong Taek Terminal              3.0     5.0      5.0
Incheon Terminal                  -       -       3.0
Total                        3.0     5.0      8.0



- 17 -
Transmission Pipelines
3.3      KGC's pipeline investment program comprises (a) construction of new
lines in the Seoul/Incheon area to evacuate additional quantities from Pyong
Taek and meet growing demand in the Kyongin region; and (b) the phased
construction of a national gas grid which would successively reach the cities of
Tae Jon (1993), Pusan/Ulsan (1997) and Kwangju (1998). The existing system was
initially designed to meet the requirements of the CGCs in the Seoul area whose
demand was expected to progressively absorb the 2 mty provided under the
existing import contract.   This scenario essentially remains as originally
planied, except that a distinct demand from KEPCO has now been superimposed over
the CCC demand,  calling  for construction of new lines  to supply  CHPs  in
satellite towns around Seoul, and looping of existing lines to expand the
overall capacity of the system.
3.4      Early construction of a first leg of a national gas grid to the central
city of Tae Jon is justified in view of the relatively short distance from Pyong
Taek and the size of '-he city-gas market there.   The rationale for further
trunkline segments (towards the southern regions of Yongnam and Honam), however,
would need to be strengthened before actual construction starts. In particular,
a sufficient demand from existing or new power stations needs to be confirmed
ex-ante to justify the massive investment required for a nationwide trunkline
system.
3.5      The Bank and KGC agreed during the negotiati n that KGC furnishes to
the Bank for comments its updated annual investment 6!rogram before starting
construction work on any major additional investment beyond those works covered
under the proposed project.
B. Project Objectives
3.6      The project aims to: (a) provide the additional infrastructure required
to facilitate the import and utilization of 5 mty of LNG by 1995, thereby
improving the efficiency of energy use in Korea and mitigating its impact on air
quality in urban a.eas; and (b) strengthen K^C's operaticonal performance and
management, particularly in the area of financial management.
C. Project Description
3.7      The pro4ect consists of the following components: (a) extension of the
Pyong Taek LNG receiving terminal; (b) construction of additional pipeline
facilities; and (c) utilization of consultants' services for the engineering of
terminal extension and pipeline expansion.   Detailed descriptions of the new
facilities appear in Annex 4 and pipeline routing is shown on the attached map
(IBRD 22793).
3.8      Pyong Taek Terminal Expansion.  Terminal extension will be accomplishe&e
in two phases: Phase I, scheduled for completion by end-1993, will add one



- 18 -
100,000 m3 capacity tank and anLillary equipment to raise LNG throughput from
three to four mty; and Phase 1I, scheduled for completion by end-1994, will add
another 100,000 m3 capacity tank and ancillaries, still to be specified by basic
design studies currently in progress, to raise throughput from four to five mty.
3.9      Tile pipeline CoMponent is designed to increase the capacity of KGC's
natural gas delivery system in line with the increased throughput capacity of
the terminal. Included are:
(a) expansion of the Seoul metropolitan pipeline system to meet
increasing demand from the CGCs and supply KEPCO's new C'iP plants
serving new township developments outside Seoul; and
(b) construction of a trunkline from Pyong Taek to Tae Jon to support
gas market developments in the Central Region.
D. Project Costs and Financing Plan
3.10     The total cost of the project is estimated at $678 million including
physical and price contingencies, and taxes and customs duties on imported
materials and equipment (amounting to $10.3 million). The proposed loan of $100
million represents 14% of total project cost and 82% of estimated foreign
exchange expenditures.
3.11     The estimated project costs are summarized in Table 3.2.  A detailed
cost estimate and an estimated cost breakdown of project expenditures year by
year appear in Annexes 5 and 6, respectively.   Costs are based on actual
recently-awarded contract prices, and on prices incurred for the original
terminal and pipeline facilities (adjusted for inflation).



- 19 -
TABLE 3.2
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Won billion                US$ million       Foreign Cost as
Item                           local  Foreign     Total    Local  Foreign     Total    O/% of total
A. Pvona Taek LNG Terminal Extenslon
Al1 Phase I
Goods                          18.6     27.1     45.6     26.5      38.7     65.2         59.4
Construction                   31.0      0.0     31.0     44.3       0.0     44.3          0.0
Services                        8.2      3.9     12.1      11.7      5.6     17.3         32.4
Base Cost (Phase )              57.8     -1.0      88.8       .      44.3    126.8           _
A.2 Phase tl
Goods                          11.7     20.1     31.8      16.7     28.7     45.4         63.2
Construrtion                   27.2      0.0     27.2      38.8      0.0     38.8          0.0
Services                       8.1       4.1     12.1      11.5      5.8     17.3         33.5
Base Cost (Phase 11)            46.9     24.2      71.1     67.0     34.5    101.5          34.0
B. Pipellne System Expansion
B.1 Seoul Metropolitan System
Land Acqulsitlon               23.2      0.0     23.2     33.2       0.0     33.2          0.0
Goods                          35.8      2.5     38.3     51.2       3.5     54.7          6.4
Construction                   47.9      6.1     54.0     68.4       8.7     77.1          11.3
Services                        6.4      0.1      6.4      9.1       0.1      9.2           1.1
BaseCost(SeoulSystem)          113.3      8.6    121.9    161.9      12.3    174.2           7.1
B.2 Central Re-lon Trunkilne
Land Acqulsitlon               12.5      0.0     12.5      17.9      0.0     17.9          0.0
Goods                          34.1      1.4     35.5     48.7       2.0     50.7          3.9
Construjction                  43.8      6.2     49.9     62.5       8.8     71.3          12.3
Services                        5.8      0.1      5.9      8.3       0.1      8.4          1.2
Base Cost (Trunkline)           96.2      7.6    103.8    137.4      10.9    148.3           7.3
Duties and Taxes                 7.2      0.0       7.2     10.3      0.0      10.3          0.0
Total Base Cost (Prolect)      321.4     71.4    392.8    4591      102 0    561.1          18.2
Contingencles
Physical                       31.5      6.8     38.3     45.0       9.7     54.7          17.7
Price                          36.9      6.7     43.6     52.7       9.6     62.3         15.4
Total Prolect Cost             389.8     84.9    474.7    556.8    121.3    678.1           17.9
Interest During Construction    16 8     21.0      37.8     24.0     30.0      54.0         55.6
Total Financing Requirement    406.6    105.9    512.5    580.8    151.3    732.1           20.7



- 20 -
3.12     Base  cost  estimates  are  expressed  in mid-1990  prices.    Physical
contingencies are about 5% of the base cost for the Phase I terminal expansion
component; 15% for Phase II; and 10% of all pipeline costs. Price contingencies
are based on annual inflation rates of 5% and 3.6% p.a. for local and foreign
costs,  respectively.   Taxes and customs duties  are about  14% of  imported
material and equipment costs.
3.13      The project financing plan summarized in Table 3.3 below was reviewed
and agreed with the Government during the negotiation.
Table 3.3 Project Financing Plan
($ million)
Source                 Local   Foreign   Total        %
Internal Cash Generation    100          -      100        14
Capital Increase             250         -       250       34
IBRD                            -      100      100        14
Others                       231        51       282       39
Total Financing Reguired    581        151       732      100
(including IDC)           (24)      (30)     (54)       (7)
3.14     Total financing required, including interest during construction (IDC)
of $54 million, would amount to $732 million.   The proposed Bank loan would
amount to $100 million. It would be made to GOK which will onlend its proceeds
to KGC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreemen. satisfactory to the Bank. The signing
of the subsidiary Loan Agreement is a co:dition of loan effectiveness. The Bank
loan proceeds would be onlent to KGC on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan.  KGC would bear the foreige e:change and interest rate risks.  The
Bank loan would be for a period of 15 y*-fs including five years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.   The loan would finance 82% of the
estimated foreign exchange expenditu,-e- a-id be the equivalent of 14% of total
required financing.  The remaining amouit will be financed from internal cash
generation, equity injections and other borrowings. GOK will contribute 51% of
future  capital  increases;  KEPCO,  39%;  xnd  local  governments,  10%.    The
Government has advised that if the resourcas of the Petroleum Business Fund will
be limited for the next several years, t-a indicated financing gap will be
filled from other sources, essentially loca:. commercial borrowings. During the
negotiation. the Government renewed its c.mmitment to make the necessary
resources available to KGC to implement the Droject.
E. Project Implementation and Schedule
3.15     The responsibility for implementing both components of the project
(terminal  and pipelines)  rests with KGC.   KGC  successfully Lompleted  the
original terminal and pipeline facilities, and can be expected to be equally
effective in implementing the proposed additions. Annexes i, 8 and 9 show the
implementation schedules. The Bank reviewed KGC's implementation plan for each
component (below) and found them to be satisfactory.



- 21 -
Pyong Taek Terminal Expansion
3.16     For  Phase  I of  the  terminal  expansion  (from  3 to 4 mty),  the
engineering, procurement services, supervision of construction, and assistance
in commissioning of the facilities will be provided by Daewoo Engineering of
Korea.   The construction work will be carried out by Han Yang of Korea.
Sofregaz of France will provide consulting services, primarily for cryogenic
technology. Technigaz of France, the licensor for the LNG storage tanks, will
be responsible for procurement, inspection, and installation supervision of
these storage facilities. KGSC will oversee safety aspects, and inspection will
be assigned to a third party inspection group. For Phase II (from 4 to 5 mty),
while a final implementation decision has not yet been made, it is expected that
KGC will put in place arrangement identical to those used for implementation of
Phase I.
Pipelines
3.17       The  engineering,  supervision  of  construction,  and  the  project
management assistance for Seoul Metropolitan and Mid-Zone Pipeline System will
be carried out by Dougah and Daelim engineering companies, respectively.  The
construction work for each pipeline system is divided into three segments, each
under a different contract. Five of the contracts have already been awarded and
the sixth one is in the process of being finalized.   KGSC and an independent
third party will be responsible for the safety aspects and inspection
requirements, respectively.
3.18     Land is required for the pipelines, but these are almost entirely
routed along existing roadways.   Based on past experience, KGC foresees no
difficulty in maintaining its land acquisition schedule.   About 20% of the
estimated 230,000 sq m of the land required for pipeline valve stations has
already been acquired, and no problem is anticipated in acquiring the rest.
F. Environmental Considerations
3.19     The project will have significant environmental benefits.  As discussed
in Chapter 2, using natural gas as a fuel is relatively benign to the
environment.  This is largely because natural gas combustion gases contains no
measurable quantities of S02 which, as typified by "acid rain", is a particularly
harmful atmospheric pollutant.  Substituting natural gas for high S02 emitting
fuels such as coal and heavy fuel oils will have significant beneficial effects
on Korea's urban and industrial centers where S02 emissions are currently a
serious problem.   There will be some minor disturbances to the environment
during construction, notably the transmission pipelines; however, these will be
temporary and of short duration.   A detailed description of the Pyong Taek
termir.al, its operation and environmental aspects is detailed in Annex 11 and
summarized below.



- 22 -
3.20     The LNG terminal is located on the tip of a one-km wide peninsula on a
remote 615,000 sq m land site. The site, which has a fenced-off perimeter and
is patrolled by security guards, is adjacent to and operationally integrated
with a gas-fired power plant operated by KEPCO. The proposed expansion project
will take place entirely within the original plant perimetec and wi]l not entail
any additional land development.
3.21     The environmental assessment (EA) of the original terminal investment
(1981) dealt with expected future expansions of the terminal.   Thie Bank has
reviewed thioi EA and has concluded that no new issues will emerge from the
construction of the new facilities.   A summary of its conclusions has been
submitted to the Board of Directors.
3.22     The operational record of the Pyong Taek terminal during its four years
of operations has been very good.   The high level of safety built into the
design of the existing facilities will be maintained in the design of the new
construction. The new LNG tanks and associated systems will be constructed to
similar specifications and use the same expert technical consultancy. The Pyong
Taek LNG terminal has been in operation for four years. A review by Bank staff
of operational practices underscored the high safety standards observed both in
ship movements, loading/unloading and plant operations. The existing terminal
was built to high standards and incorporated safety features equal to the best
found in the LNG industry. These same standards will be applied to the proposed
extension. KGSC conducts regular safety audits for KGC. Agreement was reached
with_ KGC during the negotiation. regarding the timing of these audits and the
Bank's access to the results. At least three audits would need to be conducted
during  project  imDlementation:  (a)  prior  to  construction:   (b)  during
construction: and (c) prior to start-up.
3.23     The main operational risk is associated with the transfer of LNG from
ship to shore. Calculations show that a safety zone covering an area distanced
at least 500 m from the transfer point must be provided in the layout of an LNG
terminal built to the standards applied to the Pyong Taek terminal: this
requirement is substantially exceeded at the Pyong Taek site where the point of
LNG transfer is 600 m from the shore, 1.3 km from the landside perimeter with
the power station, and 2 km from the nearest shoreline on the sea side.  The
existing LNG unloading berth and unloading facilities are adequate to handle the
increased shipments needed to supply the proposed terminal additions.
3.24      Shipping operations have been discussed in terms of the increased
frequency in LNG shipments and the interaction with other activities in Asan
Bay.  Except for the occasional oil delivery to the KEPCO power plant the LNG
ships are the only large ships to use the Bay.  The additional supply of LNG
will mean an increase in shipments from 46 in 1990 to about 80 in 1995. This is
within the capacity of the unloading facilities at the terminal and should pose
no problem to site operations or to the escort of ships in the approaches. The
operations in Asan Bay are supervised by the local office of the Incheon Harbor
Authorities.
3.25     A problem of compensation for lost fishing rights was resolved in a
settlement between the fishermen's union and the GOK in January 1989. A few



- 23 -
additional claims from the families of individual fishermen have been lodged
with local authorities and are being processed through the local courts.
3.26     As  to  the  pipelaying  activities  and  operation  of  the  new  gas
transmission pipelines, their environmental impact is covered by existing codes
of practice  supported by Korean law.   Virtually all the additional  Seoul
Metropolitan lines and 90% of the mid-zone trunk line will be laid (underground)
alongside existing roads which will minimize interference with other land use.
G. Procurement and Disbursements
3.27     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4 below.
Table 3.4: Summarv of Procurement Arrangements
($ million)
Procurement Method          Total
Project Element                      ICB     LCB   Others/_ N.A.        Cost
.NG Terminal Extension
Goods                                58               75b/               133
(44)              (9)               (53)
Taxes & Duties on Imported Goods                                 7        7
Construction                           -       -      101         -      101
Engineering & Project Management       -       -       37         -       37
(10)              (10)
Consultancy and T.A.                   -       -        5         -        5
(4)               (4)
PiDelines
Land Acquisition                       -       -        -        63       63
Goods                                 27     138                         165
(20)                                (20)
Taxes & Duties on Imported Goods                                  5        5
Pipe  'ing                              -     64        -         -       64
(10)                        (10)
Buildings & Structures                  -     77        -         -       77
Engineering & T.A.                             -       21                 21
(3                 (3)
85     279     239         75     678
Total                             (64)    (10)    (26)               (100)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed
by the Bank.
A/ Includes direct contracting and international shopping.
k/ Proprietary items $72; international shopping $3.0.



- 24 -
3.28      Goods financed by the Bank  (Refer to Annex 4 for list of major
equipment) will generally be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB). Local manufacturers competing in ICB will be given the Bank's standard
domestic price preference of 15% for goods. The following other non-ICB methods
will be allowed for procuring Bank financed goods:
(a)   direct procurement of proprietary material and equipment required for
the construction of the LNG storage and handling facilities in line
with existing technology, licensing agreements and safety, and
operational guarantee consideration (total estimated cost to be
financed by the Bank: $6.0 million), subject to the Bank's prior
approval; and
(b)   international shopping for off-the-shelf goods not locally available
on condition that at least three quotations have been obtained from
three different countries for each purchase; that the cost of each
item does not exceed $300,000; and that the aggregate amount does not
exceed $3.0 million.
3.29      Other goods not financed by the Bank consisting primarily of pipeline
materials, will be procured under local competitive bidding.   These goods are
available locally, and there is adequate competition.
3.30      Civil  works  will  be  procured  through  local  competitive  bidding
satisfactory  to the Bank.   There  is a large number  of experienced local
contractors to ensure adequate compe ttion, but foreign firms will not be
precluded from the bidding. The Bank will only finance one civil works contract
under the project, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$14.5 million.   All
other contracts will be financed by KGC.
3.31      Arrangements for consulting and engineering services financed by the
Bank would be as follows:
(a)   Daewoo Engineering  (Korean) has been retained to provide  design,
engineering and other implementation services required for the Pyong
Taek terminal expansion.   The firm provided these services for the
original terminal project, and the decision to continue its services
for the terminal expansion is technically and financially sound.
Daewoo has gained valuable experience in cryogenic processes from the
previous terminal project, and its selection saves time and money
which would not be readily offset by a fresh competitive selection.
Also of importance, the technology licensor would have to approve the
selection if any engineering consultant other than Daewoo were to be
chosen.
(b)   Sofregaz (French) provided consulting services for the original Pyong
Taek Terminal LNG storage and vaporization facilities; it has been
retained to continue these services for the terminal expansion.   A
fresh competitive selection would not be justified considering that
(i) the fact that Sofregaz has already been approved by the technology
licensor (Technigaz) as a precondition of the licensor's granting a
performance guarantee and (ii) Sofregaz has gained unique knowledge
and experience from its previous work on these facilities.



- 25 -
(c)  The pipeline engineering consultants, Dongah Engineering (Korea) and
Daelim Engineering (Korea), have been selected after a very rigorous
selection process. Five local firms had been short-listed for each of
the two contracts on the basis of their technical capability and were
then asked to compete on a price-basis only. The procedure was widely
advertised in Korea and organized in very professional manner.  The
Korean pipeline engineering industry has reached an advanced state of
development, having already won several international contracts, some
of them under Bank-financed projects.   The tasks involved in the
pipeline component of the project are of a general routine nature, and
necessitate a familiarity with local factors which strongly favor
choosing a local firm (procedures for accessing public land,
understanding of local regulations on land use, relationship with
local construction companies, etc).  Therefore the Bank is satisfied
with these arrangements.
3.32      It is estimated that Bank financing will cover approximately 30 bid
packages. Prior Bank review of all procurement documents will be required for
packages estimated to cost more than $1.0 million; packages costing less will be
subject to the Bank's review after contract award.  Approximately 90% of the
Bank loan amount would be subject to prior Bank review. Retroactive financing
eauivalent to 10% of the proRosed loan is recommended for expenses incurred
after March 31=  1991.  mostly for Rartial payments of eguiRment with long
delivery periods for cryogenic services. already ordered through advanced
contracting approved by the Bank.
Disbursements
3.33      Bank funds will finance: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of equipment and materials; (ii) 90% of the
costs of pipelaying contracts; and (iii) 100% of the costs of engineering and
consulting services for the Pyong Taek extension and gas transmission pipelines.
3.34      Reimbursement of expenditures relating to contracts for goods valued
at less than US$1 million equivalent would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures (SOEs).  Documentation supporting SOEs would not be submitted to
the Bank but would be retained by KGC and made available for review by Bank
supervision missions. To facilitate project disbursements, a Special Account in
a fully convertible currency will be established in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Authorized Allocation to the Special
Account is US$7 million, representing estimated requirements of Bank funding for
an average four month period.   Replenishment of the Special Account would be
made quarterly or whenever the Account is drawn down by about 50% of the initial
deposit. The standard procedure for auditing SOEs will apply.
3.35      The scheduled disbursements are marginally faster than the standard
profiles for the region and the subsector, reflecting the advanced stage of
project preparation. The completion of the physical work is currently scheduled
for mid-1995.  However, taking into account the unforeseen delays (e.g., land
acquisition, unexpected problems during testing and commissioning), the
completion date could be December 31, 1996. On this basis, the closing date for
the loan is set for June 30, 1997.  Phasing of the estimated disbursements of
the proposed Bank loan is shown in detail in Annex 10.



- 26 -
H. Monio.oring, Reporting and Supervision
3.36      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in
terms of physical execution and financial reporting have been agreed with KGC.
KGC will issue quarterly progress reports to keep the Bank apprised of physical
progress of the works. In addition, KGC will issue the required semi-annual and
annual financial and auditor reports,  as defined  in para.  4.19,   Special
attention will be given to monitoring the results of the safety audits which KGC
has agreed to carry out. Parts I and III of the Project Completion Report (PCR)
will be drafted by the Bank not later than six months after closing of the Bank
loan. KGC will be requested to review Parts I and III and prepare Part II of
the PCR within three months thereafter.
3.37      Project supervision will principally focus on: (a) construction and
start-up of the LNG storage and vaporization facilities; (b) construction of the
pipeline component; and (c) compliance with various covenants of the Loan and
Project Agreements, particularly the financial covenants, given the large
investment required for the project. Supervision will require expertise in the
engineering and construction of LNG facilities and gas pipelines, related
environmental issues, financial analysis, and in the LNG market and price. It
is estimated that supervision will average out to about two missions annually
over a period of 3.5 years.   The staff input required is estimated to be
approximately 5 staff weeks each, for an LNG expert, a pipeline engineer and a
financial analyst.
4. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Background
4.1       As noted in Chapter 2, LNG first became of interest to Korea after the
two oil shocks  in the 1970s.   KEPCO was given the  initial assignment of
assessing the merits of, and eventually negotiating, a contract with Indonesia.
Subsequently, the decision was taken to establish KGC as a separate entity to
assume responsibility for implementing the contract with Pertamina.
4.2       KG-C was incorporated under the Korea Gas Corporation Act (No. 3639) of
December 31, 1982, and the associated Enforcement Decree (Presidential Decree
No. 11134) of May 29, 1983. The Articles of Incorporation became effective on
the day of its incorporation in August 1983. KGC then took over all the assets
and liabilities held by KEPCO in relation to the import of LNG and the
construction of gas infrastructure, including the receiving terminal and supply
network. KGC also assumed all rights and obligations under all LNG-related
contracts entered into before the date of incorporation.
4.3       In  seven  years  of  operation,  KGC  has  been  able  to  achieve  a
respectable level of expertise and efficiency. Staff was recruited and trained
and a competent management team has been assembled.   While some areas of
weakness remain, KGC benefits today from a strong institutional base on which to



- 27 -
build as it looks to the challenge of an ambitious investment program and
increasingly complex operations.
B. Organization
4.4       The capital of KGC has been set up at W200 billion ($286 million),
consisting of 20 million shares, each having a par value of W10,000, of which
W85.09 billion had been paid up as of December 31, 1990.  Under the proposed
revision of the Korea Gas Corporation Act, the authorized capital would be
increased to W700 billion. The structure of ownership is presently as follows:
Table 4.1: KGC Ownership Structure (as of Dec. 31. 1990)
Korean Government              57%
KEPCO                          30%
Seoul Metropolitan Govt.       12%
Others                          1%
Total                  100%
4.5       KGC management is vested in its Board of Directors which decides on
all important matters related to business operations. The Board consists of the
Chairman of the Board, President of KGC, and five other directors. The Chairman
of the Board and the President of KGC are appointed and subject to dismissal, by
the President of Korea at the recommendation of the MOER.   The five other
directors are appointed by the MOER at the request of the Chairman of the Board
of KGC. As chief executive officer, the President of KGC represents KGC on the
Board and manages day-to-day business affairs. Board meetings are also attended
by KGC's Standing Auditor, who is appointed by the President of Korea at the
recommendation of MOER after consultation with the Minister of Finance.   The
Standing Auditor is not a member of the Board but may at his own initiative
express his opinions at any of the Board meetings.   The terms of office are
three years for all Board members and two years for the Auditor.
4.6       KGC's organization appears in the attached Chart.   The organization
structure is simple and appears to work well. Business and support activities
are divided into five divisions each headed by a vice-president who reports to
the Executive Vice-President, himself being responsible, to the President.
Division responsibilities are broken down into departments headed by general
managers under the respective divisional vice-president. The President's Office
includes a Secretarial Department and a Public Information Department.
C. Staffing and Training
4.'       In 1990 KGC employed 836 persons, 292 at various managerial levels and
544 consisting of engineers, technicians and clerical and other skilled workers.
Continued growth in LNG operations will require a steady increase in KGC's
employment roster. KGC estimates that it will have to add 50% to its number of
employees by 1994.   This will amount to a total of about 1,300 employees,
roughly in the same ratio of skills and specialization as in 1990.



- 28 -
4.8       There is a strong historical link between KGC and KEPCO and this has
been the source for much of the good management experience and emphasis on staff
training within KGC. On the technical side, overseas training has been arranged
principally with Gaz de France, but also with gas utilities in Japan and the
USA, and standard of expertise is now high. Training is now conducted at KGC's
own R&D and Training Center at Asan City.   There are currently six full-time
instructors at the Center, with training programs covering computing, language
training, commerce, operations and management development. Some of the courses
and facilities are still under development.  Ultimately, KGC intends to expand
access of its training center to CGC personnel as well.
D. Operations and Management
4.9       Except for the very low temperatures which have to be contended with,
the operations of the Pyong Taek LNG terminal are relatively simple. Basically,
the terminal receives shipments of natural gas which has been liquefied by
reducing its temperature to about minus 160°c.   The LNG is stored (in liquid
form) in special storage tanks and regasified (vaporized) before being sent out
to KGC's customers through pipelines.  Since the start of operations in 1986,
the terminal has received, vaporized and sent out 8.0 million tons of LNG; the
highest annual throughput so far has been 2.4 million tons in 1990.   The
terminal operators and supervisors are well trained and efficient.   KGC's
operating record is highly commenaable: there has been no LNG spillage since the
start of operations and only one lost-time accident in over two million man-
hours of operations (Annex 11).
4.10      The natural gas transmission system, which consists of a network of
pipelines for delivering the gas to KGC's customers, is described in Annex 12.
The system is efficiently operated and maintained by a well-trained staff.
Unaccounted for gas is about 1.3% which is within acceptable limits.  Cathodic
production reports indicate that the pipelines are fully protected against
corrosion.
4.11      Operational responsibilities are divided between five departments: (i)
Pyong Taek Terminal Operations; (ii) Operation and Maintenance Department of the
transmission system; (iii) the Operation Control Department for gas dispatch,
control and planning; (iv) the Technical Development Department for technical
support including the terminal; and (v) the R&D Center for research and
development and training.   Each department is headed by a general manager who
reports to the Vice-President, Operations.
E. Financial Control and Auditing
4.12      KGC's financial systems and auditing functions are manned by competent
and well motivated staff and are of generally good quality.   The general
organization of financial functions could be streamlined, however.   Also, in
view of the expected growth in KGC's activities, the corporation would stand to
benefit greatly from strengthening its financial expertise at the senior
management level through the appointment of a Chief Financial Executive.   An
Action Plan to address these issues is proposed (para 4.17).



- 29 -
Accounting and Management Information Systems
4.13      KGC keeps its accounts in accordance with the provisions of the Act on
Budget and Accounting of Government-Organizations (a statutory requirement) and
with the Korean principles of accounting, which are in general similar to
internationally accepted accounting standards. KGC has built up its accounting
staff over the years and is able to deal with all accounting matters in a timely
manner.
4.14      KGC has developed a basic and economical Management Information System
(MIS) within the constraints of fairly limited resources.   The MIS support,
which was assembled between 1985 and 1988, covers systems for personnel,
accounting, budgeting and funding. The current computer installation is soon to
be upgraded with one with much greater capacity, and the coverage of the
existing system will be supplemented to include purchasing and inventory
control.
Organization
4.15      Responsibility for financial management is shared between the Vice-
President, Planning and Control Division (for planning and budgetary control)
and the Vice-President, Administration and Accounting (for the preparation of
financial statements), neither of whom benefit from a strong financial
expertise.   Actual work organization is further split among several units
without a central reporting point. A more efficient organization would call for
drawing together all staff responsible for accounting, budgetary control,
financial planning, and other financial activities, and placing them under a
separate Chief Financial Executive, at least of vice-presidential rank.
4.16      Generally speaking, the various departments of the corporation keep
their own records of costs for which they are responsible to enable them to
control expenditure within authorized limits.   These records are then agreed
with the accounting records and any errors in the accounts corrected.   This
situation, whereby control records are kept outside the formal systems, is not
cost-effective.   It may well reflect lack of confidence in the centralized
systems or the fact that information received from them is not timely.   An
effort should be made that all information processing activities are fully
justified.
Financial Management
4.17      KGC has not yet assembled the necessary expertise to perform proper
financial planning, although it does prepare forecasts of its financial
statements for the forthcoming year (including balance sheet) as part of its
annual budget.  The Project Coordination Department is nominally in charge of
preparing financial projections but lacks the necessary staffing to do so.
Financial projections are prepared occasionally with the assistance of an
outside accounting firm. In view of the growing complexity of KGC's operations
and related financial issues, KGC needs to take measures to strengthen its
financial planning capability, including possibly the creation of a separate



- 30 -
Finance Department and recruitment of a Vice-President, Finance.   During the
nes-otiation it was ag-reed that KQ_shall  repare an A         n_PrZram indicating
the measures  it intends to take over the next three vears to buiLd u _ts
tgNp-eise in the area of financial management. including otgani ational changes
and staff training.   This Action Program would be submitted to and discussed
with the Bank by June 30. 1992.  KGC also needs to develop better control over
its financiag requirements and the implications of possible sources of financing
on its future financial structure. Accordinglv. it was agreed with KGC. during
the negotiation. that KGC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank. by March 31 of
each year. a rollin, lon -term  financial  Dlan  containing proiected  income
statement   sources   d uses of funds and balance sheets form period of no less
than seven_year.s.
Internal Audis
4.18      The auditing function benefits from a proper degree of autonomy from
operational management, with strong reporting lines and a broad-based annual
program. Work is carried under the General Manager, Auditing Department, who in
turn reports to the Standing Auditor, a full-time GOK appointee.   Between six
and twelve internal audit reports are prepared each year in accordance with an
annual program approved by the Standing Auditor; these reports are extensive in
coverage and submitted to the MOER and Ministry of Finance for information. The
auditing staff appears well motivated and aware of its responsibilities.   A
source of concern, however, is that they are predominantly engineers. This is
clearly an advantage for much of their work which is operational in focus, but
there appears to be a need for an injection of conventionally trained and
experienced auditors to reinforce the coverage of financial issues.  While the
present staff are able to benefit from training courses mounted by the Board of
Audit, they lack the exposure to commercial audit practices. This is a source
of concern,  given the growing scale of KGC's operations.   There is also a
particular need to strengthen the audit function in relation to computer-based
systems.    Training  of  audit  staff  would  be  covered  under  the  Financial
Management Action Program to be prepared by KGC (para 4.17).
External Audit
4.19      KGC's accounts  are audited annually by external auditors.   Audit
reports have never been qualified since KGC was set up.   KGC has engaged a
reputable firm of auditors (Samil Accounting Corporation) to certify its 1990
statements.   KGC's accounts are also periodically audited by the Government
Audit Board as required under the Auditing Act applicable to public
corporations. These arrangements are satisfactory. During the negotiation. it
was agreed with KGC.  that KGC will continue to employ independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and submit to the Bank certified copies of its audited
financial statements together with the auditor's report not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition. it was also agreed that
KGC will submit to the Bank within sixty days after the end of the six-month
period of each fiscal year. unaudited semi-annual financial statements of its
operations.



- 31 -
F. Insurance
4.20      KGC has adequate insurance coverage.  Its assets are insured against
fire, explosion and other risks including earthquake.   The total sum insured
against fire is W232,000 million ($330 million) of direct construction costs.
Third party liability is in excess of that required by law and has limits for
property damage of W200 million ($290,000), and personal injury of W5 million
($7,000). Reinsurance is in place to cover any exceptionally high claim.
G. Research and Development
4.21      KG(  is  in  the  process  of  developing  an  R&D  capability  in  gas
technology.   A new R&D Centre  in Ansan city,  about 40km from Seoul,  was
inaugurated in May 1990.  At present 22 persons are engaged in R&D, and this
number will grow to about 50 by the end of 1991. Gaz de France, using a grant
from the French government, has helped in designing, constructing and equipping
the facility, and in staff training.
4.22      The planned R&D program will include basic science as well as applied
research. It will support the technical needs of KGC activities in LNG handling
and gas transmission.  It will also have a strong emphasis on gas utilization
and will supply technical support to the CGCs.   The Center will be used for
technical training of KGC and CGC staff. It will also play a role in supporting
the engineering standards and operational procedures used by the Korean gas
industry.   There is indeed much to be gained in tuning the currently adopted
standards to the specific situations in Korea.  A strong technical capability
will promote this and lead to lower cost options in construction and operations.
4.23      The analysis carried out in the Gas Utilization Study underscored the
relevance of (end-use) technolegy choices in fuel decisions.   KGC has come to
realize that an expanded gas strategy required special efforts to foster the
introduction of ziditional end-use technologies (in particular, small-scale,
high-efficiency technologies) into the Korean marketplace. This is required to
take full advantage of the versatility of gas and its adaptability to high-
efficiency processes which can go a long way toward compensating for the high
energy cost of imported LNG. Accordingly, KGC is aiming its gas utilization R&D
towards the longer term and is selecting projects for specific commercial
applications, for exanple in developing the use of gas in chiller/heaters and in
fuel cells. Such a p;-ogram for KGC is an important development and matches the
strategy of other nati.onal gas companies, but it is important that KGC moves
more into a position which will enable it to exploit the results. There would
be advantages in this resp,ect in a stronger organizational link between KGC and
the marketing activities )f the CGCs.
4.24      GOK has recently agreed to KGC allocating up to 5% of total revenues
to R&D activities. The proposed program would require an annual budget of about
$10 million,or 2% of total revenue, starting in 1992.   These percentages are
high: they would be equivalent to W3.0/m3 (i.e. $0.10/mmbtu).  KGC should



- 32 -
endeavor not to duplicate efforts already made elsewhere inasmuch as relevant
technology is available which can easily be tapped for the benefit of gas users
in Korea.
5. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
5.1       KGC buys and sells natural gas wholesale.   It buys it directly from
Pertamina (Indonesia) in the form of LNG. Its activities (and correspondingly,
its assets) include the unloading of LNG vessels, storage and regasification of
LNG, and gas transmission co points of sale (i.e., city-gas stations and power
plants). Except for negligible sales to industries located close to its Pyong
Taek terminal, KGC has for clients KEPCO and the seven CGCs covering the
Seoul/Incheon area.
5.2       KGC started commercial operations in 1987.  As of December 31, 1990,
its total assets amounted to Won 526 billion ($751 million equivalent) for
annual sales worth about Won 445 billion  ($636 million).   KGC's proposed
investment program is ambitious and will place some strain on an otherwise
reasonably sound balance sheet.   Total investments over the next four years
could total up to $1,426 million. If implemented as currently scheduled, KGC's
total assets would increase at least tb.ae-fold by 1994.
5.3       KGC is mandated to ensure that its revenues are sufficient to meet its
operating expenses and debt service obligations.  While gas prices are subject
tD GOK's approval (See para. 5.12), they are set on the basis of recommendations
f.ormulated by KGC.   Subject to the Government's endorsement of its yearly
'udget, KGC is authorized to formulate its investment program and borrow money
as required to implement this program.
B. Gas Trade Arrangements
5.4       KGC's current contract with Pertamina provides for firm (take-or-pay)
purchases of 2 mty of LNG over a 20-year period starting in 1987. The terms of
the contract are set on a CIF basis, with the price formula differentiating
between the FOB portion (indexed on the price of crude oil) and transport costs
(which are escalated at a fixed 2.5X rate p.a.).   KGC's material costs also
include tariff, defense and other taxes equivalent to 4.3X of the CIF price. To
supplement the LNG quantities covered under this contract, KGC has also imported
LNG under spot contracts (also with Pertamina) starting in August 1990.  Spot
purchases in 1990 amounted to 339 thousand tons (W58.5 billion) at an average
cost about 4% less than that of contracted quantities.



- 33 -
5.5       Domestic pricing policies differ in their treatment of KEPCO and of
the CGCs.120  In the case of KEPCO, the agreed policy entitles KGC to charge
the eq"ivalent CIF price end taxes incurred during the previous month, plus a
fixed margin currently set at Won 39.03/m3 ($5.3/GCal) to cover the cost of
storage, regasification and transport. This margin is based on an assessment of
KGC's unit costs over the 1987-91 period.  It is subject to review every three
years and is set for review in 1991.
5.6       In the case of the CGCs, the pricing philosophy agreed with GOK is to
maintain, as far as possible, stable prices to the final consumers while, in
principle, allowing the same average margin to KGC as the one it gets on sales
to  KEPCO.     GOK's  end-use  pricing  objectives  are  to:  (a)  ensure  the
competitiveness of gas with alternative fuels in economically rewarding
applications; and (b) ensure the financial viability of KGC and the CGCs.  In
line with this general policy, the (city-gate) price to the CGCs has been
adjusted seven times since the inception of gas sales; (the price to KEPCO does
change every month with that of imported LNG.) KGC's actual margin on sales to
the CGCs has in practice varied widely over time, with a low of Won 15.75/mr3 in
June 1988 and a high in excess of Won 100/m3 in the early part of 1987. Because
sales to the CGCs have so far remained small in relation to total turnover, KGC
has been able to absorb these fluctuations without much difficulty. As city-gas
sales develop, however, price fluctuations could have a deleterious effect on
KGC's liquidity.   Unless petroleum product prices are themselves deregulated
(which would obviate the need for stable gas prices), a possible approach may be
for GOK to establish some kind of stabilization mechanism as is now done for
petroleum products.   During the negotiation, it was agreed that KGC and the
Government shall prepare, and submit to the Bank by June 30 of each year, an
annual paper discussing the rationale for the DroDosed gas price structure for
the following year. including an assessment of the impact of likely LNG price
fluctuations on KGC's liguiditv.
C. Past and Present Financial Performance
5.7       KGC's financial results over the past four years appear at
Annex 13. Converted to US dollars, they can be summarized as follows:
lO/  While LNG purchases are contracted on an energy content basis, the sale price to the CGCs
is set on a volumetric basih (assuming a calorific value of the gas of kCal 10,500/m),
while the price to KEPCO is set on a calorific basis.



- 34 -
Table 5.1:  Income Statements (1987-1990)
($ million)
Actual
1987      1988       1989       1990
Gas Sales (MMT)                  1.6        2.1        2.0        2.4
Revenues                         376        529        504        636
Operating Expenses
LNG Purchases               296        374        362       514
O&M                          16         24         31        40
Depreciation                 15         31         35         36
Sub-total             327        429        428        590
Operating Income                  49        100         77         46
Less:
Other Expenses               26          4        (27)         3
Interest                     40         49         37        31
Income Tax                    0          2        17          6
Net Income                       (17)        44         50          6
Average Exchange Rate
(W/$)                 831        741        685        700
Operating Ratio                   87%        81%        85%        93%
Rate of Return on NFA             18%        21%        14%        9%
5.8      As can be seen in the above table, KGC made a loss during its initial
year of operation, but made subsetquent profits, with its rate of return on
average net fixed assets ranging from 9% to 21%.   Overall, KGC's financial
results during its first four years of operations have been satisfactory,
particularly considering the pioneering nature of its business in Korea.
5.9       KGC's balance sheets for the past four years appear at Annex 13 and can
be suzmmarizeC. as follows in US dollar terms:



- 35 -
Table 5.2: KGC's Balance Sheets (1987-1990.
($ million)
Actual
1987      1988        1989       1990
Assets
Gross Fixed Assets          425        591        621         667
Less:  Accumulated Dep.    17           55         921        122
Net Fixed Assets            408        536        530         545
Work in Progress              96         16         19         0
Other Assets                106         44          28         66
Working Capital (net)          4         78         82         38
614       673         661        649
Financed by:
Long Term Debt              535        533        465        458
Paid-in Capital              96        116        121         119
Retained Earnings            (17)       25          74         70
Year End Exchange Rate (W/$) 796             687        682        714
Current Ratio                     1.0        2.1        1.8        1.4
Debt:Debt & Equity                88%        81%        72%        71X
5.10      KGC's assets have been largely financed by long-term debt, hence a
generally high, albeit declining, debt-to-equity ratio. Moreover, much of KGC's
outstanding liabilitie, carry relatively short maturities in relation to the
long-term nature of KGC's assets: some 57% of the balance outstanding as of
December 31, 1990, is due by 199411-/.  This is partly due to KGC's decision in
1987 to prepay two loans from Marubeni/NishoIwai (W3.8 billion) and ADB ($40
million) on account of high interest rates and appreciation of the Won.
11/ KGC's long term loans outstanding as of December 31, 1989 amounted to Won 348 billion made up
of (a) local currency loans consisting of a seven-year loan from the Korea Development Bank
(KDB) for Won 56 billion due in 1994; a nine-year loan from the Project Development Fund for
Won 189 billion due in 1998; and a 10-year loan from Zhe Korea Foreign Exchange Bank for Won
28 billion due in 1998; (b) foreign currency loans consisting of: a five-year loan from KDB
for Won 78 billion due in 1991; and a 10-year loan from Banque Nationale de Paris/Banque
Francaise du Commerce Exterieur for Won 10 billion due in 1995; and (c) a five-year supBlier
credit from a consortium of Belgium's Tractionel Engineering International and Britain's
Kellogg for Won 1 billion due in 1990.



- 36 -
5.11      Despite high debt service obligations over the past four years, KGC's
liquidity position has remained favorable with a current ratio in the order of
two over 1988-1989. Its debt service coverage ratio, however, was low (0.6-0.9)
as can be seen in the Sources and Applications of Funds Statements (Annex 13);
this is explained by the prepayment of some earlier loans and the generally
short maturities of its long-term debt.   This has limited KGC's ability to
finance capital expenCitures out of internally generated funds; all such
expenditures (which amounted to only $135 million during 1987-90) have been
financed largely by new long-term debt and by some capital increases. The net
result, however, has been a progressive reduction in KGC's debt service burden
over time.
D. Future Financial Performance
5.12     While GOK's policy is to set gas prices so as to cover KGC's operating
costs and debt service obligations, financial targets in terms of returns on
assets or contribution to capital expenditures are largely absent. In view of
the significant level of investments contemplated until 2000 (about $2.25
billion), a high level of self-financing can not be achieved for the next
several years.   KGC's cash generation will also be hindered by its lack of
access to debt instruments with maturities commensurate with its line of
activity.   While the proposed Bank loan should ease somewhat KGC's financial
position, its magnitude will not be sufficient to modify KGC's future standing
significantly.
KGC's Investment Program
5.13     KGC's investment program during 1991 to 2000 is described in paras 3.1-
3.5. Total expenditures are estimated at W1,570 billion ($2.25 billion). This
program includes terminal capacity additions (in the form of expansion of the
existing Pyong Taek terminal and construction of a new terminal at Incheon) and
the phased construction of a trunkline grid system serving key areas of the
peninsula.



- 37 -
Table 5.3: KGC's Investment Program. 1991-2000
Construction
Period           Won billion        $ million
Terminals
Pyorg Taek Expansion        1)91-94               151              216
Incheon Terminal            1991-97               501              715
Trunklines
Seoul Metropolitan Area   1991-95                 120              172
Central Region              1991-93                92              131
Yongnam Region              1992-97               307              438
Honam Region                1992-97               144              206
Others                     1994-2000              255              364
Total                                       1,570              2,242
Financing Plan
5.14      KGC's financing plan for the proposed project implementation period
(1991-94) is as follows:
Table 5.4: KGC's Financing Plan. 1991-9'+
Won billion      S million    Percent
Financing Reguirements
Investment Program
Proposed Project              362             517            33
Other Projects                637             910             59
Increase in Working Capital         83              119             8
Total                             1,082           1,546           100
Sources of Funds
Cash Generation                     77              110             7
Capital Increase                   196              280            18
Proposed IBRD Loan                  70              100             6
Other Borrowings                   739            1,056            68
Total                            1,082            1,546           100



- 38 -
5.15     The Goverrment is giving high priority to KGC's investment program
because of its anticipated effect on air quality, and has indicated its
readiness to provide the necessary budgetary funding (in the form of capital
increases) for KGC to maintain a satisfactory financial position during program
implementation, Equity injections are expected to account for as much as 20% of
capital expenditures.   Internal cash generation is projected to improve over
time, averaging 7% of capital expenditures (excluding IDC) during the project
period.   KGC's borrowings, including the proposed IBRD loan, would contribute
the balance of 74%.  The projected borrowings include loans from domestic and
foreign commercial banks with maturities of seven years, a loan from the
Petroleum Business Fund with a maturity of five years, and the IBRD loan with a
maturity of 15 years.    During  the negotiation.  the Bank agreed with  the
Government that it will take measures. including but not necessarily limited to
equity injections into KGC's capital. to ensure that KGC remain in a position to
meet its financial covenants with the Bank during- project implementation (para
3.14).
Financial Prospects
5.16     Projections of KGC's financial performance for the period 1991-2000 and
the assumptions underlying these projections are presented in Annexes 14 and 15.
Key financial indicators are presented in Table 5.5 below.



Table 5.5: KGC'S Projected Key Financial Indicators, 1991-2000
Financial Year ending December 31,   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Total Volume Sold (thousand tons)   2,564   2,656   3,890   4,388   4,922   6,044   6,197   6,534   6,819   7,167
Total LNG Purchase ($/m3)            0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    C.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15
KGC Margin ($1m3)                    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.07    0.07    0.07    0.08    0.08    0.09
KGC Selling Price ($/m3)             0.20    0.20    0.21    0.21    0.21    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.23    0.23
Income ($ million)
Total Operating Revenues             643     676   1,003   1,149   1,307   1,631   1,700   1,823   1,936   2,071
Total Operating Expenses             547     569     819      933   1,056   1,299   1,377   1,494   1,563   1,650
Operating Income                      96     107      184     216     251     333     323      327     373     421
Net Income                            44      36      71       99     140     177     170      237     276     316
Primary Ratios
Rate of Return \a.a(%)              17.7    21.2    34.4    32.4    30.4    37.9    20.3    14.5    17.5    20.6
Self Financing Ratio (%)              32       0       7       -3      12      16      42      687     446     201
Debt Service Coverage (times)        1.6      1.1     1.4     1.4     1.7      1.6     1.7     2.2     2.2     2.3
Debt/Debt plus Equity (%)             69      68      67       65      61      57      51      44       35      26
Operating Ratio (%)                   85      84      82       81      81      80      81      82       81      80
Current Ratio                        1.2      1.6     1.3     1.3     1.5      1.4     1.3     1.9     2.4    32.5
Accounts Receivable (Days)            38      40      37       37      38      36      37      39       41      42
\-a On average net fixed assets



- 40 -
5.17     KGC's revenue forecast assumes that: (a) sales would increase from 2.4
million tons of LNG in 1990 to 7.2 million tons in 2000; and (b) KGC's margin on
sales would be adjusted by 5% p.a. starting in 1992 to keep up with domestic
inflation. Total revenues on gas sales would increase at an average annual rate
of 12% p.a., from Won 445 billion in 1990 to W1,450 billion in the year 2000.
Operating costs are projected to remain at the level of 80-85% of revenues
during the projected period. On this basis, KGC's profitability is expected to
remain adequate, with a return on net fixed assets ranging from 15% to 38%.
5.18     The main challenge for KGC will be to maintain a satisfactory capital
structure when executing its investment program. While KGC is not expected to
achieve a significant level of self financing until its high expenditure period
is over (1992-96), its debt-to-equity ratio is projected to improve steadily as
the impact of outstanding liabilities with short maturities wanes and a more
appropriate mix of debt maturities is put in place.
5.19     To  ensure  that measures  are  taken  to maintain  a  strong  capital
structure and satisfactory liauidity. it was agreed with KGC at the negotiation
that KGC would not incur any further debt if such additional debt would raise
its total indebtedness to more than 75% of its total capitalization, and that it
will maintain a current ratio of at least 1.2.
5.20     KGC's debt coverage ratio in the past has been low, reflecting its loan
refinancing strategy at the time.   The financial projections show that, with a
strengthe..3d capital base and regular adjustment to KGC's margin, KGC should not
have any major difficulty in maintaining a debt service coverage ratio between
1.4  to 2.3  times.   With a view to maintaining debt  service  coverage  at
acceptable levels, during the negotiation it was agreed that KGC would not incur
any additional debt unless a reasonable forecast shows that its estimated net
revenues after expenditures for each year during the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least 1.2 times its total estimated debt service
reguirements. including the debt to be incurred, in 1992. and at least 1.4 times
afterwards.
6. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.1      The project will have significant economic and environmental benefits.
About 80% of incremental gas consumption between 1990 and 1995 can be justified
based on strictly-defined economic criteria (i.e., ignoring environmental exter-
nalities). Two thirds of incremental gas use will be on account of additional
power generation capacity, in particular the new combined-cycle power and CHP
plants which have been shown to be parts of the least-cost solution to Korea's
power and residential space heating development requirements.   Most of the
residential, commercial and industrial demand reflects individual choices based
on economically-efficient pricing. GOK has taken measures (in the form of fuel
use directives) to promote the use of gas by certain categories of residential



- 41 -
and commercial consumers with a view to bettering air quality in urban areas.
These policies will affect about 20% of incremental sales (essentially the space
heating loads).
A. Benefits from Fuel Substitution
6.2       The project will provide significant economic benefits to the country
by making natural gas, a clean, low-polluting and competitive fuel, available to
some 2.7 million domestic,  28,000 commercial,  and 500 additional industrial
consumers by 1995.   This will achieve two important government objectives:
saving foreign exchange by substituting more costly fuel alternatives and
protecting the Korean economy from possible disruptions in the oil market.
6.3      An economic evaluation of KGC investments needs to incorporate the
complementary investments to be carried out by the CGCs (and their consumers).
The analysis presented here deals with the proposed KGC project combined with a
five-year (1991-95) time-slice of CGC investments. Project evaluation is done
on an incremental basis taking the situation in 1990 as reference base: previous
investments are considered as sunk and future benefits and costs flows are
calculated on an incremental basis (taking the pattern of LNG usage in 1990 as a
starting point against which future consumption is being compared).
6.4      The benefits of the project are derived from the value of the fuels
displaced by natural gas, corrected for differentials in thermal efficiency. 12/
In the case of the quantities of gas to be used in the power sector, the netback
value of gas (as defined in footnote 3, para. 2.14), which is based on a
comparison of gas-fuelled generation with the most likely coal-fired
alternative, is used as a measure of benefits. The economic costs include: (a)
the CIF price of imported LNG (based on the Bank's crude oil price
projections)13/; (b) the capital and operating expenditures to be incurred by
KGC and the CGCs during the 1991-95 period; and (c) CGC consumer expenditures
(i.e., in/out piping).
6.5       In terms of fuel substitution, the project is expected to achieve the
following objectives: (a) to increase the average end-use value of the gas
available under the original contract by shifting its u3age from existing
thermal power plants (where it substitutes low-value HFO) to higher-value city-
gas markets; and (b) to expand the overall supply of gas (Erom 2.4 mty in 1990
to 5 mty from 1995 onwards), largely in response to KEPCO's increased demand for
its new gas-dedicated units. The basic assumption is that these new units would
12/  The value of substituted fuels is based on CIF prices. In particular, displaced HFO is
treated as imported. While the increase in gas consumption will over time have a marked
impact on the demand structure for petroleum products, it is not expected to lead to a
surplus of fuel oil. The refinery industry already has excess cracking facilities and is
gearin8 itself increasingly for the production of lighter fuel oils in anticipation of future
tightening of fuel standards.
13/  The (base case) economic evaluation assumes a continuation of LNG prices as set in KGC's
present import contract, which provides for a direct indexing of the price of LNG (FOB) on a
basket of crudes (with a discount of about 101 on a calorific equivalent basis). A
sensitivity analysis to account for possible changes in the current correlation between oil
and LNG prices is presonted in para 6.7.



- 42 -
in effect obviate the need for additional coal-fired thermal plants.  The CHP
plants would in addition meet the space heating requirements of new apartment
complexes which would otherwise depend on HFO-fired central heating facilities.
The distribution of fuels substituted by LNG in 1990 and 1995 is estimated to be
as follows:
Table6.1: Estimates of Substituted Fuels
1990                  1995
M. tons   Mtoe       M. tons   Mtoe
LNG (a)           2.3      3.0         4.9       6.4
LPG               0.1      0.2         0.5      0.6
Diesel Oil        0.3      0.3         0.7      0.8
HFO               2.7      2.7         2.8       2.7
Coal               -        -          6.8      4.
Total (b)                3.2                  8.3
Conversion ratio (b/a)   104%                  135%
6.6      The economic rate of return calculated on this basis is 29% (see Annex
16 for details). This high rate of return is largely due to: (a) the sunk costs
in KGC's existing infrastructure; and (b) the high efficiency of natural gas in
combined-cycle power units.
6.7      The project economics were tested to changes in key assumptions.   In
particular, an alternative pric  scenario for LNG and coal was developed to
account for possible volatility in energy markets. While the base-case scenario
assumes (following IBRD projections) that the price of crude oil will hover (in
1990 prices) around $17-22/bbl (FOB) and that of coal around $40-42/ton (FOB),
the alternative scenario assumes a flat crude oil price of $30/bbl and a coal
price of $45/ton (assuming some price elasticity between the two markets). The
results of this and other sensitivity analyses are presented in the following
table and detailed in Annex 16. They underscore the robustness of tihe proposed
project under various conditions.
Table62:  Sensitivity Analyses
ERR (X)
Base Case                                        29
(a)     Oil $30/bbl; Coal $45/ton                24
(b)     LNG Prices up 10                        27
(c)     Capital and O&M Expend. up 10%           26
(d)     Gas Sales down 10%                       26
(e)     (c) and (d)                              22



- 43 -
B. Environmental Benefits
6,8      While using LNG is justified because of its competitiveness in selected
applications, an important justification for the large proposed investments in
gas infrastructure, and for the critical role assumed by GOK in bringing these
investments about, lies with the major contribution natural gas will make toward
mitigating the impact of energy use on the quality of the environment. Compared
to alternative sources of energy (with the possible exception of nuclear
energy), natural gas is a clean and low-polluting fuel; its expanded avail-
ability in the Seoul-Incheon area (and progrcssively in other parts of the
country) will lead to a significant improvement in air quality in these areas by
reducing emissions of, inter alia, sulfur dioxide and parttculates (see Annex 17
for details).   The new gas-fired power plants will 'n effect substitute coal-
fired stations, while CHP plants in support of district heating systems will be
in lieu of individual oil-fired space heating equipment.   Similarly,  the gas
quantities used by CGC consumers will substitute an array of (mostly liquid)
fuels with  a higher  sulfur  and particulate  content.    Based  on  the  fuel
substitution assumptions described in para 6.5, the project is expected to
reduce emissions of SO2 by 60,000 tons each year and particulates by perhaps
10,000  tons year.   The project would also  effect a net  reduction  in CO2
production by 11 million tons annually.
C. Project Risks
6.9      The  potential  risks  to  the  project  fall  essentially  into  three
categories: market, construction and operation. An evaluation of these risks
indicates that while the risks are real and must be given due consideration,
they are clearly manageable with proper care.
6.10     As illustrated above, the economic, environmental and other benefits
expected to be derived from the project are of a magnitude which gives only a
minimum chance that slower than expected market development would jeopardize the
justification of the project. Moreover, KGC is providing sufficient flexibility
in its LNG supply arrangements (which rely on a combination of long-term and
short-term contracts and spot purchases) to be in a position to adjust to
possible delays in market development should such an eventuality arise (due for
instance to delays in power plant construction). Project implementation could
be delayed for a variety of causes, such as loss of long delivery equipment in
shipment, accidents, or possibly natural calamities. However, considering the
proven construction skills demonstrated by KGC in implementing the original gas
system, it is highly unlikely that construction delays would cause more than a
temporary set-back to the project.
6.11     While LNG terminal operations are not inherently complex, having to
deal with a flammable liquid under cryogenic conditions raises the concern that
terminal operations could be disrupted for a length of time because of some
mishap. Hazard analyses and risk assessments cor'irm that the site and layout
of the existing terminal can safely accommodate the proposed extension, so plant
operations should not in the future oecome significantly more difficult than



- 44 -
they have been in the past. The best available technology and expertise will be
applied to the project and KGC's experienced operating staff will operate the
extended facilities.   Taking into accotunt KGC's past operating record,  the
likelihood that malfunctions would lead to a sustained interruption in terminal
operations is considered low and the investment risk involved acceptable.
7. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements and Understandings
7.1      During the negotiation, agreements were reached with the Government
that it will, as a condition of loan effectiveness, enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with KGC for onlending the proceeds of the loan to KGC on terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.14).
7.2      During the negotiation, the following agreements were reached with KGC
that it will:
(i)   provide the Bank with updates of its annual investment program
and seek the Bank's comments before starting construction work
on any major additional investment beyond those covered by the
project (para 3.5);
(ii) carry regular ( at least three, during the implementation of the
project) safety audits of its technical operations and share the
results of these audits with the Bank (para 3.21);
(iii) by June 30, 1992, prepare and submit to the Bank for review an
Action Program for the organization, staffing, and training of
its financial staff (including internal auditing), and take into
account the Bank's comments (paras 4.17-4.18);
(iv) by March 31 of each year, furnish to the Bank a rolling long-
term financial plan of no less than seven years and exchange
views with the Bank regarding KGC's future finances (para 4.17);
(v) employ independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and submit to
the Bank certified copies of its audited financial statements
together with the auditor's report not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year, and unaudited semiannual financial
statements within 60 days after the end of each six-month period
(para 4.19).



- 45 -
(vi)  prepare and submit to the Bank, by June 30 of each year, a paper
discussing the gas price structure (para 5.6);
(vii) not incur any additional debt if this would raise its total
indebtedness to more than 75X of its total car 'alization or
cause its debt service coverage ratio to drop below 1.2 times
in 1992 and 1.4 times afterwards; and maintair. a current ratio
of at least 1.2 (paras 5.19-5.20).
7.3      During  the  negotiation,  an  understanding  was  reached  that  the
Government will take measures, including but not necessarily limited to equity
injections into KGC's capital, to ensure that KGC remain in a position to meet
its financial covenants with the Bank during project imiplementatyion ( paras.
3.14 anrd 5.15).
B. Recommendation
7.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project is
suitable for a Bank loan of $100 million.   The loan will be extended to the
Republic of Korea for 15 years including five years of grace on repayment of
principal at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
PROJECTED SUPPLYIDEMAND OF LNG
Forecast
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996      1997    i398      1999     2000
1. iNG Purchases (miv)
From Indonesia
Existing LT Contract          2.0    2.0    2.0     .      2.0    2.0    2.0      2.0       2.0      zO       2.0
Spot Purchase La              0.3    0.5    0.1    0.3    0.4    0.4    1.0       1.2       1.5      1.8      2.2
Short-Term  L_b                             0.4    1.0    1.1    1.0
New LT %Lb                                                 0.5    1.0    2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       0
Other Sources:
Malaysia
Short-Term  Lc                             0.1    0.3    0.3
Long-Term  Lc                                                    0.5    1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0
Additonal Purchases                 0.1    0.1    0.3    0.1
Total LNG Purchases            2.3    2.6    2.7    3.9    4.4    4.9    6.0        6.2      6.5      6.8      7.2
II. Terminal Capacitv (mtv)
Existing PT Terminal          3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Phase I Expansion              -       -      -      -    1.0    1.0    1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0
PhaseI Expdnslon               -       -      -      -      -    1.0    1.0       1.0       1.0     1.0       1.0
Incheon Terminal               -       -      -      -      -            1.0      1.5       3.0      3.0      3.0
Total Cawacltv                3.O    3.0    3.0    3.0    4.0    5.0    6.0        6.5      8.0      8.0      8o
Ill. Demand (thousand tons)
City Gas ComDanles:
Residental                   195    293    373    495    586    702    661        621      763      917     1106
Commercial                   286    349    391    452    483    519    537        555      586      616      652
Industrial                    90    111    132    173    199    251    426        601      765      866      989
Subtotal                      571    753    896   1120   1268   1472   1624      1777      2114     2399     2747
KEPCO
lido I Combined Cycle        310    310    310    620    620    620    796        796      796      796      796
lido It Combined Cycle       310    310    310    620    620    620    796        796      796      796      796
Combined Heat & Power        360    360    360   1070   1420   1420   1812       1812     1812     1812     1812
Pyong Taek Power Plant       460    460    460    460    460    460    575        575      575      575      575
Incheon Power Plant          326    371    320       -      -      -
Seoul Power Plant              -      -       -      -      -    330    441       441      441      441      441
Subtotal                     1766   1811   1760   2770   3120   3450   4420      4420     4420     4420      4420
TotilDemand                   2337   2564   2656   3890   4388   4922   £44       6197      6534     6819     7167
Definitions: Spot Sales < 2 years; Short-Term: 3-6 years; Long-Term: 20 years.
La Contract dated July 1990.
Lb Letter of Intent Issued to Periamina In 3eptenber 1990.
Lc Letter of Intent to be issued In December (to be updated).



I-' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~
41
KOREA                                                                 ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
GMA  SYSTEM EXPANSION PFOJECT
NETOACK VALUE OF GAS IN POWER SECTOR
A NETBACK VALUE OF GAt IN COMBINED-CYCLE POWER PLANT (COMPAftED TO CONVENTIONAL COAL-FItED PLANFT
A. 0AS-+IREC COftINED-CYCLE PLANT
Capital Costs                         Operating Coots                  Tota Costs (xot..loust ost,) (A)          Fuel Cost Alawu. .o (8- A)
(otwk'A)                                (otsiAwh)                                 (cts/ktWht)                            (ots/kt)
Load Feal.  Load Fact.  Load Fot       Lo  Fect.   Load Fat    Load Fat          Load Fact    Load Fact    Load Fat.   Load Fat    LosS Fact    Load Faot.
70%        50%         40%             70%          60%          40%             70%          50%          401          70%          50%          40%
1992     1.e6        Z30         2.68            0.38         0.48         0.58            2.01         2.7          3.48         4.54         5.38         6.06
199l      .e6        2.30        2.86            0.36         0.48         0.88            zo0          2.761        3.48         4.86         6.37         e,08
1904     1.68        2.30        2.88            0.36         0.48         0.68            2.01         Z78          3.48         4.62         5.33         6.06
9o6      1.65        2.30        2.8            0.36         0.48         0.66            zo0          2.78         3.48         4.59         6.41         a.12
lQ9     1.68        2.30        2.88            0.36         0.48         0.68            2.01         2.78         3.40         4.63         6.44         8.1
1t97     1.e6        Z30         2.88            0.36         0.48         0.68            2.01         2.78         3.48         4.66         6.46         6.19
1906     1.68        Z30         2.86            0.36         0.48         0.88            201          2.76         3.40         4.70         6.61         6.23
1900     1.66        230         2.86            0.36         0.48         0.68            zo1          2.78         3.48         4.73         6.58         6.26
2000      1.68        2.30        2.68           0.3S         0.48         0.86            2.01         2.76         3.48         4.77         6.68         6.30
2001      1.68        2.30        2.68           0.36         0.48         0.68            Zo1          l7e          3.48         4.78        65.0          6.31
2002      1.68        2.30        2.68           0.36         0.48         0.66            2.01         2.78         3.48         4.79          56.1         6.32
2003      1.e6       Z30          2.88           0.36         0,48         0.68            2.01         2.78         3.48         4.60         6.62         6.33
2004     1.66        Z30          2.68           0.38         0.48         0.68            2.01         2.78         3.48         4.62         6.63         6.34
2008     1.68         2.30        2.s            0.36         0.48         0.50            zo21         Z78          3.48         4.83         6.64         8.36
200e     1.66         2.30        2.86           0.36         0.48         0.68            2.01         2.78         3.40         4.83          6.66         6.36
2007      1.68        2.30        2.68           0.36         0.48         0.68            2.01         2.76         3.48         4.64          6.66         6.07
EL COAL-RRED STEAM PLANT
Capita coCsts                        Operwtang Costs                                          Total Cost$ (8)
(*to/kWh)                               (ctxiWII)                                                           (c%AhWh)
uod Fact   Load FaCL   LOa Fact        Loat Fet    Load Fat    Load FacL              Priam       Cota   Load Fact    Lo  Fac        Load Ft F.
70%         60%        40%             70%          80%          40%  _          MT)    (otskVA)           70%          60%          40%
1992     3.40        4.78        6.96            1.16         1.38         1.68           66.48         1.90         6.54         6.13         9.62
1990     340         4.76        6.96            1.16         1.38         1.68           66.03         zo1          6.68         8.16         9.64
1904     3.40        4.76        6.06            1.16         1.36         1.88           64.90         1.96         6.62         8.11         9.60
1996     3.40        4.76        6.96            1.16         1.38         1.68           67.07         z06          6.60         6.19         9.58
996      3.40        4.76        6.96            1.16         1.38         1.68           68.06         2.0z         6.63         8.22         9.61
1907     3.40        4.76        6.96            1.16         1,38         1.68           69.02         2.12         6.67         8.26         0.68
19s9     3.40        4.76        6.96            1.16         1.36         1.88           eo.01         Z16          6.70         6.29         9.66
1999     340         4.78        6.96            1.16         1.38         1.68           61.00         2.19         6.74         8.3          9.72
2000     a40         4.76        6.96            1.18         1.38         1.68           61.99         z23          6.77         8.36         9.76
2001     340         4.76        6.96            1.16         1.38         1.U8           6230          Z24          6.79         8.37         9.77
2002     3.40        4.76         6.96           1.16         1.38         1.68           62.3          2.26         6.80         6.39         9.78
2003      340        4.76        6.96            1.16         1.38         1.68           6.s6          z2.          6.81         8.40         9.79
2004      340        4.76        6.96            1.16         1.38         1.68           60.20          Z27        6.62         6.41         9.e0
200      340         4.76        6.96            1.1S         1.38         1.68           6363          2.29         6.68         8.42         s.61
200      3.40        4.76         .96            1.16         1.38         1.6            607i9         2.z2         6.64         6.43         9.62
2007     a40         4.7S        6.96            1.16         1.38         1.88           63.96         Z30          6.86         6A3          9.62
C. NETMACK VALUE OF GM
(itnIM3)                                (8/ton of LNiG)
Load Fato   Lrnd FeatL   Load Fact     Load FacL    Load Fact    Load Few.
70%        60%         40%             70:1         50%          40%
1992      164         217         246            328          383          434
1993      164         21e         246            326          386          430
1904      183         216         245            324          362          433
199I      168         219         248            329          367          439
lo9      16?         220         249            332          390          441
1997      169te                   261            334          392          44
im        190         223         262            337          395          448
199l      192         225         264            30           3908         440
2900      1903        226         266            342          400          481
2001      194         227         26e            342          401          482
2092      194         227         266            343          402          483
2003      196         228         267            34           403          464
2064      196         228         257            346          403          466
298       19i6        22          286            346          404          486
206       19g         22S         268            348          406          486
29o7      19         229         268            347          405          486



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PRO 'CCT
NETBACK VALUE OF GAS IN POWER SECTOR
B. Netback Value of Gas in Combined Heat/Power Plant
Compared to combination of convantional coal-fired polwer Want
and HFO-fired central heatino
Outputs for 600 MW Plant                  Non-Fuel Costs
($MnYr)                      Gas         Notback Value of Gas
Quantity             Value ($m1yr)                                           Consumption
Capital  Operating   Total    (OOO tons     (Ston)  ($(GCa) (WonIM3)
Power    He-t      Power al  Heat bl   Total                                   of LNG/yr)
(GWh) (OOOCGCp                        (A)                           (B)           (C)       (A-ByC
1992         1,314     885        106.8    18.9   125.7         36.3      7.9    44.3          200.0       407.3   31.33     230        1
1993         2,628    1.770       214.2    34.5   248.7         72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0       400.3   30.79     226
1994         2,628    1,770       213.2    35.9   249.1         72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0       401.3   30.87     227
1995         2,628    1,770       215.2    37.0   252.2         72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0       409.0   31.46      231
1996         2,628    1,770      216.1    38.6   254.7          72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0       415.4   31.95     235
1997        2628    1.770       217.0    40.2   257.2          72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0       421.7   32.44     238
1998         2,628    1,770      217.9    41.9   259.8          72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0      428.1    3293      242
1999         2,628    1,770      218.9    43.5   262.3          72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0       434.5   33.42     246
2000         2,628    1,770       219.8    45.1    264.9        72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0       440.9   33.91     249
2001         2,628    1,770       220.1    44.7   264.8         72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0       440.6   33.90      249
2002         2,628    1.770       220.4    44.3   264.7         72.7      15.9    88.5         400.0       440.4   33.88      249
2003         2,628    1,770       220.7    43.9   264.6         72.7     15.9    88.F          400.0       440.2   33.86      249
2004         2,628    1,770       221.0    43.5   264.6         72.7      15.9    88.5         400.0       440.0   33.85      249
2005         2,628    1,770       221.3    43.2   264.5         72.7     15.9    88.5          400.0       439.9   33.84      249
2006         2,628    1,770       221.5    43.2   264.6         72.7      15.9    88.5         400.0       440.2   33.86      249
2007         2,628    1,770       221.7    43.2   264.8         72.7      15.9    88.5         400.0       440.6   33.90      249
OQ 
0
1."



KOREA
KOREA GAS CORPORATiON
INVEST4ENT PROGRAM
(Won billion)
FORECAST
1991    1992    1993    1994  1990-94    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
IBRD Prolect:                                                     Subtotal
Pyontaek Expanslon Project          44.4    58.1      38.7     9.8   151.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   151.0
Seoul Metropolitan                  67.1    18.9    30.4       2.3    118.7      1.4      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   120.1
Central Region                      61.3      2.0    28.2      0.0    91.5       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    91.5
Other Prolects:
LNG Terminal Ui                      2.6    63.2    122.2    82.9   270.9   114.6    89.3    25.9          0.0      0.0     0.0   500.7
Yeongnam Region                      3.2    50.7    83.5    78.3   215.7    12.7    40.1    38.1           0.0      0.0     0.0   306.7
Honam Rogion                         1.7      9.9    39.7    3" 0      88.3    10.9    32.3    12.8        0.0     0.0      0.0   144.4
Southen Region                       0.0      3.2    16.5    40.4    60.1    53.2    38.5         9.4      0.0     0.0      0.0   161.2
Subsidiary Pipeline                  0.0      0.0      0.0     1.7      1.7      6.1    16.9    25.0    12.0    26.2        5.8    93.7
Total                             180.3   206.0   359.1    252.5   998.0   198.9   217.2   111.3    12.0    26.2           5.8  1,569.4
lBRD Prolect:                                                   (USS million)
Pyontaek Expansion Project          63.4    83.0    55.3    14.0   215.7         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   215.7
Seoul Metropolitan                  95.9    27.0    43.4        3.3   169.6      2.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   171.6
Central Region                      87.6      2.9    40.3       0.0   130.7      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   130.7
Other Proiects:
LNG Terminal Ui                      3.7    90.3    174.6   118.5   387.0   163.7   127.6    37.0          0.0      0.0     0.0   715.3
Yeongnam Region                      4.6    72.5    119.2   111.9   308.2    18.2    57.3    54.4          0.0      0.0     0.0   438.1
Honam Region                         2.4    14.2    56.7    52.9   126.2    15.6    46.2    18.3           0.0      0.0     0.0   206.3
Southem Region                       0.0      4.6    23.5    57.8    85.9    76.0    55.0    13.5          0.0      0.0     0.0   230.4
Subsidiary Pipeline                  0.0      0.0      0.0     2.4      2.4      8.7    24.2    35.8    17.1    37.5        8.3   133.9
Total                             257.6   294.4   513.0   360.8  1425.7   284.2   310.3   159.0    17.1    37.5            8.3  22420
ID



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. Pvong Taek Terminal Component
1.        Phase I extension of the terminal will incorporate the following
additional equipment and installations:
(a) one LNG storage tank, 100,000 kl capacity;
(b) two primary pumps, 150 T/H capacity;
(c) six secondary pumps, 110 T/H capacity;
(d) three high pressure, open rack vaporizers, 180 T/H capecity;
(e) two high pressure submered vaporizers, 90 T/H capacity;
(f) one sea water pump; and
(g) ancillary controls and metering system.
2.        Phase II extension has not yet been designed, but it will be
similar to Phase I and incorporate the following:
(a) One LNG storage tank, 100,000 kl capacity, and
(b) vaporization and auxiliaries to vaporize and supply an additional
200 T/H of natural gas.
B. Pipeline Component
1.        Exiansion of the Seoul MetroRolitan Pipeline Network includes the
sections listed below. Pipeline design and construction will be in accordance
with internationally accepted standards and codes. Routing of the added
pipeline sections is shown on Map IBRD 22793.
Pipeline Section                     Diameter (inch' Length (km)
Pan Wol - Pyung Chon                         26            19
Pyung Chon-Pun Dang                          26            20
Pun Dang-Tae Chi                             26            23
Kyong In-Chung Dong                          26            17
Chung Dong - Pan Wha                         26            14
Pan Wha - So Ae                              26             7
So Ae - Il San                               26            13



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
2.        The Mid Zone Trunkline includes the pipeline sections and spur line
to Chong Ju listed below. Design and construction will be in accordance with
the some standards and codes as the Seoul metropolitan pipelines. Routing is
shown on Map IBRD 22793.
PiReline Section                  Diameter (inch) Length (km)
Pyong Taek Terminal - An Chung              30          14.9
An Chung - Pyong Taek                        30         14.2
Pyong Taek   Song Whan                      30          15.1
Song Whan - Cho Nan                         30          13.1
Cho Nan - Su Shin                           30          16.6
Su Shin - Cho Chi Won                       30          14.4
Cho Chi Won - Chong Ju                      20          18.1
Nam My On - Yu Song                          30         16.8
Yu Song - Tae Jon                            30          9.2



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
!<OREA
GAS SYST1t! EXPANSION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
A. Pyong Taek Terminal (Phase I)
(US$ million)      (Won billion)
F.E.  L.C.  Total  F.E.  L.C.  Total
By Contractor:
Materials                16.5  14.5  31.0  11.6  10.2   21.7
Equipment                 1.4   0.5   1.9   1.0   0.4    1.3
Construction              0.0  44.3  44.3   0.0  31.0   31.0
Supervision & Inspection  3.8   0.0   3.8   2.7   0.0    2.7
By K.G.C.:
Materials                 7.6   4.5  12.0   s.3   3.2    8.4
Equipment                13.3   7.0  20.3   9.3   4.9   14.2
Engineering               0.0   2.7   2.7   0.0   1.9    1.9
Consulting Service        1.7   0.4   2.1   1.2   0.3    1.5
Project Management        0.0   8.6   8.6   0.0   6.0    6.0
Duties & Taxes            0.0   4.2   4.2   0.0   2.9    2.9
Total Base Cost        44.2  86.7  130.9  30.9  60.7   91.6
Physical Contingency    2.2   4.3   6.6   1.5   3.0    4.6
Price Contingency       3.4   8.6  12.0   2.4   6.0    8.4
Total Prolect Cost     49.8  99.6  149.5  34.9  69.7  104.6
B. Pyong Taek Terminal (Phase II)
(US$ million)      (Won billion)
F.E.  L.C.  Total  F.E.  L.C.  Total
By Contractor:
Materials                17.0   9.7  26.7  11.9   6.8   18.7
Equipment                 1.6   0.4   2.0   1.1   0.3    1.4
Construction              0.0  38.8  38.8   0.0  27.2   27.2
Supervision & Inspection  3.9   0.0   3.9   2.7   0.0    2.7
By K.G.C.:
Materials                4.4   5.8  10.2   3.1   4.1    7.1
Equipment                5.7   0.8   6.5   4.0   0.6    4.6
Engineering              0.0   4.5   4.5   0.0   3.2    3.2
Consulting Service        1.9   0.2   2.1   1.3   0.1    1.5
Project Management       0.0   6.8   6.8   0.0   4.8    4.8
Duties & Taxes            0.0   2.0   2.0   0.0   1.4    1.4
Base Cost              34.5  69.0  103.5  24.2  48.3   72.5
Physical Contingency    5.2  10.4  15.5   3.6   7.2   10.9
Price Contingency       4.7  11.1  15.8   3.3   7.8   11.1
Total Prolect C'st     44.4  90.5  134.9  31.1  63.3   94.4



- 5X -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
C. Expansion of Metropolitan Pipeline System
(US$ million)      (Won billion)
F.E.  L.C.  Total  F.E.   L.C.  Total
Land Acquisition         0.0  33.2  33.2   0.0  23.2   23.2
Coated Pipe               0.0  32.3  32.3   0.0  22.6   22.6
Other Pipeline Materials  3.5  18.9  22.4   2.5  13.2   15.7
Pipe Laying               0.0  29.0  29.0   0.0  20.3   20.3
Telemeter and Telecon     4.5   0.0   4.5   3.2   0.0    3.2
Metering                  4.2   0.0   4.2   2.9   0.0    2.9
Instrumentation           0.0   4.4   4.4   0.0   3.1    3.1
Other Electrical          0.0   3.6   3.6   0.0   2.5    2.5
Civil & Structural        0.0  31.4  31.4   0.0  22.0   22.0
Engineering               0.0   4.9   4.9   0.0   3.4    3.4
Inspection                0.0   4.1   4.1   0.0   2.9    2.9
Consultant Services/Trng.  0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1    0.1
Duties & Taxes            0.0   2.4   2.4   0.0   1.7    1.7
Base Cost              12.3  164.3  176.6   8.6  115.0  123.6
Physical Contingency    1.2  16.4  17.7   0.9  11.5   12.4
Price Contingency       0.8  19.3  20.1   0.6  13.5   14.1
Total Prolect Cost     14.4  200.0  214.4  10.1  140.0  150.1
D. Mid-Zone Gas Trunkline
(US$ million)      (Won billion)
F.E.   L.C.  Total  F.E.   L.C.  Total
Land Acquisition         0.0  17.9  17.9   0.0  12.5   12.5
Coated Pipe               0.0  38.6  38.6   0.0  27.0   27.0
Other Pipeline Materials  2.0  10.1  12.1   1.4   7.1    8.5
Pipe Laying              0.0  24.1  24.1   0.0  16.9   16.9
Telemeter and Telecon     4.9   0.0   4.9   3.4   0.0    3.4
Metering                 3.9   0.0   3.9   2.7   0.0    2.7
Instrumentation          0.0   1.7   1.7   0.0   1.2    1.2
Other Electrical          0.0   4.7   4.7   0.0   3.3    3.3
Civil & Structural        0.0  32.0  32.0   0.0  22.4   22.4
Engineering              0.0   4.9   4.9   0.0   3.4    3.4
Inspection               0.0   3.4   3.4   0.0   2.4    2.4
Consultant Services/Trng.  0.1   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0    0.1
Duties & Taxes           0.0   1.7   1.7   0.0   1.2    1.2
Base Cost              10.9  139.1  150.0   7.6  97.4  105.0
Physical Contingency    1.1  13.9  15.0   0.8   9.7   10.5
Price Contingency       0.7  13.7  14.4   0.5   9.6   10.1
Total Proiect Cost     12.7  166.7  179.4   8.9  116.7  125.6
QM~ Tha P*3fot           2if          ?8:~



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
ANNUAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
(US$ million)
A. Ppng Taek Terminal (Phase I)
1991              1992              1993
F.E      L.C.     F.       LC.      F.E.     LO.
BY Contrtor
MaterIa                      0.0      4.9      6.1       5.9     10.4      3.7
Equlpment                    0.4      0.1      0.2      0.1       0.8      0.3
Construction                 0.0      13.7     0.0      20.9      0.0      9.7
Supervilson & Inspection     0.4      0.0      2.2       0.0      1.2      0.0
By KG.C. :
Materhas                     4.6      2.7      3.0       1.8      0.0      0.0
EquIpment                    62       2.5      7.1      4.5       0.0      0.0
Engineerlng                  0.0      1.5      0.0      0.5       0.0      0.7
Consurtng Service            1.1      0.2      0.5      0.1       0.1      0.1
ProJect Management           0.0      2.8      0.0      3.8       0.0      2.0
Dulies& Taxes                0.0      2.1      0.0      2.1       0.0      0.0
Bae Cost                   12.6     30.5     19.1     39.7     12.5     16.5
Physial Contingency         0.8      1.5      1.0      2.0      0.6      0.8
Price Contingency           0.5      1.6      1.5      4.3      1.5      2.7 
Towal Proled Cost          13.7     33.6     21.5     46.0     14.6    20.1                                                                        L,
B. Pyong Taek Terminal (Phase I)
1991              1992              1993              1904
F.E      LC.      FE       LC.      F.E      LC.      F.E      LC.
By Contractor
Materials                    0.0      0.0      0.0       2.9      6.7      3.6     10.3      3.2
Equlpment                    0.0      0.0      0.4      0.1      0.3      0.1      0.9      02
Condsrucon                   0.0      3.6      0.0      11.0     0.0      16.6     0.0       7.7
Supervison & Insecton        0.0      0.0      0.4      0.0       2.3     0.0       1.2     0.0
BY IG.C.:
Materas                      0.0      0.0      4.4      5.8      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Equipment                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      5.7      0.8      0.0      0.0
Engineering                  0.0      2.0      0.0       1.4     0.0      0.6      0.0      0.6
Consulting Service           0.1      0.0       1.2     0.1      0.5      0.1      01       0.0
Project Management           0.0      0.4      0.0      2.0      0.0      2.7      0.0       1.7                                                   lb
Duties& Taxes                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.9      0.0      1.1      0.0      0.0                                                    fD
Base Cost                   0.1      6.0      6.4     24.2    15.5      25.4     12.5     13.4
Physical Contingency        0.0      0.9      1.0      3.6      2.3      3.8      1.9      2.0                                                    °
Prie Contingency            0.0      0.3      0.5      2.9      2.0      4.6      2.2      3.3
Total Project Cost          0.1      7.2      7.9     30.7     19.8     33.8     16.n     18.7



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
ANNUAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
(US$ million)
C. Expansion o Metropolitan Pipeline Sydem
1991             1992              1993             1904
F.E.    L.C.     F.       LC.      F.E      LC.     F.E.     LC.
Land AcquItmon              0.0    12.7       0.0    13.7      0.0      6.8      0.0      0.0
Coted Pipe                  0.0      11.2             12.6      0.0     8.6      0.0      0.0
Oter Pipen Matdls            1.0     8.4      1.9      7.6      0.0     2.9      0.0      0.0
Pipe Laying                 0.0      8.4      0.0      9.3      0.0     7.3      0.0      4.0
Teemr and Telcon            2.0      0.0      1.6      0.0      0.9     0.0      0.0      0.0
MeterIng                    2.0      0.0      1.6      0.0      0.7     0.0      0.0      0.0
Indrumenitdop               0.0      1.8      0.0      1.8      0.0     0.8      0.0      0.0
Oter Ecbical                0.0      1.7      0.0      1.9      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Chi & S duclural            0.0      7.7      0.0      92       0.0     7.8      0.0      6.7
EngIneing                   0.0      1.2      0.0      1.2      0.0     1.2      0.0      1.3
Ihpction                    0.0      1.2      0.0      1.2      0.0     1.2      0.0      0.5
Consulta ServleTnmg.        0.0      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Dutle & Taxes               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     2.4      0.0      0.0
BaseCos                    6.6    64.4       6.1    68.4      1.6    39.0       0.0     12.6
Physc Conte                0.6      6.4      0.6     5.8      02       3.9      0.0      1.3
PricnCtIngency             0.2      3.0      0.4     6.6      0.2      6.8      0.0     3.0
TOtl Prowet Cost           0.4    62.8       8.0    70.8      2.0    40.7       0.0    16.7
D. Mid-Zone Trunkine
1991             1992              1993
F.E.    L.C.     F.E.     L.C.     F.E      LC.
Land Acquiin                0.0      7.1      0.0      82       0.0     2.6
Cooled Pipe                 0.0     10.3      0.0    19.3       0.0     0.0
Other Pipeline Matals       1.1      6.0      0.9      5.1      0.0     0.0
Pipe Laying                 0.0      9.7      0.0      9.7     0.0      4.7
Telementer nd Telecon        1.1     0.0      3.8      0.0      0.0     0.0
Metering                     1.9     0.0      2.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Instrumentaton              0.0      0.0      0.0      1.7     0.0      0.0
OUter Beical                0.0      1.6      0.0      3.1     0.0      0.0
Civil & Sauctral            0.0      9.1      0.0    13.3       0.0     9.6
Engineedng                  0.0      2.2      0.0      2.2     0.0      0.5
Inspecion                   0.0      1.4      0.0      1.4     0.0      0.6                                                                     e 
Consultant ServlceslTmg.    0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0                                                                    O  rz
Duties & Taxes              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      1.7
Base Cost                  4.2    55.4       6.7    64.0      0.0    19.7                                                                     0
Physical Contingency       0.4      5.5      0.7      6.4     0.0      2.0
Price Contingency          0.2      3.0      0.6     7.2      0.0      3.4
Total Project Cost         4.8    64.0       7.9    77.6      0.0    25.1
_ i2B.:;B+.::. . . ...2                        ..  .... ................. .:.* ..



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Pyong Taek Terminal Extension
Implementation Schedule
Year:    1990       1991        1992        1993        1994
Ouarter: 1 2 3 3 |    2 3 _  4  1 2 3  4 1          2 3  4 1 2 3  4
1. ENGINEERING
BASIC DESIGN
DETAIL DESIGN                                  a I -  a a    I a. a a a a          ..
2.1PROCUREMENT
FOREIGN-                                 --      im 
LOCAL                                    ----T~                 .U 
3. CONSTRUCIONl
TANK FOUNDATION                    _ _  _      .      . _
TANK BODY                                              
PIPING                                                                 ..
EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION                        _  _  -     r  - 
4. TEST AND OPERATION
arp\sads\w48539a
_ PHASE I
*   PHASE II



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Mid-zone Trunkline
Implementation Schedule
Year.    1989       1990        1991        1992        1993
Quarter: 1 2 3                       3  4 12  3  4 1 2 3  4
BASIC PLAN                                   0 ed of Oct
BASIC DESIGNLo  c
12
DErAlL DESIGN                                                                                  ;
PERMISSION                                                                     9
SECURED CONSTRUCTION SITE                     o-            _         _    __
MATERIAL PROCUREMENT               l                             ---         t           I
CONSTRUCTION OF PIPE AND/                                                              3
SUPPORT FACILITY
START-UP
COMPLETION
aipNsaft\w48539b



ANNEX  9
KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Seoul Metropolitan Area Pipelines
Implementation Schedule
DESCRIPTION            Year:   1989        1990        1991       1992        1993       .994       1995
Cur0:1 2 3  4  1 2 3  4 1 12 13 4  1 2 3 14 1 12 3_  1 2 3  4 1 2 3 
Quarter:       21                                                                     4 4123412D412
BASIC DESIGN
EXISTING                  , 7                          -
ADDITIONAL                                                ' .
DETAIL DESIGN & PURCHASING
EXISTING                                         12
ADDITIONAL                                         ----
CONSTRUCTION OF PIPING
EXISTING
Pan Wol - Pun Dang                                                   12
Pun Dang - Dal ChN                                           -              4]     
Kyung In - 11 san                                                   i12
ADDITIONAL
Pyong Taal, - Pun Dang                                  ,     9          4
Soas - Hap Jung                                                                10
CONSTRUCTION OF STATION
EXISTING
Pun Dang, Pyong Chon                                   '0             12
Dae Chi                                                    1      
Others (40G/S & VWS)                                                              ,
ADDITIONAL
Su Won, Oh San, Hap Jung                                                 a    ------ -10
TEST OPERATION
EXISTING
Pon Wol - Pun Dang                                                  1 
Pun Dang - Del Chl~
Kyung In - 11 can
ADDITIONAL
Pyong Task - Pun Dan V1
Soas - Hap Jung                                                                                       ii '
COMMERCIAL OPERATION                                                              1 
COMPLETiON OF WORK                                                                                          :1r
srpksadskw4853Oe



- 59 -
ANNEX 10
KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENY
(US$ million)
IBRD              Year and              Estimated Disbursement               Dlsbursement Profile (%)
Financial Year    Semester             Semester          Cumulative       Region L.a         Subsectors Lb
(Project)
1992          Decamber 31,1991
June30,1992             10                 10                 3                  3
1993          December31,1992           8                18                  8                 10
June30,1993             14                 32                 18                22
1994          December31 1993           8                40                 31                 34
June 30,1994            12                 52                42                 50
1995          December 31,1994         14                66                 54                 62
June31, 1995            10                 76                61                 70
1996          December 31,1995          8                84                 71                 78
June 30,1996             6                 90                78                 86
1997          December31, 1996          6                96                 86                 94
June30, 1997             4                100                92                100
La Refers to the Standard Disbursement Profile for energy projects In the Asia region
Lb Refers to the Standard Disbursement Profile for the Gas Subsector In all regions



- 60 -                     ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
KOREA,
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
The Pyong TGek LN( Import Trminal
A. Some Background on LNG
1.       The normal way of transporting natural gas over long distances is by high
pressure pipeline. However, because of great water depths and long distances, this
mode of transport is not feasible for ocean crossings. In such cases the best way is
to liquefy the gas by refrigeration at an export terminal, transport the cold liquid
across the ocean in special ships, unload and warm up the liquid at an import
terminal, and so vaporizing it back to a high pressure gas for onward land
transmission.
2.       Liquefied Naiural Gas (LNG) is transported and stored at atmospheric
pressure (in fact, for safety reasons, at slightly higher than one atmosphere) with a
boiling point at a cryogenic temperature of -160°C. Special materials have to be
used to contain and insulate a liquid at such low temperatures, and these have been
developed over a number of decades of experience so that safe transport and storage
of LNG can be fully assured.
3.       LNG trade started thirty years ago. To date, over 10,000 shipments have
been safely completed worldwide with the current international trade at 50 mnillion
tons per year. Trade is forecasted to grow to between 80 and 130 million tons per
year by the year 2010. Eight countries export LNG: Abu Dhabi, Alaska, Algeria,
Australia, Brunei, Indonesia, Libya and Malaysia.
4.       Korea's source of supply of LNG is from Indonesia, which, in 1990, is
exporting 19 million tons of LNG per year, of which 2.4 million tons is being
received at the Pyong Taek terminal.
B. The Pyong-Taek Terminal
5.       Several sites have been considered in Korea for LNG import terminals.
The first one was built near Pyong Taek, on the west coast of Korea, some 60 km
south of Seoul. A second one is planned at Incheon, and a third on the south coast.
6.       The Pyong Taek terminal was completed in 1986 at a total cost of Won
440 billion ($600 million at historical exchange rates). It is on a 615,000 m2 land site
adjacent to, and operationally integrated with, the KEPCO power station. The LNG
terminal and power station are situated at the tip of a 5 km long by 1 km wide



- 61-
Page 2 of 4
peniisula. The terminal has open water on three sides and on the landward side is
backed by hills which effectively cuts it off from a hazard point of view, from the
land behind.
7.       The existing facilities on the site include an unloading jetty, a connecting
trestle pier, LNG pipelines, four 100,000 m3 LNG tanks, boil-off gas handling,
pumping vaporizing, and gas send-out metering into large transmission pipelines.
The site is completed fenced off and its perimeter patrolled by security guards.
C. Consi ruction
8.       To be completely sure of containment, LNG storage tanks are not only
made of special steel and concrete materials, but are double walled and are
protected by a number of special safety devices. To minimize boil-off of the LNG
liquid, the walls are heavily insulated. The foundations are specially constructed to
avoid freezing of the ground beneath and are designed, for the Korean situation, to
withstand earthquakes.
9.       Korea w.s unfamiliar with LNG technology in the early 1980's, and
relied on the experience of other countries for the technical design of the Pyong
Taek terminal. For the tanks (the most expensive components of the terminal) they
chose a proven design from the French company Technigaz, who, as licensor for the
technology, supplied the special materials and supervised construction. Additional
technical supervision was contracted fiom the Japanese who have the greatest
experience in the world in the operation of LNG import terminals. Gaz de France
and its consultant daughter-company Sofregaz helped train KGC staff in LNG
technology and terminal oper.tions.
D. Environmental
10.      Because LNG itself is such a clean fuel and no chemical processing is
necessary, an LNG terminal is noticeably clean and offers few polluting
environmental problems compared with other types of industrial sites.
11.      An environmental assessment was carried out in 1981 as part of the
planning of the Pyong Taek site and covered a wide range of issues under the
headings of natural environment, life environment, and interaction with the social
and economic activities in the region.
12.      Two points deserve note here. First and foremost was safety. The
experience of the world's LNG industry, represented by the French and Japanese
technical advisers to KGC, was all important in supporting the adherence to good
engineering standards and safe operational procedures. A visit by Bank staff in July
1990 confirmed that the terminal was built to very high standards, incorporating
safety features of the best of the LNG import terminals operating overseas. Hazard



- 62 -                      ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
analysis for LNG sites is built in, now, to the safcty zones derived from American
Petroleum Institute and British standards: minimum distances both within the site
aind to outside residential and industrial activity were established to restrict activities
around the LNG ships moving in the approaches to or tied up at the unloading jetty.
13.      Risk assessment of a LNG terminal site constructed to these standards
identifies the main operational risk to be associated with the transfer of LNG from
ship to shore, and special safety precautions are taken during this operation.
Calculations show that a safety zone needs to be established in an area at least 500
m from this point. At the Pyong-17Eak terminal, this point is 600 m from the shore,
1.3 km from the landward perimeter with the power station, and on the sea side,
some 2 km from the nearest shoreline to the south. The layout is an acceptable one.
14.      The second point was the disturbance created to the local traditional
fishing industry. This was not a question of pollution but of denying access to the
area offshore for safety reasons. The process of buying the fishing rights from local
fisherman proved to be a lengthy one, with a settlement between the fishermen's
union and the Korean government not reached until January 1989. The total
compensation, for the less than 500 fishing families involved, came to about Won 11
billion ($16 million). A few additional claims from the families of fishermen, who
believe they were left out of the earlier settlement, have been lodged with the local
authorities and are being processed through the local courts.
D. Operational Record
3.       Since the start of operation in 1986, the Pyong-Taek terminal has
received 8 million tons of LNG with highest annual throughput of 2.4 million tons in
1990.
16.      The delivery schedule of LNG from Indonesia has been on time with the
exception of a delay in one shipment by a day because of bad weather at Pyong-
Taek. That is an exceptionally good record.
17.      All send-out supply requirements have been reported to have been met.
Tht safety record is also good with no LNG spillage incidents and the site's
operational records showing only one lost time accident in over 2 million man hours.
E. Capacity Constraints
18.      The facilities at Pyong-Taek have been designed to match a long term
contract with the Indonesians of 2 million tons per year. In fact, the individual
components can handle higher tonnage rates.



---
- 63 -                      M.NEX 11
Page 4 of 4
19.      The single unloading berth is handling about 40 shipments a year. Since
the turn-around time is about 26 hours, that jetty could easily handle up to 100
shipments a year equivalent to 5.5 million tons LNG per annum. Greater tonnages
would require the construction of an additional unloading berth. Exception for the
occasional oil delivery to the nearby KEPCO power plant and a possible import of
LPG sometime in the future, the LNG ships are the only large ships in Asan Bay off
Pyong-Taek, so that delivery tonnages well in excess of 5 million tons LNG per
annum would pose no real problems to the escort of ships in the Bay.
20.      The amount of tank storage is currently 4 x 100,000 m3, equivalent to 0.2
million tons or 35 days of supply. The volume of storage required is calculated from
the peak rate of demand and chance of ship delay, both of which require strategic
judgements. According to the formula used by KGC, four tanks, as installed now,
are sufficient to support a throughput of 3 million tons per annum, one extra tank is
required to match a throughput up to 4 million tons per annum (Phase 1 extension)
and another tank required to bring the throughput up to 5 million tons per annum
(Phase 2 extension).
21.      The amount of vaporizing capacity is designed to match the demand for
send-out gas including spare reserve capacity to ensure supply in the event of
breakdown in one unit. Presenitly, there are 3 x 90 tons/hour of capacity for the low
pressure supply to the nearby power station, 2 x 130 tons/hour for the high pressure
supply to the trunkline, and an additional fast-response vaporization of 2 x 68
tons/hour to meet the peak loads of the high pressure trunkline. Phase 1 extension
is planned to increase the vaporizing capacity with another S units and Phase 2 with
a further 9 units. The more the demand shifts to the domestic heating market, the
more the need for extra vaporizers to meet peak winter loads.
F. Choice of engineering for the proposed extensions
22.      As discussed above, the design of LNG tanks has developed over the
years to a very high standard of engineering which can effectively gua antee the
containment integrity for a 20-30 year lifetime. Only a few companies in the world
have the technical know-how and experience to fulfill this guarantee, and it is
therefore necessary that KGC turns to one of these companies to help in tank
construction.
23.      It is also appropriate that, since Pyong-Taek has experienced no problem
with the design of the existing tanks (except for one leak problem which was cured
at the commissioning stage), they should continue with the same technology and turn
to the same technical consultant company, Technigaz, which holds the licence for the
design. Technigaz, in the same way as for the previous construction, will need to
oversee the design, the materials specifications and procurement, and construction.
KGC are now very familiar with the costing of LNG tank construction and are in
position to negotiate a satisfactory contract.



- 64 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
KOQRkA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Natural Gas Transmission System
1.  The transmission system of the Korea Gas Corporation links the LNG
receiving terminal near the coastal town ci Pyong Taek with the thermal power
stations at Pyong Taek and Incheon and with the distribution systems of the seven
city gas companies operating in the Seoul-Incheon region. It consists of: (a) a grid
of high pressure (70 kg/cm2 G) and medium pressure (10 kg and 20 kg/cm2 G)
underground, cathodically protected welded steel pipelines, of sizes varying from 20
inches diameter to 26 inches diameter totalling about 250 km in length; (b) 20
stations for monitoring and controlling gas flows and pressures at critical locations;
and (c) a center (at Ansan) equipped with SCADA and computers for the
monitoring and control of the entire system operations. The pipeline grid comprises;
Pyong Taek-Incheon trunk line operating at 70 kg/cm2 G; ring main around Seoul
metropolitan area and the pipeline spur connecting it with the trunk line, both
operating at 20 kg/cm2 G and; the pipeline linldng the trunk line with the spur to
Seoul, operating at 10 kg/cm2 G.
2.  This system was commuissioned in December 1986 with the commencement of
gas supply to the two power stations at Pyong Taek (1,400 MW) and Incheon (1,150
MW). The supply to city gas distribution systems in the Seoul-Incheon region
commenced early 1987. While the total sale has been pegged at 2 million tons per
year (the contracted import), the share of city gas has risen from 120,000 tons in
1987 to 571,000 tons in 1990 and commensurate with the large conversion program
to reduce urban pollution it is projected around 1.3 million tons by 1995. As of
December 1990, about 1.16 million city gas customers in the categories of household
cooking and heating, commercial cooking and heating, space heating of large
buildings and industrial usage are being supplied with natural gas. The space
heating of large buildings accounts for the highest (45%) share of the sale followed
by household usage (34%), industrial usage (16%) and commercial cooking and
heating (5%). Due to the high proportion of sale to households, whose demand
peaks sharply during meal times, the city gas load factor (average day sale/max. day
sale) is around 38% which would lead to poor utilization of the system capacity were
it not for the freedom to transfer the loads to and from the thermal plants without
any penalty. Through such freedom in gas despatching, a capacity utilization of
about 75%, has been achieved.
3.  As indicated by the pressure/flow profiles, the peak demand of city gas
customers in the Seoul-Incheon region is rapidly approaching the limit of the
transmission system's capacity. As an interim measure, the pipeline linking the
Pyong Taek-Incheon trunk line with the spur to Seoul ring main is being upgraded to



- 65 -                     ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
operate at 20 kg/cm2 G. After its completion (scheduled October 1991), the system
should be able to meet the city gas demand of 900,000 tons projected for 1992,
whereafter major expansion of the system would be needed to cater for further
increases in demand.
4.   The system is efficiently operated. The unaccoun ted for gas is around 1.3%
which is within the acceptable limit. Cathodic protection records indicate full
orotection of pipelines frow corrosion. The trunk-line Operations Departmeat
headed by a General Manager is responsible for all maintenance operations rc!ating
to the transmission system. Gas despatch and control and operational planning of
the system is the responsibility of the Operations Control Department, also headed
by a General Manager. Both the general managers report directly to the Vice
President Operations. Technical support and research and development (R&D)
support is provided by the Technical Development Department and R&D Center.
These department are adequately staffed with competent engineers and technicians.



- 66 -
K O R E A                              Annex 13
Page 1 of 3
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
KGS's Past Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1987-90. Income Statement
(Won billion)
1987     1988      1989      1990
Revenues                                   312       392       345       445
Operating Expenses
LNG Purchases                             246       277       248       360
Labor                                       3         4         5         8
Operations and Maintenance                  6         8         8        10
Head Office                                 5         6         8        10
Depreciation                               13        23        24        25
Total Operating Expenses                  272       318       293       413
Operating Income                            40        74        52        32
Other Income (Expense)                     (21)       (3)       18        (2)
Less:
Interest                                   33        37        25        22
Income Tax                                  0         2        12         4
Net Income                                 (14)       33        34         4
Operating Ratio                            87%       81%       85%       93%
Rate of Return on NFA                      18%       21%       14%        9%



- 67 -
KOREA                                 Annex 3
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT                      Page 2 of 3
KGS's Past Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1986-90. Balance Sheets
(Won billion)
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                            8        12        55       47         0
Accounts Receivable                      28        29       54        71
LNG Inventory                   7        20        10       11        16
Other Stocks                    3         6         7        6         1
Other                          12         4         4        5         2
Total Current Assets          28        70       104      123        90
Gross Fixed Assets             128       338       406      424       476
Less: Accumulated Dep.           1        13       38        62        87
Net Fixed Assets               127       325       368      362       389
Work in Progress               249        76        11        13        0
Other Assets                     5         6         8       10        12
Deferred Charges                72        81        60       40        35
Total Assets                  480       558       551      549       526
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable (LNG)                    9         5       14        13
Accounts Payable               14        13        10       23        15
Short Term Borrowings                     4         0        0         0
Others                          6         6         0        0         0
Current Portion of LTD         22        36        35       30        35
Total Current Liab.           42        67        S0       67        63
Long Term Debt                 394       462      401       348       338
Less: Current Portion           22        36       35        30        35
Net Long Term Debt            372       426       366      317       303
Other Liabilities                2         2        38       31        24
Eauitv
Paid In Capital                64        76        79       83        85
Retained Earnings               0       (14)       17       51        50
Total Equity                  64        62        97      133       136
Total LIABILITIES & EQUITY      480       558      551       549       526
Current Ratio                    0.7       1.0      2.1       1.8       1.4
Debt:Debt & Equity              86%       88%       81%       72%      71%
Accounts Receivable (days)                 33        27       57        58
Stocks (days of imports)                   30        13        16       16
Accounts Payable (LNG)                     13         7       20        13
Depreciation (% of avg GA)                5.4%     6.2%      5.7%      5.6%



- 68 -
KO R E A                              Annex 13
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT                      Page 3 of 3
KGS's Past Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1987-90. Sources ond Application of Funds
(Won billion)
1987     1988      1989      1990
Operating Income                           40       74        52        32
Depreciation                               13       23        24       25
Subtotal                                  53       97        76        57
Less:
Interest                                 33        37        25       22
Principal                                46       107       109       42
Income Tax                                0         2        12        4
Dividends                                           1         1        0
Increase in Working Capital              25         6         7       23
Other deductions                          10       (54)     (11)       4
Subtotal                                 114       98       143        94
Add: Other Income                         (21)      (3)       18        (2)
Funds Available for Investment            (83)      (4)      (49)      (39)
Investment Program                        38         2        20       39
Financing Gap                             120        6        69        78
Financed by:
Capital Increase                          12        3         3         2
Borrowings                               117       46        56       29
Cash Increase                               8       43       (10)      (47)
Cash Beginning of Year                      6       12        55        47
Cash End of Year                           14       55        45         0
Self Financing Ratio                   -220%    -162%    -242%    -101%
Debt Service Coverage                     0.7       0.7      0.6       0.9



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
KGC'S PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A. Income Statement. 1990-2000
(Won billion)
Ant- . -. ;            FFORECAST
<.~& >@s 1991      1S92      1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998      1999      2000
Revenues                       44$       450       473       702       804       915     1,142     1,190     1,276     1,355    1,450
Operating Expenses        ..
LNG Purchases           ;.i             329       340       498       562       631       775      794       837       874       918
Labor                    ,                 8        8         9        10        t1        15        16       16        16        17
Operations and Maintenarc..     10        12        13       20        25        30        39       43        48        54        60
HeadOffice                .      0        11       12        19        23        28        37       40        46        51        57
Depreciation                    2$       24        24        26        32        40        43        71       99        99       101           I
TotalOperatingExp;nses        413".    383        398       573       653       739       909       964     1,046     1,094     1,155
Operating Income                           67       75       129       151       176       233       226      229       261       295
Other Income (Expense)       :.             0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
Less:
Interest                                 25        41        63        58        46        67       66         8         4         0
IncomeTax                       4        10         8        17        23        33       41        40        55        64        74
Net Income                        4       31        25        50        69        98       124       119      166       193       221
Operating Ratio                 9         85%      84%       820%      81u0      81%       80°h      81%      82°%      81%       80%
Rate of Return on avg NFA       &       17.7%/o   21.2%     34.4%    32.4%     30.4%     37.9°b  20.3%       14.5%     17.5%    20.6%
I- -D
o 2s



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
KGC'S PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
B. Balance Sheet. 1990-2000
(Won billion)
Aci.:g-               FORECAST
:~90 .   1991      1992      1993      1994     1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000
ASSETS
* ., ....  .... . 
Current Assets
Cash                                    40        80       90        68        97       69        62       143       258      374
Accounts Receivable     :      1        46        52       72        82        95       113      121       137       151      168
LNG Inventory             ;             14        14       20        23        26       32        33        34        36       38
Other Stocks                             1         1        2         2         3        4         4         5         5        6
Other                 ..                13        14       15        16        17        18       19        21        22       24
Total Current Assets         89       114       161       199      191       238      236       239       340       472      610
Gross Fixed Assets            4    Bg 476         476      568       719       870       870     1,983    1,983     1,983     2,076
Less: Accumulated Dep.                  111       135      161       193       233      276       347       446       546      647
Net FixedAssets               389       365       341      407       526       637      594      1,635    1,536     1,437     1,429
Work in Progress                0       180       386       654      755       834     1.052       50        62        88        0
Other Assets                             13        14        17       21        23       34        38        43        46       52
Deterred Charges                         18
Total Assats                 62 .:.  690         903     1.276     1,493    1,732     1.916     1,962    1,980     2,043     2,091
> :
x
o 4S



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
KGC'S PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
B. Balarnce Sheet. 1990-2000
(Won billion)
FORECAST
1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
LIABILITIES & EQiJUY
Current Liabilities
AccountsPayabe(LNG)                     6         7        10       t1        12       15        15       16        17       18
AccountsPayable(Con)                   36        41       72        51       40        43        22        2         5        1
Short Term Borrowings
Other
Current Portion of LTD                 52        51       70        82       102      109       140      158       176        0
Totai Cuffent Uab.                    95        99       151      143       153      168       178      177       198       19
Gross Long Term Debt                   438       582       805      924     1.029     1.051      987      856       717      546
Less: Current Portion                   52        51       70        82       102      109       140      158       176        0
Net Long Term Debt                    385       531      735       843      927       941      847       698      542       546
Other UabIlities                        12
Equity
Paid In Capital          *            117       166      234       282      328       359      371       373      378       379
Retained Eamings       ,  Z            81       107      156       225      323       447      567       733      926    1,147
Total Equity                         1 198     273      391       507      651       807       938     1.106    1.304     1,526
Total UABILiTiES&EQUrITY       8        690       903    1.276    1,493      1.732     1,916    1,962     1.980    2,043    2.091
Current Ratio                  -         1.2      1.6       1.3      1.3       1.5       1.4      1.3      1.9       2.4      32.5
Debt:Dbt&Equlty          . 71*          69%       68%       67%      65%       61%      57%       51%      44%       35%      26%             >
Accounts Recelvable(days)  M "g          38        40       37        37        38       36        37       39       41        42
KEPCO                                   22        22       22        22       22        22        22       22        22       22
Distribution Companies                  75        75       75        75       75        75        75       75        75       75
Stocks(daysof Imports)                   15        15       15        1S        15       15        15       15        15       15 °
Accounts Payable (LNG)                    7         7        7         7         7        7         7        7         7        7          4
Depreciation (% of avg GA)              5.0°0%   5.0%      5.0%     5.0%      5.0%      5.0°h  5.00%    5.0%        5.0%      5.0%



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
KGC S PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C. Sources and Application of Funds. 1990-2000
(Won billion)
FORECAST
1<Op     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
Operating Inconie                        67        75       129      151       176      233       226      229       261      295
Depreciation                             24        24        26       32       40        43        71       99        99      101
Subtotal                  .             91        99      155       183      216       276      297       328      360       396
Less:
Interest                                25        41       63        58       46        67        66        8         4        0
PrincIpal                               32        52       51        70       82       102       109      140       158      176
IncomeTax                               I 1C       8        17       23       33        41       40        55       64        74
Dividends                                0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
Increase in Working Capital            (30)        1        (5)      35       27        20        31       38        14       24
Other deductions            b            (5)      (4)       3         4        2        11        4         5         3        6
g m                                                                                                             rs.
Subtotal                                33        99      128       190      190       242      251       246      243       280
Add: Other Income                         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
FundsAvailableforlnvestmenI              57        (0)      27        (7)      27        35       46        82      117       116
InvestmentProgram                       180       206      359       253      230       217      111        12       26         6
FinancingGap                            123       206      332       259      203       182       65       (70)      (91)    (110)
Financed br.
Capital Increase                        32        49       68        47       47        31       12         2        5         1
BorrowIngs                             148       197      274       190      186       124       46         9       20         4
ChangeinCashiBalance            7        56        40        10      (22)      29       (28)      (8)       81       115      116
Cash BegInr;ng of Year                    0        40       80        90       68        97       69        62      143       258    X
Cash End of Year                         56        80       90        68       97        69       62       143      258       374
Self Financing Ratio      A             32%        0%        7%h     -3%       12%      16%h      42%     687%     446%    2011%
Debt Service Coverage                    1.6      1.1       1.4      1.4       1.7      1.6       1.7      2.2       2.2      2.3



-73-
KQRtEA                       Annex 15
Page 1 of 2
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Assumtions for- KGC's Financial Projections
Income Statement
1.   The volume of gas sales reflects the present contract entered into
with Pertamina (two million tons per annum for 20 years from 1987
onwards) as well as the new contracts to be entered into with
Pertamina or Petronas for additional supply and spot purchases.
Details are in Annex 1.
2.   The apportionment of gas sales between KEPCO and e-ve distribution
companies was provided by KGC and is also found irh Annex 1.
3.   The cost of imported LNG reflects Bank's forecast for curde prices at
W126,878/ton. Technical losses are set at 1% of throughput.
4.   The selling price of gas is based on the purchase price of LNG plus a
fixed margin of W39.03/m3 in 1991. The margin is projected to
increase by 5X p.a. starting in 1992 in line with expected domestic
inflation.
5.   The cost of La_bor is assumed to increase in accordance with KGC's
forecast of employment. The basic annual cost per staff was taken to
be W10.8 million (KGC estimate) adjusted for inflation (7X p.a.).
6.   Qoeration and Maintenance costs and Head Office expenses are assumed
to increase at the same rate as volumetric sales, adjusted for
inflation (71 p.a.), beginning with the budget estimate for 1991.
7.   Degreciation is taken at 51 of average gross assets in operation.
8.   Interest on existine loans and on orolects under construction is
calculated based on actual or anticipated loan terms (see Attachment
to Annex 15 for details)
9.   The rate of Income Tax is assumed to remain at 25X of net income.
,Balance Sheetl
i..  Cash is derived from the Sources and Application of Funds Statement.
11. Accounts Receivable reflect KGC's current policy of providing 60 days
from billing date to the city gas companies; hence accounts
receivable are taken to be 75 days of consumption equivalent.
Regarding KEPCO, gas consumption for the first 10 days of each month
is due at the end of the month. Consumption during the following 10
days is due on the sixth of the subsequent month, and consumption
during the last 10 days is due by the sixteenth of the following
month; hence, accounts receivable are taken to be 22 days of
consumption equivalent.
12. LNG Inventor is taken to be 15 days of consumption,



- 74 -                        Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
12. LNG Inventory is taken to be 15 days of consumption.
13. Other Stocks are assumed to increase in accordance with sales volume
and inflation.
14. Gross Fixed Assets are derived from KGC's investment program.
15   Work in Progress is transferred to Gross Fixed Assets on completion
of each project component. The IBRD-financed projects are assumed to
remain under work in progress until 1994; the second LNG terminal and
the Honam, Yongnam and Southern regions pipeline projects are assumed
to be completed in 1997 and the subsidiary pipeline project is
assumed to remain in progress until the year 2000.
16. Other Assets are assumed to increase in accordance with staff levels
and adjusted for inflation.
17.  Deferred Charges comprise mostly deferred exchange gains (losses).
They are assumed to be nil from 1992 onwards.
18. Accounts Payable for LNG are taken to be seven days of consumption
equivalent, in line with the terms of the present contract.
19. Accounts Payable for Consumables are taken at 20% of capital
expenditures.
20. Long Term Debt is derived from the Debt Schedule found in the
Attachment.
21. Paid-in Capital is expected to increase in accordance with KGC's
projected fund raising program.
22. Retained Earnings are derived from the projected Income Statement.
No dividends are expected to be distributed during the forecast
period.
Sources and Application of Funds
23. Principal ReRavments on existing and proposed loans are based on the
actual and anticipated terms of these loans. The IBRD loan has a
maturity of 15 years including a grace period of five years. Other
new loans have a maturity of seven years including a grace period of
three years. The Petroleum Business fund has a maturity of 10 years
including a grace period of five years.
24. Funding for KGC's Investment Program is projected in accordance with
KGC's projected fund raising program as follows: 32% to be sourced
from the Petroleum Business Fund; 34% from domestic commercial banks;
8% from foreign commercial banks; 6% from 1991-94 from IBRD; and 20%
from capital increases. The interest during construction of Won
281.4 billion is assumed to be funded from i(GC's internally generated
funds.



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
DEBT SCHEDULE
(Won billion)
FORECAST
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Outstanding Loans
KDB Loan In Won
Opening                  40.90    26.30    13.65     4.25    0.75     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Disbursements
Repayments               14.60    12.65     9.40     3.50    0.75     0.00
Closing                  26.30    13.65     4.25     0.75    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Interest                  3.53     2.10     0.94     0.26    0.04     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
PEDCO Loan
Opening                  192.90   190.15   172.98   145.65   109.98    72.15    36.32    14.91  3.66     0.74
Disbursement;
Repayments                2.75    17.17    27.34    35.67    37.83    35.83    21.41    11.25   2.92
Closing                  190.15   172.98   145.65   109.98    72.15    36.32    14.91  3.66     0.74     0.74
Interest                  9.58     9.08     7.97     6.39    4.55     2.71     1.28    0.46     0.11     0.04
KDB Loan In Foreign Curren                                                                                                          I
Opening                   7.83     7.83     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00                     -
Disbursements
Repayments                0.00     7.83
Closing                   7.83     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Interest                  0.67     0.33     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
KEB Loan
Opening                  22.69    17.63    12.57    7.50     6.25     5.00     3.75    2.50     1.25     0.00
Disbursements
Repayments                5.06     5.06     5.06     1.25    1.25     1.25     1.25    1.25     1.25     0.00
Closing                  17.63    12.57     7.50     6.25    5.00     3.75     2.50    1.25     0.00     0.00
Interest                  1.36     1.02     0.68    0.46     0.38     0.30     0.21    0.13     0.04     0.00
TEI and KelioO Loans
Opening                   0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0O.      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Disbursements    .                                                                                                                x
Repayments
Closing                   0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Interest                  0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
BNPIBFCE Loan
Opening                  57.54    47.95    38.36    28.77    19.18    9.59     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00                   t >
Disbursements
Repayments                9.59     9.59     9.59    9.59     9.59     9.59     0.00                                            O
Closing                  47.95    38.36    28.77    19.18    9.59     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
interest                  4.35     3.56     2.77     1.98    1.19     0.40     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
DEBT SCHEDULE
CWon billion)
FORECAST
1991    1992     1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Proposed Loans:
Petroleum Business Fund
Opening                    0.00    10.00   111.02   251.36   344.49   423.87   481.51   459.31   409.03   340.14
Disbursements             10.00   101.02   140.34    93.13    79.38    59.64    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Repayments                 0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     2.00    22.20    50.27    68.90    84.77
Closing                   10.00   111.02   251.36   344.49   423.87   481.51   459.31   409.03   340.14   255.36
Interest                   0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Domestic Commercial Banks
Open!ng                    0.00   116.54   159.86   271.53   329.81   365.15   351.97   341.80   292.39   249.78
Disbursements            116.54    43.32   111.67    74.93    58.18    25.61    39.32   8.40    18.85     4.33
Reryments                  0.00    0.00     0.00    16.65    22.84    38.79    49.49    57.81    61.46    67.08
Closing                  116.54   159.86   271.53   329.81   365.15   351.97   341.80   292.39   249.78   187.03
Interest                   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Foreian Commercial Banks
Opening                    0.00    21.15    66.76    72.47    76.93    98.79   116.94   106.12    90.75    71.50
Disbursements             21.15    45.61    5.71     7.48    31.40    28.50     0.60    0.54     0.73     0.00
Repayments                 0.00     0.00    0.00     3.02     9.54    10.35    11.42    15.91    19.98    20.06
Closing                   21.15    66.76    72.47    76.93    98.79   116.94   106.12    90.75    71.50    51.44
Interest                   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
I.B.R.D. Loan
Opening                    0.00     0.00    7.00    23.00    37.00    54.00    60.30    62.60    58.90    55.20
Disbursements              0.00     7.00    16.00    14.00    17.00    10.00   6.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Repayments                 0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     3.70    3.70     3.70     3.70     3.70
Closing                    0.00     7.00    23.00    37.00    54.00    f0.30    62.60    58.90    55.20    51.50
Interest                   0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total                                                                                                                              >
Opening                    322      438      582      805     924    1,029    1,051      987     856      717                     x
Disbursements              148      197      274      190     186      124       46        9      20        4
Repayments                  32       52       51       70      82      102      109      140     158      176                      n
Closing                    438      582      805      924    1,029    1,051     987      856     717      546
Interest                    19       16       12        9       6        3        1        1       0       0
I.D.C.                       6       25       50      49       40       64       65       7        3        0
0 t
H



ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(.3 vale data hI 19O0 pse)
l19l    1992    :ts       1994    1996   l8    l997    1ow8    1999   20o    2001    2002    2003    2004    2006    20O0    2007   2z0e    2009    201o
IhcmntaI Gm Conewnptlon
th luaand tons t oNfL
agt, Gaa COnsar..As:
Redntla                               90      178     300      391      607      507     S07      607     607      807      S07     807      507     S07      607      607     607      607     S07      607
Conmnrca                              63      106      1ee     197      23       233     233      233     233      233      233     203      233     233      233      233     233      233     233      233
Industl"                              21       42      83      109      161      le     161      l61     161      lot      161     la"      161     161      161      11e    161       161     181      le
Sub& t                                182      326     640      697      901      901     901      901     901      901      901     9(-1    901      901      901      901     901      901     901      901
Power Secort lIEPCO:
CoenbIned ob Powr PutB                  -      620    1,240   1,240    1, 0    1.240    1.240   1.240    1.240    1,240   1.240   1.240   1.240    1.240    1.240    1.240    1,240    1.240 1          ,240
Conbm  d How & Power Plants             -      360    1,070   1,420    I.,      1,420    1       1420     1,420    1.420   I,42.)   1.420   1,420    1,420    1.420    1.42D    1,420    1,420    1.420    1.420    1,420
Summn Plants                           46    ()  (1306)   1A36          (97)    (97)    (6        (9      (976     )    (8  (976)   (976)   (976)   (976)   0976)   (976)   (976)    (           (976)   (97t)
Subtoa                                 45       (a)   1,004   1,34    1.684    1,684    1.684    1.SS4    1.684    1.684    1,684   -,.64    16854   1,684    1,684   1.684    1.684    1.684    1.684    1,684
Total hcWMetal Conaunption            227      319    1,583   Z,051    2.68    z6.8      Z,86    2,65    Z58S    z686    Z686   2,s86    2.686    Z685    2.686   z265    2Z,65    Z86    z28           2.686
Econonmtc 'Valu.   e Cm)
ReadntW                              42.8    69.1   106.7   141.6   186.3   190.2   194.1   196.0   201.9   206.8   204.6   203.9   203.0   202.0   201.1   201.1   201.1   201.1   201.1   201.1
COmmercia                             19.9    29.6    43.7    63.4    64.6    6e.5    68.7    70.8    72.9    7S.0    74.6    74.0    73.6    72.9    72.4    72.4    72.4    72.4    72.4    72.4
Induatit                               6.1    10.8    20.0    27.0    40.9    42.2    43.8    45.0    46.3    47.7    47.4    47.0    46.7    48.4    48.1    46.1    481               48,1    46.1    48.1
Subtota                               8.8   11.A8    170.4    222.0    91.8   299.1   306.4   313.8   321.1   328.4   326.7   324.9   323.1   321.3   319.6   3196    319.6   319.6   319.6   316.6
Conb <led-ots Powr Plant.               -    207.8   477.4   473.7   479.9   483.6   488.1   489.8   493.5   496.0   497.2   496.5   499.7   499.7   601.0   502.2   602.2   602.2   S02.2   602.2                  1
Combned mHeat PowerwPants               -    146.6    48.0    6A.4   680.8    69.3   S99.2  6o7.8   617.7   O262    626.2   626.4   626.1   e24.8   624.8   624.8   626.2   626.2   626.2   626.2
Stem  Turblnee                        6.3  (146.)  (189.0)  (196.7)  (161.6)  (168.2)  (164.8)  (171.6)  (175.1)  (184.8)  (183.2)  (181.6)  (180.0)  (178.4)  (176.8)  (176.8)  (176.8)  (176.8)  (176.8)  (178.6)
Subtotl                               8.3   227.4   716.4   848.4   909.1   914.7   920.6   92. 1    933.1   937.4   940.3   942.3   944.8   946,2   949.0    960.2   961.7   961.7   961.7   961.7
Tota Benett a(a Cool)                77.1   336.9   8867  1,068.6  1,200.9  1,213.8  1,226.9  1,239.8  1,284.2  1,286.9  1,266.9  1.207.2  1,268.0  1,207.6  1,268.6  1,269.8  1,271.2  1.271.2  1,271.2  1,271.2
r n   80rb)                         94.6   314.1   912.9  1.146.0  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9  1,321.9
COSTS (I mIllon)
KOChwestmrnn^                       179.0   248.7   163.5    48.4
Coty-Gw  co', >   hwe48nenta         166.7   139.6    77.4   142.4   126.9
Conum  wnasment                     34ko.0    26.0   386.1   312.4   285.8
SubtoWta (Cant     h                WM6?    685.3   716.3   603.2   411.7
Operating Cot                       A10.4    22.1    32.0    37.7    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.5    41.5    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6
LNG knotuCo#a                        48.2    626    238.4   327.1   425.2   442.9   46o0.   478.4   496.3   614.3   613.7   6132    612.7   61Z4    612.I   616.6   619;    622.0   626.3   630.1
Totl Coat                           782.2   769.9   966.6   68.0   678.4   484.4   5021    619.9   637.8   668.8   666.2   664.7   564.2   653.9   683.6   667.0   660     664.1   6e7.8   671.6
NETBENEFITS                                   _  _..                                                          i
Eonormlo Rate olRetur:   r  Zz 
) ___ _ _ _ -                             g___X0 'Z
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,    r Z4^                                                                                                                                      ><~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0O



FUEL PRCE P ON
99t      o 1992    iX3    1904    196    1996    1997         I9go     1939    2D00    2D01    2002    2003    2004    2006    2006    20?    2D0              2009    20o
A Be Cm
CnWOIFO6)9bbO                           21.7     18.6    *6.       17.5    18.1      16.9     19.8    20.6    21.6   2a3         2.1      21.9    21.7    21.6    21.3    21.3    21.3    21.3          21.3    21.3
CoWI(FOS)phon)                            40       39      40       39       40       40       41       41       41       41      42       42       42       43       43       43      43       43       43       43
Pebtobum Poduct IMoLm
tWls prim)
LPG                                     44      123      III      11e      12D      126      131     137      142      148      14?      145      I44     143      141      141      141      141      141     141
olmiON                                 2D3      174      169      166      170      178      186     193      260      2D8      206      204     202      200      19      190      199      199      199      199
Fu0a0t                                 136      116      106      It0      114      119      124      128     133      138      137      '36      135     134       32      132      132      132      132      132
onG(Shm)FOB                              178      128      114     119      123      129      136      140      146      162      :61     149      148      146      146      146      145     146      148      146
Frght                              38       38       39       40       41       42       44       46      46       47       48       49       60       62       63      64       568      67       69       60
CIF                               212      166      163      S69      164      171      176      186    1t2       199      199      199      198      192    t19       Ig      201      2D2      204      206
S. Aftomadvo Scenwb
cQude 9 (FOB) P16S. 30.0    20.0    30.0                           30.0    3D.0    30.0       30.0    30.0    30.0      30.0     3.D0     30.0    30.0    30.0      30.0    30.0    30.0 2o0.0    30.0          30.0
CoeI(0      o)                            4   46       4    8  46  46                 48       48       48           46       46           46       48       46       46       46      48       48       46       46
Ptroleum Products (Mon)
LPG                                    199      199      1g9      199      199      120      199      Igo     199      199      199      199      199     199      199      199      199      199      199     199
DIes on                                278      278      276      276      276      276      276     276      276      276      275      276     276      276      276      276      276      276      276     275
Fuel 00                                163      183      13       163      183      183      183      183     183      183      183      183      183      183     183      163      183      183      153      183
LNG f&ftw   FOS                          241      2D4     204      204      204      204      204      204      20      204      2D4      204      204      204      204      20       204     204      204      204
Fregt                              36       38       39       40       41       42       44       46      46       47       48       49       60       62       63      64       66       67       69       do
CIF                               279      243      24       246      246      24?      248      249      260     261      262      264      266      266     267      269      260      201      283      264
NETB0at  VALUES OF Mg    mt of LNO)
A BS Co
InetdendaJ                             437      368      366      362      36       375      383     391      38       406      404     402      400      366      397      367      397     307      397      397
Cmnwn,rw                               316      282      7e3      271      277      286      296     304      313      322      320      317     316      313      311      311      311      311     311      311
Induuul                                290      268      241      248      254     2602      271     279      2e8      266      294     292      260      26       288    2a8        28      266      286      286
PoWW Sect
Cab -z  Power lmt                               383      3t6      382      3e7     390       392     396      396      400      401      402     403      403      404      406      405     40       406      405
Comb*tld Hem &Pow   Piun                        407      400      401      409     416       422     428      436      441      441     440      440      440      440      440      44"     441      441      441
Sten Twbme                             186      I69      148      161      186      162      169     I7T      183      ISO      186      186     164      183      181      181      181     1e8      le8      18s
S. Alteim ee Senaro
Readentw                               611      611      biI      611     611       611     611      611      611      611      611     611      611      611      611      511      611     611      611      611        t
C_nmcid                                402      402      402      402      402      402      402     402      402      402      402      402     402      402      402      402      402     402      402      402      GQ
ledueI                                 373      373      373      373     373      371      373      373      373      373      373     373      373      373      373      373      373     373      373      373       D tl
Po" Setor
C         _M*ad-0yde Poe Plnt                   392      392      32      302      392      392      3S2      X2       32       392     392      3        3C2      3C                392     392      3        32        °  7
Crnbled How & Po    Runto                       470      470      470      470      470      470     470      470      470      470     47D      470      470      470      470      470     470      470      470
Stem Turbke                            261      261      261      281 26    1      261      261      261      261      261      261     261      261      261      261      261      261     261      261      261



- 79 -
ANNEX 17
KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. English Translation of Environmental Assessment Document
2.  Environmental Assessment Summary
3. The Korean Gas Corporation Act
Enforcement Decree of the Korean Gas Corporation
Articles of Incorporation of Korean Gas Corporation
4. Korean Gas Corporation Act, Revision May 12, 1986
5. Revision of Korean Gas Corporation Act, Translation dated
January 22, 1991
6.  Korean Language original of the above
7. Gas Utilization Study
8. Maps of the Pyong Taek Terminal Area.



KOREA
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Korea Gas Corporation
Organization Chart
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PRESIDENT & C.E.O.
SECRETARIAL   lSTNING
|   DEPARTMENT   |                                AUDITOR
PUBLIC INFORMATtON                                   AUDITIlNG
DEPARTMENT                                       DEPARTMENT
EXECUTIVE YI,E PRESIDENT
00
____________ ________  I tQALITY  CONTROL &  
PLAN4NING & CONTROL       ADMINISTRATION &         PURCHASE 3 SALES                                     CNTUTO
DIVISION           ACCOUNTING DIVISION            DI VISION             OPERATION DIVISION |       C ONS     C
PLANNING                 GENERt. AFFAIRS           MARKETING                  OPERATION CONTROL       CONSTRUCTION
DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT                DEPARTMENT                DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT      ACCOUNTIV^ & FINANCING    LGAS RESOURCES           - TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT   'LAND AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT               DEPARiMEN.               DEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT
PROJECT COORDINATION     MATERIALS                                          -R & D                    METROPOLITAN
DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT                                          TRAINING CENTER          CONSTRUCTION OFFICE
EMERGENCY PLANNING                                 ' PT. LNG TERMINAL        CENTRAL REGION
DEPARTMENT                                          OFFICE                   CONSTRUCTION OFFICE
' K.I. TRUNKUNE
OFFICE
a0pXsads\w48539c



IBRD 22793
\                 )                                            .                    I )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t sPt ( ) 1  
S I;   1  :.           !                ,      *               \  9                               _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nt 1Al.
t ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ 1 'Q                                                     /                    f, ,M  f            Ari. 0
\   .   Il.ln     '          t}Sdbgg\(                1          0                    __~~~~~~~~f1'     _ _ __M/
K           \   ia qlid('                   \        '  ' ' '/'                'Ae ot
-                                             P'.   w1  n>a
IfAcholl                 (hg     gl,,gd     FAdi ho3PLng        j.ng                    /          3()                                       PLAN
*. :;ongIn       .I' >Ilf _V  3ff 
,         ile   L)('.<.l~n!"n  Idt'l L.   
t.Il" _h,dn .                    
\ ' a w I'd~~~~~~~ngha . 
I AhC7lSl0Af          .N4g.nSW    
LNG RIC(UVINc           Mcg,an
RfMINAl                                       0                   Pundng_
,  (12 (00
o~~~~~~~~~~~,,n~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~I
P)'ONCJAIK
LNG R-CEII/ItvC,                                                                               4,
37 00'                   TERMINAL                    ,                                                                4 '
Anmh.an                    Ptong.ek                                       '                                        00'
Songhnan                                                                '    *1
A.                  I                            ,/       'ry                          '      '     ' 1          --    /'   -'- ,/           '-
"Ch,Cn1n a nTh'
REPUBLIC Of KOREA                        I            r                                                     I'.
GAS SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT    . Sushin                                                                                        ,
LNG RECEIVING TERMINALS AND                                                            -
GAS PIPELINES                                                     '                          -                  4
Pf -d proj,fI                                                   hoch l                  _         ('ngi
-          f I f$ropos"i Suo,u,l XM?I n.,1 1'1ipeline,                    /,                                                     -
Pr cpo-cdf Mid Zl,ne P,r. 'inv ,
/   ammyon/
36 3(:            1-               ffn/                                                                                                                     i' t()
*        x,f,ng I N( . lorminal                                                                             'elI    ba',  .a*:
1'N,      (                       (4      5,' th,-I gn,'.1 c n.-  r Iih,
(3     Pldmied LN(  lem -,q,nval                                                                            ,,'-,1.,l a. ,bhde
A      WI%(                                                                                                 (--       7h, S     n
_. .onnh (r (U, B,un1 arre.                                  1                 Idnf laelon    p    7    /         -nap  h ni6r  - h,-
Sp,-, a                B Cd osn,                                                                    / u1   ,dge-n- n' .; 4(' b'ra "ai 
0             I(                  t 20    3(1                  K                                          ;i.jr b,    ,:; a"
12' 303                                                              127'00
IAMNIARN 1941



