Report No. PID11165
Project Name             Ghana-Promoting Partnerships with (@)
Traditional Authorities
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Non-Sector Specific
Project ID               GHPE71399
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Implementing Agency
Address REGIONAL COORDINATING
COUNCIL/ASHANTI COUNCIL
Ashanti Regional Coordinating
Council/Asanteman Council
Address: Regional Administration,
P.O. Box 38, KUMASI, GHANA
Contact Person: Nana Boakye-Ansah
Debrah/Mr. Y. Kwarteng
Tel: 233-20 5115116,
233-51 22503
Fax: 233-51 22503
Email: cpptap@ghana.com
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        April 24, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      May 7, 2002
Bank Approval Date       May 21, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The overriding goal of the government of Ghana's development strategy for
poverty reduction is to eliminate hard core poverty and thus bring about a
general improvement in the welfare of Ghanaians. The Government's
strategy emphasizes among other things, improved access by the rural and
urban poor to basic public services such as education, health care, water
and sanitation and family planning services. While the Government of
Ghana, has over the years spent considerable resources aimed at improving
the welfare of Ghanaians through economic and social policies targeting
the poor, recent poverty analysis indicate the impact on deprived and
rural sections of Ghana has been relatively minimal and is still a major
concern.In education for example, there is a significant gap in primary
school enrollment between urban and rural areas. It is also believed that
at the primary level, 24t of the eligible school going population are not
receiving formal education. On health, health indicators remain far below
the expected international standards. The underlying causes include high
illiteracy rate and prevalence of poverty.   About 60-70w of the country's
health problems relate communicable and preventable diseases, and HIV/AIDS
is also beginning to pose a major threat to the country's labor base. In
effect, while the Government's spending on the social sectors has been
high (about 1/3 of total allocation), most of this has been for wages and
salaries (+/-90%) and relatively little for capital spending.Therefore, to
implement its strategy for poverty reduction more effectively on the
ground, the government realizes that it must enhance its relationship with



non-governmental organizations, and other entities which similar goals to
the government'sOne such entity is the Traditional Authorities. Every
hamlet, village, town, suburb or city in Ghana has or is supposed to have
a chief, queen mother or traditional head person. These Traditional
Authorities are, among other things, custodians of community land and
hence the key stakeholders in the orderly and sustainable development of
their communities. The notable involvement of the Traditional Authorities
in socio-economic development activities is believed to date back to the
18th Century. The periodic cultural festivals, traditional court systems
and voluntary community labour, all led by the Traditional Authorities,
serve as information dissemination, ages-old governance systems which are
aimed at improving the social development of the community with or without
support from the Government.
2. Objectives
The main purpose of the LIL is to test in a limited number of areas
approaches to: (i) substantively integrate and improve deprived remote and
rural communities' (led by the traditional authority) involvement, and
(ii) help focus the contributions/influence of traditional authorities in
socio-economic development. The proposed LIL will test what enhanced
roles, chiefs, queenmothers and other community opinion leaders should
play in, (i) the decentralization efforts of central government, (ii) the
control and spread of diseases such as HIV/AIDS, (iii) closing the gap in
the provision of, among other things, improved health, equitable and
quality basic education in deprived rural and remote areas, and (iv)
determining the role of cultural heritage preservation in the
socio-economic development of a community.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed LiL is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
of March 2000 and the goal of assisting the Government of Ghana implement
its hardcore poverty reduction strategy more effectively. It is therefore
necessary for the Bank to support opportunities to collaborate with
development-oriented organizations such as the traditional authorities who
are the forefront of non-government financing of development activities in
deprived, rural communities that would contribute to general welfare of
the community. Helping improve the welfare of the rural communities
requires relatively large amounts of investments in education
infrastructure, capacity building for the traditional authorities, etc
which would require the Bank's support.
4. Description
Activities to be financed include, capacity building, including design and
implementation, for traditional authorities in the area of basic health
issues particularly factors that cause ill health, increased awareness on
HIV/AIDS and assistance to communities and households to ensure good
health will be emphasized. There would be support to identify a more
structured and sustainable method of partnership with government to help
improve access to quality basic education in deprived rural areas,
including support to set up Traditional Authority incentive schemes to
retain teachers, scholarship schemes for pupils, and provision and
rehabilitation of primary school infrastructure in deprived rural and
remote areas. Support would also be provided to help communities better
preserve their cultural heritage, development of educational activities in
schools on cultural heritage and linkages to environmental degradation, a
- 2 -



study on private sector-community business partnerships, and updated
inventory of cultural heritage artificats/practises, and awareness
creation on eco-tourism, for example. The proposed LiL will also be used
to develop the financial and project management capacities of the
Traditional authority's secretariats and to also facilitate the reform of
the traditional courts (dispute resolution) system to enhance good
governance. Advocacy modules to be used by traditional authorities on
various issues; design and institution of a Community Health Register;
training on developmental issues for traditional authorities; office
equipment, vehicles; and a monitoring and evaluation plan would also be
financed
Total Financing Required
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $0.50
IBRD
IDA                      $5.00
Total Project Cost       $5.50
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  1. Social & Environmental RisksThe will be no
significant environmental and social risks emanating from implementation
of actvities under this LIL. Since the proposed project will not finance
any large scale infrastructural investments such as the rehabilitation or
new construction of hospitals, roads, clinics, no significant
environmental and social risks are expected. Within the pilot communities,
the role proposed for the traditional authority under this LIL is not new
or would not be perceived by the community as unbecoming and hence would
not lead to the de-stoolment of the traditional authorities with its
consequent social upheaval. Enstoolment and destoolment of traditional
authorities in the pilot communities is also immune from political
influences, and therefore social risks as a result of this project would
be negligible.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Kofi-Boateng Agyen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 5337-3118/233-21 229681
Fax:  5337-3004/233-21 227887
-3-



12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 3, 2002.
-4-



