23862
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/30/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GHANA                                Project ID: P071399
Project: Promoting Partnerships w. Traditional  Task Team Leader: Kofi-Boateng Agyen
Authorities
Authorized to Appraise Date: July 25, 2002    IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 10, 2002              IDA Amount ($m): 5.00
Managing Unit: AFTPS                          Sector: Other social services (50%); General industry
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) and trade sector (25%); Health (25%)
Status: Lending                               Theme: Other human development (P); Other
financial and private sector development (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The main purpose of the LIL is to test in a limited number of areas approaches to: (i)
substantively integrate and imprbve deprived remote and rural communities' (led by the
traditional authority) involvement, and (ii) help focus the contributions/influence of traditional
authorities in socio-economic development. The proposed LIL will test what enhanced roles,
chiefs, queenmothers and other community opinion leaders should play in, (i) the
decentralization efforts of central government, (ii) the control and spread of diseases such as
HIV/AIDS, (iii) closing the gap in the provision of, among other things, improved health,
equitable and quality basic education(including the rehabilitation of existing classrooms) in
deprived rural and remote areas, and (iv) determining the role of cultural heritage preservation in
the socio-economic development of a community.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed LIL includes four components: (i) provision of infrastructure for basic
education, teacher incentive schemes and improved enrollment schemes; (ii) advocacy
modules for traditional authorities to promote the control and spread of diseases such as
HIV/AIDS; (iii) capacity building for traditional authorities and their development
secretariats to ensure fuller and informed participation in community and national
development activities; and (iv) studies to support preservation of the community's cultural
heritage, its linkages to environmental preservation and possible employment generation.
As indicated, the activities proposed to be financed include, capacity building, including
design and implementation, for traditional authorities in the area of basic health issues



2
ISDS
particularly factors that cause ill health, increased awareness on HIV/AIDS and assistance to
communities and households to ensure good health will be emphasized.
There would be support to identify a more structured and sustainable method of partnership
with government to help improve access to quality basic education in deprived rural areas,
including support to set up Traditional Authority incentive schemes to retain teachers,
scholarship schemes for pupils, and provision and rehabilitation of primary school
infrastructure in deprived rural and remote areas.
Support would also be provided to help communities better preserve their cultural heritage,
development of educational activities in schools on cultural heritage and linkages to
environmental degradation, a study on private sector-community business partnerships, and
updated inventory of cultural heritage artificats/practises, and awareness creation on
eco-tourism, for example.
The proposed LiL will also be used to develop the financial and project management
capacities of the Traditional authority's secretariats and a study to facilitate the reform of the
traditional courts (dispute resolution) system to enhance good governance.  Advocacy
modules to be used by traditional authorities on various issues; design and institution of a
Community Health Register; training on developmental issues for traditional authorities;
office equipment, vehicles; and a monitoring and evaluation plan would also be financed.
Components:
Health (US$0.50M)
Education (US$3.OM)
Capacity Building (incl. M&E) US$0.9M
Cultural Heritage (US$0.5M)
Total Project Costs $7.9M
Total Financing Required US$5.OM
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Under the Education component, it is proposed to rehabilitate existing primary school buildings in
select pilot communities. The area selected for this pilot is the Ashanti Region and the school sites
are not in proximity to any protected sites. The school sites already exist and have titles, and thus
there would be no need for additional or new land acquisitions and/or loss of economic activities
due to land take.No new school block constructions would be undertaken under this LIL. However,
if the Borrower decides during project implementation to construct a new classroom block,
project-specific environmental and social assessments acceptable to the Bank would have to be
undertaken prior to any construction.The list of the primary schools to be rehabilitated uder the
proposed LIL can be found in Annex 11 of the PAD. The cultural heritage component proposes to
fund a study to assist communities preserve their cultural heritage.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: As indicated under I.A.3, project funds would be used to support activities which would
not impact negatively on the environment and social configuration of the people in the pilot
commtnities. It is expected that no measurable adverse impact would emanate from implementing



3
ISDS
activities under the project and that the project would rather bring marked benefits to communities
in and improve the environment of the pilot sites. Since the project would not involve any
large-scale community infrastructural developments, except the rehabilitation of existing school
facilities and teacher residences, intervention that would be in or proximal to protected areas (parks,
reserves, water bodies, sacred groves, cemetries, etc.), natural habitats and cultural heritage, use and
application of agrochemicals and other chemicals, displacement/dislocation/physical resettlement,
loss of assets and income, loss of access (to land, property and services), or compensation payments
OP4.01, OP 4.04, OP 4.36, OP 4.09, OPN 11.03, OD 4.20, OP/BP 4.12 will not be triggered. Other
Bank Safeguard Policies including OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams), OP/BP/GP 7.50 (Projects in
International Waters) and OP/BP/GP/7.60 (Projects in Disputed Areas) will not be triggered since
the project sites and activities have no link at all to dams, international waters or disputed areas
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                 C Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                     O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                              i Yes * No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
1.    Social & Environmental Risks
There would be no significant environmental impact emenating from implementation of
activities under the proposed LIL. None of the WB safeguard policies will be triggered.
Since the LIL will not finance any large-scale infrastructural investments such as rehabilitation or
new construction of hospitals, roads, clinics, no significant environmental and social impacts are
expected. The proposed project will however finance the rehabilitation of existing classroom
blocks, playgrounds, and pit-latrines and it is anticipated that this intervention will not create any
dust or noise levels that could be injurious to human health. New 1-BR teachers' residences will
be constructed in some of the pilot communities and for these the traditional authorities who
serve as custodians for community lands have allocated lands for this purpose.
Within the pilot communities, according to Ashanti custom, all lands are owned or held in trust
for the people by either the traditional authority, as head of the community, or by heads of a
family or a clan. The custom is for traditional authorities, in consultation with the people, to



4
ISDS
designate and demarcate community land for social purposes, such as, for schools, clinics,
community meeting/durbar halls, funeral grounds, playgrounds, marketsetc. for which payment
of compensation never arises. There is no individual or group claim to any of the sites selected
for schools and teacher quarters. Since the project is not dislocating or displacing any individuals
or groups OP/BP 4.12 will not be triggered. Also there will be no loss of access to resources and
income, as well as assets as a result of the proposed LIL.
The project would finance a study to do an inventory of cultural heritage properties with the aim
of identifying ones with potential for protection and possible income-generation development
options, such as eco-tourism. The project would not undertake any physical or aesthetic
developments at the cultural sites to be inventoried, and the intervention would lead to no land
take, displacement, or forceful ejections of people from the sites. Therefore, OPN 11.03 will not
be triggered and no loss of assets/access to resources/income or compensation issues will arise.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No safeguard policies will be triggered as a result of the proposed LiL.
See 1 above.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
There would be no long term potential impacts. See I above.
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not applicable because there would be no significant impact.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Collaboration and consultation with Ghana's Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), District Assemblies
(particulary District Environmental Management Committees), Community Development Committees
(CDC) and Traditional Councils who will monitor and evaluate performance and impact of the project
and submit quarterly and annual reports to the implementing agencies.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
District Assemblies, Regional Coordinating Councils, Traditional Authorities, EPA, CDC, CBOs through
meetings, workshops, durbars, reports.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
J S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or



5
ISDS
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.             Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Implementation of activities under the proposed project will not trigger any of Ghana's environmental
safeguards
Signed and submitted by      Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:            Kofi-Boateng Agyen                          10/29/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                 Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Charlotte S. Bingham                    10/29/2002
Sector Manager/Director:     Demba Ba                                    10/29/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH     _ '                  MSnEMAP  _ sHOWCAs    '



