                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No:ICR000095




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             ( IDA-37430 IDA-H0560 )




                                       ON A

                           GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                US$ MILLION 5.05

                           (SDR 3.41 MILLION CREDIT)

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                        FOR

               PROMOTING PARTNERSHIPS WITH TRADITIONAL
                             AUTHORITIES PROJECT

                                   May 31, 2007




Finance and Private Sector Development (FPD)
Private Sector Unit
Africa Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            ( Exchange Rate Effective Date May 30, 2007)
                  Currency Unit = GHC Cedis
                     GHC 1.00 = US$ 0.10770
                       US$ 1.00 = GHC 9,285

                     January 1 ­ December 31


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AATC                     Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Council
AC                       Asanteman Council
AM                       Appraisal Meeting
ARCC                     Ashanti Regional Coordinating Council
CBNFSP                   Community Based Nutrition and Food Security
                            Project
CBOs                     Community Based Organizations
CBRDP                    Community Based Rural Development Project
CDF                      CountryDevelopmentFramework
CPAR                     CountryProcurementAssessmentReport
CINRMP                   Community Based Integrated Natural Resource
                            Management Project
CPAR                     CountryProcurementAssessmentReport
CPPR
DAs                      Country Portfolio Performance Review
                         District Assemblies
DCD
DCEs                     District Coordinating Directors
CDF                      District Chief Executives
DPCU                     Country Development Framework
DPP                      District Planning Coordinating Unit
DRI                      Detailed Procurement Plan
ERCC                     District Response Initiative

FMR                      Eastern Regional Coordinating Council
GAIT                     FinancialManagementReport
GARFUND                  Government Accountability Improvement Trust
GES                      Ghana Aids Response Fund
GHS                      Ghana Education Service
GIMPA                    Ghana Health Service
GOG                      Ghana Institute of Management & Public Administration
HIV/AIDS                 Government of Ghana
                         Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired
                            Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR                      Implementation Completion Report
ICT                      Information Communication Technology

IDA                             International Development Association
ISSER                           Institute of Statistical Social & Economic Research
JSS                             Junior Secondary School
LAP                             Land Administration Project
LIL                             Learning & Innovation Loan
MDU                             Manhyia Development Unit
M&E                             Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                             Management Information System
MoFEP                           Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NGOs                            Non-Governmental Organizations
NHIS                            National Health Insurance Scheme
OG                              Oversight Group
PAD                             Project Appraisal Document
Pas                             Parent Associations
PIP                             Project Implementation Plan

PPN                             Project Procurement Notice

PP                              Procurement Policy

PlUs                            Project Implementation Units
PLWHA                           People Living With HIV/AIDS

PRP                             Procurement ReformProposal

PTA                             Parent Teacher Association
PMU                             Project Management Units

QCBS                            Quality & Cost Based Selection
PPTAP                           Promoting Partnership for TAs Project

SBD                             StandardBiddingDocument

SOE                             StatementofExpenditures
SMCs                            School Management Committee

SP                              School Performance

SPN                             Specific Procurement Notice
SSS                             Senior Secondary School
STIs                            Sexually Transmitted Infections
STWSP                           Small Town Water Supply Project
TAs                             Traditional Authorities
TCs                             Traditional Councils
TOR                             Terms of Reference




           Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
         Country Director: Mats Karlsson
          Sector Manager: Dileep M. Wagle, Acting
      Project Team Leader: Kofi-Boateng Agyen
        ICR Team Leader: Papa Demba Thiam

                                   GHANA PROMOTING
      PARTNERSHIPS WITH TRADITIONAL AUTHORITIES PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Figures: Cumulative Disbursements Over The Project Life......................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
 Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 29
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 35
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 44
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Promoting Partnerships
Country:                Ghana                   Project Name:          with Traditional
                                                                       Authorities Project
Project ID:             P071399                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-37430,IDA-H0560
ICR Date:               06/07/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       GHANA
Original Total
                        XDR 3.7M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 3.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
ASANTEMAN COUNCIL
Akim Abuakwa Traditional Council
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/04/2002    Effectiveness:         07/28/2003         07/28/2003
Appraisal:             08/05/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/10/2003    Mid-term Review:       03/29/2004         06/01/2005
                                     Closing:               06/30/2006         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                          35                35
Primary education                                              65                65


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                              Primary          Primary
Education for all                                            Secondary        Secondary
Other communicable diseases                                  Secondary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                            Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katrya Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Mats Karlsson                    Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:           Dileep M. Wagle                  Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:      Kofi-Boateng Agyen               Kofi-Boateng Agyen
ICR Team Leader:          Papa Demba Thiam
ICR Primary Author:       Papa Demba Thiam



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives were to test approaches to integrate and improve TA
involvement and help focus their contributions to socio-economic development in their
communities.
  The proposed LIL was meant to test enhanced roles that Traditional Authorities should
play in:


                                             ii

  (i)   the decentralization efforts of central government;
  (ii) the control of the spread of diseases such asHIV/AIDS;
  (iii)  closing the gap in the provision of, among other things, improved health, and
equitable and quality basic education (including the rehabilitation of existing classrooms)
in deprived rural and remote areas; and
  (iv)     determining the role of cultural heritage preservation in the socio-economic
development of a community. Activities under the proposed project will pilot the
changing role of the traditional authorities in development issues in two regions inGhana.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
n/a

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval             Target       Completion or
                                               documents)            Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Partnership methodology identified and validated
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Partnership methodology used in at least two other communities by end of
Indicator 2 :   project.

Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                approval            Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)        Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   At least 20 individual traditional authorities ( including sub-chiefs and
                queenmothers) participate in Health outcomes workshops
Value           2 traditional authorities
(quantitative   led healthy outcomes       20 T.A. involved



                                                iii

or Qualitative) awareness creation.
Date achieved 07/30/2003                   06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               ·       At least 50 percent of traditional leadership in pilot districts would
Indicator 2 :  participate in the enhancement of basic health and the fight against HIV/AIDS.
               ·       50 percent of activities, include HIV/AIDS and health issue
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               Traditional leaders would engage in at least four community development
               training programs
Indicator 3 :  Monitoring and evaluation system developed and being implemented by end of
               year 1.
               All volunteers in pilot districts would become involved in health and education
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               Annual community development/business plans would be developed with the
Indicator 4 :  participation of TAs and MDAs

Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Area and sector specific scaling up methods and manuals developed
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Training in use of manuals in two sectors including health and education
Value
(quantitative



                                                 iv

or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                            Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived          DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                         (USD millions)
  1     10/20/2003      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.51
  2     05/28/2004      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.63
  3     12/14/2004      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.68
  4     06/22/2005      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             3.88
  5     07/26/2005      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             4.17
  6     01/28/2006      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             4.61



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

In line with its quest for alternative decentralized development approaches, the
Government of Ghana (GOG) has embarked on an attempt to set up partnership
programs with active civil society organizations such as the Traditional Authorities
(TAs). The Bank supported the Government's decentralization policy under its
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2000-2004, and in this context the
Promoting Partnership with Traditional Authorities Project (PPTAP) was approved
as a pilot project that would test the Government's ability to support decentralized
social and economic development initiatives in remote areas. The Government
decentralization strategy was not very explicit and well articulated.

The context was one of dual governance systems.

TAs were upholding traditional practices in a modern state while trying to make
their institutions relevant to the country's formal political and economic
governance. The Government was expecting TAs to rule within the framework of the
local government system and lead efforts to develop communities with minimal
reliance on the Government budget. The Asanteman Council was already involved in
health, HIV/AIDS awareness programs, education, scholarship schemes, cultural heritage
preservation and private sector development. The Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Council
(AATC) was already involved in health, cultural heritage and environmental
activities but the contribution of the TAs had been considerably reduced over the previous
few decades due to institutional decay and general decline in economic activity in the
country.



1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objectives were to test approaches to integrate and improve
TA involvement and help focus their contributions to socio-economic development
in their communities. The following were the project's key performance indicators:

A.      Outcome/Impact indicators:

    · Partnership methodology identified and validated
    · Partnership methodology used in at least two other communities by end of
        project.




                                              1

    B.     Output/Outcome Indicators:

Methodology dissemination/validation

    · At least 50 percent of traditional leadership in pilot districts would participate
       in the enhancement of basic health and the fight against HIV/AIDS.
    · 50 percent of activities, include HIV/AIDS and health issues, would be
       carried out by TAs by the end of project.
    · At least 5 percent of traditional leaders in pilot districts would participate in
       the enhancement of primary school enrolment and retention rates by end of
       project.
    · At least 10 percent increase in girls' enrollment/completion rates in basic
       education would be achieved by end of project.
    · 20 percent increase in teacher attendance in selected schools by end of project

Capacity building

    · Traditional leaders would engage in at least four community development
       training programs
    · All volunteers in pilot districts would become involved in health and
       education training programs
    · Annual community development/business plans would be developed with the
       participation of TAs and local government.

Replication and Scaling Up

    · Area and sector specific scaling up methods and manuals developed
    · Training in use of manuals in two sectors including health and education
    · Monitoring and evaluation system developed and being implemented by end
       of year 1.

The success of the project would be determined partly by the number of traditional
authority figures that played a more effective role in educational, health, private sector
collaboration and other developmental activities, through financial and in-kind
contributions. Learning was to take place partly through documenting the response of the
TAs to capacity-building activities and enhanced advocacy roles. The pilot was also
expected to document the TAs' contributions to the provision of social services and to the
Government's decentralization activities. A baseline assessment of the role of TAs in
development activities was to be carried out at the beginning of the project and a
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system would track experience.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and associated outcome indicators were not revised.




                                           2

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The primary target group was the TAs. These are the community-based traditional local
governance bodies recognized by law, comprised of kings, paramount chiefs, chiefs, queen
mothers, and headpersons. There were over 300 such TAs in the communities identified
for this pilot project. The pilot project targeted the communities, towns, villages and
selected rural deprived areas of the Asanteman Council (AC), and Akyem
Abuakwa Traditional Council (AATC). A sum of US$4.5 million equivalent was
allocated to the AC and US$0.5 million equivalent to the AATC.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
 The following is the summary of the project components.

(i)      Health AC (US$0.27 M equivalent); AATC (US$0.15 M equivalent): The
         proposed project sought to strengthen the capacities of the TAs in the
         Asanteman Council areas, and the Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Council
         areas to participate in community development. This would be done through
         regular workshops and seminars for the key senior figures, community
         volunteers and community members. The activities to be supported would
         focus on building the capacities of the TAs in the area of basic health
         including HIV/AIDS, to enable them to provide better assistance to
         communities and households through prevention and care. Community health
         registers would also be designed and instituted in the project communities
(ii)     Education. AC(US$2.90M); AATC (US$0.10M).. This component would focus
         on (a) the rehabilitating basic primary education facilities in select areas in
         the AC community and (b) design of a partnership method between TAs and
         government in the provision of quality basic education. The TAs constituting
         the Asanteman Council had on their own initiative set up mechanisms to
         achieve this goal and IDA support was sought to assist in creating a more
         structured and sustainable partnership with government. Assistance would
         also improve incentive schemes with the objective of retaining teachers in
         these remote areas, scholarships for primary school pupils, and improved
         enrollment. The project would also support the strengthening of the AATC
         Secretariat, and their review of the state of basic education in their
         communities and propose actions to improve it.
(iii)    Capacity Building AC (US$0.64 m equivalent); AATC (US$0.20 m equivalent):
         The project would seek to improve (a) the financial and management capabilities
         of the two councils' respective secretariats and (b) the capacities of the TAs who
         are members of these two councils, on decentralization and community
         development issues.
(iv)     Cultural Heritage AC (US$0.24 m equivalent); AATC (US$0.10 m equivalent):
         Support would be provided to both councils to carry out cultural heritage
         programs through development of educational activities/curriculum in schools, or



                                             3

         private sector-community business partnerships such as in eco-tourism. Support
         would also be provided for updating the inventory of cultural heritage practices
         and to review the traditional law courts systems with a view to reducing the
         incidence of chieftaincy disputes, land litigation, etc. The study would serve to
         identify needs for revision, codification, and dissemination of traditional laws,
         and identify ways to increase the effectiveness of traditional law courts.

1.6 Revised Components

The components remained the same in the AC, but there was a slight modification in the
education component of the AATC as a result of harmonizing PPTAP and the Community
Based Integrated Natural Resource Management Project (CINRMP). The environment
component was moved to CINRMP and funds were reallocated from the AC component and
within the AATC components.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
The project concept was proposed by the Asantehene in consultation with the Ashanti Regional
Minister Preparation work started in 2001 with a US$200,000 equivalent Japanese grant and
assistance from the Norwegian Government.             The pre-appraisal, including studies and
identification of target interventions, was carried out in 2001 and appraisal was completed by
end of 2002. The RVP approved the project in March 2003 and it became effective in July
2003.

Adequacy of Government Commitment. The project was to be initially financed under a
standard credit, but this triggered public debate, in the context of the installation of a new
Government, about why the Government should take a loan that was to benefit only one TA
while the burden of debt service would be on the whole nation. Hence the project was re-cast as
a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). The initial debate affected the Government's level of
commitment in project design, which led to a less than optimal level of interaction between local
Government and TAs during project implementation.

Soundness of the Background Analysis in terms of content. Since this was by definition a
learning project, lessons in design would be derived, the background analysis was limited in
scope and depth. In retrospect it may have been desirable to assess further the mechanics of
decentralization, in particular the effectiveness of coordination arrangements between the TAs
and the DAs, and the financial management capacity of the TAs.

Assessment of risks: The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) highlighted risk
factors such as the commitment by the TAs to the partnership approach, potential


                                                 4

Chieftaincy disputes, and the motivation and qualification of the implementation team. It
could also have fruitfully have addressed in more detail structural risks that might affect
sustainability, such as the effectiveness of the coordination arrangements and TAs
capacity for financial management.

Assessment of project design: The proposal to develop and implement the project was
consistent with the CAS as a response to Government priorities on poverty reduction and
decentralization. As such, interventions designed were consistent with development priorities.
As stated, the project design could have further addressed structural issues of decentralization
and sustainability, and some lessons might have been derived from initiatives such as in the
Bafokeng in South Africa. However, the project had unique features and in any case its
objective was precisely to test approaches to strengthening decentralization through sustainable
partnership between Government and TAs in the delivery of selected social services. A weak
point in practice was the lack of a functioning monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
through most of its life, especially since the project called for a documentation of the response
of the TAs to capacity-building activities and enhanced advocacy roles, and the TAs'
contributions to the provision of social services and decentralization. However this was
not a design issue as such.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Factors outside Government control: there was some implementation risk because of
the weak project design and management capacity of the TA's. This risk was managed
through the use of Project Implementation Units (PIU) to strengthen the AC secretariat
and set-up the AATC one while implementing the project on behalf and under the
oversight of the TAs s. The lack of adequate links between TAs and District Assemblies
(DAs) was a further significant risk but this was one which the project actually aimed to
address directly.

Factors subject to Government control: The Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MoFEP) and the RCCs had adequate implementation capacity to help the PIUs
and the Secretariats of the Traditional Councils (TCs). MoFEP, Regional Coordinating
Councils (RCCs) and TCs were accountable for implementation, for consistency with the
PAD and DGA. MoFEP and RCCs were to participate in supervision missions and
monitoring and evaluation to help implement corrective measures.

Factors under control of implementing agencies: The lack of management experience
of the TAs was a constraint. This could have been addressed more proactively through
capacity development in the Secretariats and improvement of capacity for coordination
with local Government and more regular consultations with the Oversight Committee
(OC) and stakeholders at national, regional, district and community levels.

Implementation efficiency. In principle implementation was helped by its consistency
with the national development agenda, the comprehensiveness of some intervention


                                                 5

packages and a participatory approach allowing a degree of integration with other
implementation agencies.


Social Influence of the Asantehene and Okyehene. A key factor in implementation of
the project at the community and district levels was the high level of social and
customary influence of the Asantehene and Okyehene. Stakeholders surveyed explained
their willingness to contribute because of their high regard for the Asantehene and
Okyehene whose TCs have well established structures of power and authority.

Implementation delays/changes. Disbursement fell considerably behind schedule over
2003-2004, when it was only about 25 percent of target, but it caught up substantially by
mid-2005. Initial delays were caused by lack of adequate coordination of project and
local Government programs, inaccessibility of the communities and delays in the
payment of counterpart contributions.

Lack of Effective Synchronization Between Project's Interventions and DAs'
Programs. Despite efforts to ensure participation most local Government officials still
felt that they did not have sufficient comprehension of the project nor were sufficiently
involved in preparation, particularly the award and supervision of contracts.

Inaccessibility of some communities. Some of the contractors were unfamiliar with the
remote location and unprepared for the conditions. Supervision of construction by the
TAs and the communities was difficult due to poor accessibility. For example, Funsua
LA Primary and the Asesewa classrooms were eventually completed and furnished, and
Seneso teachers' bungalow and toilets were ready, but old school buildings were
demolished before new ones were built and the furniture provided was left out of doors.
Several communities, such as the Hwhereto, complained that no kindergarten had been
built to feed the primary school. The Wasabeampa community in the AATC had no
housing for teachers and it was difficult to retain those who could not get regular
transport to the school.

Delays in the payment of counterpart contributions. Delays in the payment of
counterpart contributions affected payments to some of the contractors. Discussions
revealed that in addition to the inadequate commitment of some of the DAs, the delays
had been caused by time taken to release the Common Fund to the DAs. For example, in
the Fanteakwa DA, formation of the Tender Committee and approval/confirmation of the
DCE delayed award of contract for construction of the school building until March 2006.
Some districts had multiple commitments which interfered with payment of their
contributions

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Review meetings and periodic reports were expected to be vehicles for disseminating
lessons learned and assessing progress. However, as stated, the M&E system was not put



                                             6

in place as quickly as planned and did not function adequately. Performance indicators
selected were not the most appropriate and baseline data were collected too late.
Indicators were being tracked close to end of project but mainly in terms of inputs and
outputs rather than outcome. More significantly, delays in setting-up the system
prevented feedback of lessons, which was detrimental to project implementation and
outcome.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project did not require specific safeguards supervision since it was rated as a
category C project. No safeguard issues arose during implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Some measures will benefit exit and sustainability. These include the capacity
development for the secretariats of the TCs, and development of business plans for the
communities. Further work is needed on the capacity for identification, appraisal and
delivery of projects by the TA secretariats, and improved coordination between DAs and
TAs. The first issue may require formal establishment of Project Coordination Units
(PCUs) within the secretariat of the TCs. The second issue requires a better platform for
policy dialogue between TAs and DAs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The Project development objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy for 2000-2004 which aimed to learn from the contribution that TAs can
make to social and economic development, thus help inform decentralized
approaches to poverty reduction and improving local health and education. The
project implementation approach and structures were consistent with development
objectives. Capacity development of the TAs' secretariats by the PIUs and the
knowledge dissemination approach were consistent with the needs of an indigenous
oral culture. In the absence of a Government explicit and well articulated
decentralization strategy, the project design seems to have borrowed from
approaches to community driven development (CDD).The approach to coordination
of community and local Government projects may ultimately help create an ongoing
forum for joint programs.

On the implementation side, it was expected that recourse to PIUs to deliver
implementation of behalf of TAs could contribute to the capacity development of the
TAs through interactions; that TAs exposure to Bank financial management and
procurement procedures would help them formalize their delivery systems and



                                                 7

structures. However a more systematic integration of project implementation units
(PIUs) into the TA secretariats might have been a better approach to strengthening
partnerships and delivering programs. Lack of such a systematic approach prevented
adequate harmonizing of local Government and TA decision-making and
management. Administrative capacity building could have been a clearer focus.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
In assessing this project it should be born in mind that this was a learning initiative
in an area in which there was no precedent for Bank programs ­ i.e. the integration
of marginalized TAs into local Government development activities in Ghana. Since
the ability of TAs to support education, health and other initiatives had been eroded
over the last few decades due to institutional decay and decline in economic activity,
the potential implementation problems were aggravated and this provided a difficult
starting point.

The actual results of the project in terms of output were overall satisfactory. All the
four components of interventions under the project were delivered to 40 communities
in 35 paramountcies and 18 districts in the AC and 300 communities, five Divisional
Councils and six districts in the AATC. The Project Implementation Units (PIUs) of
the two TCs pursued interventions under these components with varied degree of
scope and emphasis based on the resources made available to them (US$4.5m for the
AC and US$0.5m in the AATC). While the interventions in the AC were tangible in
nature (school infrastructure, teachers' quarters and other facilities, growth
monitoring of children and capacity building interventions and studies), the
interventions in the AATC were largely intangible (school infrastructure for five
beneficiary communities, studies, capacity building and environmental protection).

Most recent supervision reports suggest that (See also annex 4):

    · at Mid-Term over 70 percent of the grant was disbursed and almost 90 percent
        committed
    · participation of the TAs had been substantial in creating awareness of health
        issues ensuring community involvement in teacher retention and arranging
        scholarships for pupils in community schools
    · the partnership approach was being replicated in investment projects, including:
        the Community-Based Rural Development Project, Small towns' Water &
        Sanitation project and the Land Administration Project
    · under the education component all main civil works had been completed in all 40
        identified communities, leading to increased enrollment in 95 percent of the
        communities
    · regular awareness creation on health matters had been instituted by the TAs in
        collaboration with local and national government institutions.
    · the communities' capacity for health and education initiatives was strengthened
        and community development plans had been developed for the pilot communities.



                                                 8


                                                                                              9

    · traditional courts that adjudicate land issues had been equipped and training was
        under way. WBI and LEGAF were replicating court training in two other
        communities.

    With regard to replication, the project encouraged several TAs from other areas to
    carry out local economic development initiatives, helped by the capacity building
    workshops, some of which were held at the National House of Chiefs (TAs), and by
    media coverage. The three projects mentioned above have taken advantage of this
    broad interest in the following ways.

    · As a result of community pressure during the preparation of this project, under the
        Land    Administration     Project    (LAP)       the   Government       is   piloting     the
        decentralization of title registration for community-owned land and is providing
        support to four TAs to improve and decentralize land title deed registration.
    · To address weaknesses in the land tenure system, the TAs piloted a joint process
        of land registration.
    · Community representations to the Government under the Community-Based
        Rural Development (CBRDP) led to the inclusion of a component to strengthen
        the role of TAs in partnership with district assemblies. The TAs and their
        communities can develop proposals on community development initiatives and
        then seek support from CBRDP.
    · A similar dynamic took place in the case of the Small Town Water & Sanitation
        Project (STWSP) which seeks to setup community managed water systems. Upon
        representations by a TA to the Bank and to the Government, it was decided to
        include the TAs by ensuring their involvement in the sitting, management and
        maintenance of water systems.

Nevertheless, as stated, a significant shortcoming was the failure to put in place the M &
E system in a timely manner, and as a result the monitoring of target fulfillment, as set
out in Annex 1, was inadequate. Though Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR)
reported on progress and likelihood of achieving project objectives, the lack of rigorous
M & E left scope for different interpretations of the PDOs and the key outcome
indicators and there is inadequate independently derived data showing the level of
outcome and impact achievement. The final ISRs contained progress tables that
referred two outcomes only: a) the extent of replication of partnerships; and b) the
number of TAs participating in health workshops, whereas the range of outcomes
was addressed in practice. Taking into account the qualitative information available
from field visits and from local staff, the table below presents the most likely
qualitative assessment of project achievements.

                               Summary of Project Results

Outcome      Target                Actual                               Assessment Of Results
Indicator
Overall      Replication of        Extension of partnership process in  Mostly reached. Opportunities
Outcome      Partnership           several other target communities.    & constraints for partnership
(PDO)        Methodology           Replication of Court training in two highlighted, and reasonable
                                   other TAs                            substantive progress achieved.



                                                9

Capacity     Broad implementation    Activities planned and largely        Reached. Some degree of
Building     & participation in      implemented with significant          formalization of TAs activities
             capacity building       attendance at health promotion        through exposure to WB
             activities              activities, and participation in      procurement and financial
                                     community development plans and       management procedures but
                                     court training                        more capacity for partnership
                                                                           is yet to be developed in terms
                                                                           of appraisal, budgeting and
                                                                           process management..
Health       Commitment &            Communities' capacity for health and  Reached. Project resources
             Increased Participation education initiatives strengthened.   supported satisfactorily much
             of TAs.                 Participation of TAs more             needed interventions.
                                     structured
Education    Commitment &            Structured participation of TAs       The objectives for girls
             Increased Participation combined with completion or part      enrollment and retention were
             of TAs                  completion of main civil works in all not completely reached..
                                     40 identified communities, increasing However, educational
                                     enrollment in almost all communities  activities were globally
                                                                           considered, reasonably
                                                                           successful interventions with
                                                                           some degree of harmonization
                                                                           with local government, but
                                                                           momentum needed to ensure
                                                                           sustainability
Cultural     Systems & Structures    Studies and training                  Opportunities highlighted for
Heritage     put in place                                                  further development..
The following section supports the assessment of project results (see annex 2).

Education: In the AC, school infrastructure, teachers' quarters and water borehole
facilities have been provided to enhance school facilities and increase enrolment in 40
communities in 18 districts and 35 paramountcies with emphasis on girls. In some cases,
paramount chiefs subsidized the cost or offered free accommodation to teachers.
Scholarship schemes have been provided for a total of US$20,500 to 300 pupils. The
same donation was used to establish an incentive for teachers, providing 10 million Cedis
for the Best Teacher Award. In the AATC five communities benefited from
improvements in school infrastructure to enhance access of children to school and
increase enrollment.

Health: In both the AC and AATC, awareness about HIV/AIDS has been increased in
the beneficiary communities and districts. This may have contributed to a drop in the
prevalence rate though this may have also been attributable to the Government's
campaigns.

Capacity building: Capacity for monitoring of development interventions was improved
in both AC and AATC. And in the AC, Medium Term Development Plans have been
prepared for each community and paramount. Training was provided on a number of
issues, including: conflict Management; TAs in partnership with Local Government;
development planning; partnership with private sector in Eco-tourism; sustainable rural
development and land management

Cultural Heritage: A number of studies, including baseline surveys, were conducted to
provide basic information on opportunities in ecotourism, although these need to be
further developed to trigger involvement of the private sector. Some artisans benefited


                                                   10

from training in collaboration with the Ghana Handicrafts Association (GHA). Some 47
unemployed handicapped persons were trained in the use of cultural heritage artifacts in
the manufacture of "tye and dye", and batik cloth manufacturing, Ghanaian Kente
weaving, screen printing and sculpture. Subsequently, one of them has gone on to
employ four people in kente weaving, batik cloth making business.

The Counterfactual and Additionality

As in all development projects the outcome and impact has to be compared with a
counterfactual. In this case the counterfactual would be the expected level of activity and
engagement on development programs by the leaders and members of TAs that would
have been occurring had there been no outside support. Without a quantitative survey of
the costs and benefits definitive conclusions cannot be arrived at. However, given that the
ability of the TAs to initiate and carry out development projects had been eroding for
some time, the results of this project, (e.g. the increase in participation levels, and the
need expressed by the TAs for continued further partnership building) suggests that the
results achieved were significant and were additional in character, and therefore served to
justify (albeit to a degree yet to be determined) the expenditure on the intervention by the
Bank and the Government.

Assessment: Concluding Points.

Partnerships through joint development activities were built between local Government
and the TAs, and lessons learned thereby. However monitoring and documentation was
weak. The partnership approach was learned and disseminated at the request of a number
of TAs through other projects but otherwise the experience of partnership formation was
achieved through demonstration. While this is consistent with the approach of the
existing oral culture, it puts at some risk the project's sustainability, because of the lack
of a solid base of lessons of experience that can be disseminated widely to assist future
partnership.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

There was no economic and financial analysis in the PAD.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

The overall outcome rating is assessed as moderately satisfactory, since the project
largely met its objective to test a new partnership model with Traditional Authorities and
deepen their engagement in the socio-economic development of communities, as
measured by the outcome indicator for replication, and the intermediate outcome
indicators related to capacity building, health, and cultural heritage. The relevance of the
project objective and design is high, given the strong alignment with Ghana's
development priorities and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Similarly, the overall


                                             11

efficiency of the project is satisfactory, since the design was based on a low-cost
partnership model for the provision of social services and community development.
Most important of all, the project generated a lot of learning and piloting in search of
possible new developmental solutions -- the true test of a LIL. Nonetheless, there were
moderate shortcomings in the achievement of the objective (particularly related to the
education targets for girls enrollment and retention) and project implementation
(particularly related to slow development of the monitoring and evaluation system, which
undermined the project's ability to understand the effectiveness of the approach being
tried).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

As delivered, the project including its spin off effects contributed to a reasonable extent
to efficient implementation of Government strategy for improved social sector
development on the ground, as envisaged in the result matrix.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Please refer section 3.2

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Capacity for monitoring of development interventions in the district was improved in
both AC and AATC. But structural capacity to support partnership between DAs and TAs
requires continued focus.

Sustainability

The two TCs have indicated that the Secretariats would continue to be functional after the
project has closed as a basis for sustaining partnerships. In addition, training of the TA in
best practice in fiduciary responsibility strengthened management. An outstanding issue
of importance remains the TAs' weak financial management and budgeting, and this still
needs to be addressed. TAs and DAs regularly interacted and workshops provided a
unique forum for sharing critical development choices. However, the role of the DAs was
largely limited to payment of counterpart contributions and post-contract monitoring
while specialized PIUs implemented the project. The use of specialized PIUs may have
limited the level of local ownership and commitment in some districts. Future
collaboration needs the continued momentum of joint projects to strengthen dialogue and
integrate the dual governance system.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There is no unintended outcome noted during in the course of the preparation of this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).


                                               12

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

The four main components of interventions, namely health, education, capacity building
and cultural heritage preservation were provided to 40 communities in 35 paramountcies
and 18 districts in the AC and 300 communities, five Divisional Councils and six districts
in the AATC.

Relevance. The majority of survey respondents considered that the interventions provided
under the education, health, capacity building and cultural heritage preservation
components were relevant and appropriate. The overall ratings are shown in the table.

        Beneficiary Survey Perceptions on Relevance of Interventions

                  Highly relevant  very relevant  Relevant    not relevant
          AC      67.5%            17.5%          13.75%
          AATC    35%              15%            30%         20%

The differences in the ratings in the AC and AATC are explained by the integrated and
comprehensive nature of the interventions in the AC as opposed to the AATC.

Project participation. Respondents stated that their participation in conception and
planning was limited but their level of involvement in the other stages was very
satisfactory. The project idea was conceived and planning done at the level of the
Secretariats and PIUs of the two TCs and the communities, but implementation was more
decentralized. A rating of beneficiary perspectives on their overall involvement in the
two TCs revealed the following answers:

        Beneficiary Survey Ratings of Adequacy of Involvement

                  Very adequate   Adequate    Inadequate.
          AC      13.89%          33.33%      52.78%
          AATC    10.17%          72.88%      16.95%

The differences in the ratings in the two TCs are explained by the high level of
involvement of beneficiary districts, communities and TAs in deciding on the location of
facilities, contract award by the DAs and their more intense role in the monitoring and
supervision of construction work in the AATC as opposed to the peripheral role played in
the AC in the award of contract and location of the facilities.

Beneficiaries at the district, community and TA levels were quite satisfied with the
quality and mode of delivery of the interventions, as below.

        `Very Satisfactory' Beneficiary Rating of Intervention Quality




                                                 13

             District level Community level TA level
   AC        60%              60%                67%
   AATC                       60%                61%

The high level of satisfaction was due to the appropriate interventions, increased
accessibility to facilities, and reasonable timeliness in the delivery of the interventions. A
90 percent satisfaction was expressed with the mode of delivery of interventions.
However, there was some disquiet with substandard quality of work and materials used
by some contractors. Beneficiaries at all levels in the AC and AATC stated that the
project had yielded a positive impact on their lives. For example, they stated that new
school infrastructure had increased access, enhanced enrolment, and helped in
recruitment and retention of qualified teachers, and increased student motivation.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Medium

Notwithstanding tangible achievements in terms of outputs and capacity development for
TAs, successful exit and the sustainability of the project's impact are still vulnerable to
low levels of commitment and to the still tentative structures for partnerships. While most
stakeholders were committed, the responsiveness of some DAs and communities to
requirements such as submission of quarterly reports was slow. About 40 percent of the
communities in the AC did not contribute towards maintenance and repairs of the water,
toilet and school facilities. User fees were not charged because for example the
Asantehene had directed that the teachers should not pay any rent or user fees and
community members were using the water facilities at the schools free of charge.
Although most of the volunteers were motivated the beneficiary survey revealed that
motivation fell by about 30 percent due to lack of mentoring and coaching from
community members and TAs, and lack of finance. Weak financial management also
delayed payment of counterpart funds and some TAs had to resort to other donor funds.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately satisfactory
While (i) project design was consistent with development priorities and; (ii) due diligence
was exercised to take project preparation through required procedures, there were also
weaknesses. For example, the project design could have benefited from deeper
background analysis. Thus there was insufficient conceptualization of how partnerships
would form. The PAD and DCA were very explicit with regard to the need for linkages
and coordination structures between TAs and local Government but such mechanisms
were not built sufficiently into actual programs.


                                              14

Other sector specialists outside education and health, with expertise e.g. in sociology,
ethnology, decentralization could have contributed more to design and preparation. In the
event the project focus shifted from supporting partnerships between Government and
TAs to more regular interventions in health, education and training. Nevertheless, there
was also some reasonable expectation that project implementation would in itself
strengthen partnership structures.

(b) Bank Performance in Lending and Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory:
The Bank team undertook a minimum of four supervision missions per year and attended
several project meetings and workshops. Bank staff helped the implementation team
comply with procurement and financial management procedures. Withdrawal
applications were submitted at regular intervals and the project had adequate operating
funds. Audits were conducted on time and Financial Management reports were prepared
and submitted quarterly. The quality of the reports was acceptable as reports were
consistent with the underlying records of the project and disbursement data. For this
reason, Bank team work is rated satisfactory.

However adequate supervision was affected by the delay in putting in place the project
M&E system. Bank supervision teams were also limited to specialists in procurement and
financial management (concerned with fiduciary responsibility) whereas some use of
Bank expertise in substantive areas of governance and local development could have
been profitably deployed. This tended to focus supervision on output rather than
outcome.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating:
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall, the Bank performance is rated "moderately satisfactory". The satisfactory aspect
of the rating is due to actual delivery in a difficult context and with limited funds. But the
project design and implementation needed a clearer definition of PDOs and better
alignment of outcomes, outputs and inputs to achieve its structural and sustainability
objectives. The project would also have benefited from closer guidance during design and
supervision.

5.2 Government

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
MoFEP, RCCs and District Assemblies (DAs) ended by working well together with
the TCs, PIUs and Bank staff. As project implementation moved forward, local
government gradually realized the potential of leveraging support from TAs through
project interventions. This highlighted further opportunities for integration of project
activities as "single packages" for maximum impact. By the end of the project the



                                                15

need for (more) continuous policy dialogue between the dual governance systems
was clearly demonstrated. As Bank counterpart, MoFEP should be commended for
its technical support and support to policy dialogue between local government and
TAs for delivery of project's interventions.

It became clear through the experience of joint projects why a framework for
partnership and policy dialogue was needed. Had this been anticipated in advance the
project could have better targeted capacity development. The framework for
partnership could then have been used to test joint approaches in health, education
and cultural heritage. Lessons learnt at the early stage of project implementation
could have helped to fine-tune capacity building interventions. A stronger
Government commitment early on could also have provided a better platform for
policy dialogue and identified risk mitigation measures.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Secretariats of the two TCs satisfactorily coordinated activities of the PIUs and
participated in the mobilization of financial resources from the DAs to pay TAs
counterpart funds. Overall, implementation infrastructures that were put in place in both
TCs enabled effective functioning of the PIUs and facilitated timely delivery of
interventions. These also helped in meeting reporting requirements at the various levels.

However, implementation agencies were not driven by the bigger picture, that is, of
integrating activities in health, education and cultural heritage programs. In addition, the
set-up of the management information system (MIS) came too late to guide corrective
measures. As a result, while project outputs were adequately delivered the opportunity
was missed to use the momentum to support structural change and decentralization of
development activity. It was only ex post that the value of policy dialogue and pooling
activities/funds was understood.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory:
Government overall performance is rated "moderately satisfactory". Government
technical support has been decisive in the successful delivery of project activities. The
project design could have been more responsive to the need for structural change but the
context was difficult and funds limited. As project implementation went on, Government
became more active in developing partnerships, assuring quality of interventions and
assessment of impact.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Harmonization and integration of activities. A key to the success of projects of this
kind is the recognition by the dual Governance system of the value of consistent joint
policies and interventions. Project implementation highlighted some approaches to


                                             16

coordination between DAs and TAs. But if this project was to be replicated, the
development of a relevant platform for mainstreaming TAs governance systems in local
government framework should be adopted as a specific, principal target.

Mainstreaming PIUs. One of the key objectives of the project was to build the capacity
of the TCs to enable them sustain the project after closing, through a strong secretariat.
However, apart from the Project Manager in the AC, other professional staff had to be
recruited and paid for by the project. In the AATC the PIU is made up of entirely
recruited professionals. The TCs did not provide personnel to take over responsibilities
for managing the secretariat, as had been planned. Only the Okyehene's State Secretary
was co-opted to understudy the PIU in the AATC. The educational and professional
backgrounds of most Secretariat staff were inadequate.

In this project, it is evident that the resource base and management skills of the TAs was
overestimated. Had the project preparation team paid attention to that, project design
would have focused more on capacity development, for example to improve revenue
collection systems. By so doing, the project would have been more likely to achieve
major impact by contributing to help qualify TAs for sub-sovereign lending.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                               17

Figures: Cumulative Disbursements Over The Project Life




                                   18

                                                Annex 1. Project Design Summary
                                        GHANA: Promoting Partnerships with TAs Project



Hierarchy of Objectives                           Key Performance Indicators         Data Collection Strategy    Critical Assumptions

Sector-related CAS Goal:
Government strategy of improved social sector   Sector indicators:                   Sector/country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)
development efficiently implemented on the      Partner' TAs contribution to         WBIIMF statistics.          Sustainable improvement in school
ground                                          health information access, and       Mm. of Health Annual        enrollment in deprived communities
                                                quality basic education in           Reports.
                                                deprived areas. increased by at      Mm of Education report
                                                least 1% of total government         ISSER annual report
                                                expenditure on health &              Government's Annual
                                                education) within 2 years of LIL     Budget
                                                closing



                                                Policy guidelines on community                                   Sustained reduction on number of
                                                participation instituted                                         persons reporting illnesses in deprived
                                                                                                                 communities
Follow-on Development Objective:
Effective implementation of government                                                                                   Macroeconomic stability
strategy of reducing hard core poverty on the
ground
Project Development Objective:                  Outcome / Impact communities         Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Test approaches to substantively integrate and  within the nation by end of
improve TAs involvement and help focus their    project                              Quarterly Project report.   Sustained government commitment to
contributions in socio-economic development in                                                                   reducing poverty and political will to
their communities                                                                    Annual Surveys.             fostering partnerships

                                                                                     Ministry of Health &
                                                                                     Ministry of Education
                                                                                     reports

                                                                                     Development plans of
                                                                                     traditional authority
Output from each component:                     Outcome Indicators:                  Project reports             (from Outputs to Objectives)

1. Methodology identified                       1.1 At least 50% of Traditional      Project MIS and Beneficiary
                                                leadership in pilot districts        Assessments
                                                participate in the enhancement of
                                                basic health and fight against       Mid-term and end of
                                                HIV/AIDS                             project evaluation
                                                1.2 50% of activities carried out by Reports
                                                TAs include REV/AIDS and
                                                health issues by end of project
                                                                                     Quarterly progress
                                                                                     reports

                                                1.3 At least 50% of traditional      Annual Audited accounts
                                                leadership in pilot districts
                                                participate in the enhancement of    Economic development
                                                primary school enrolment and         reports
                                                retention rates by end of project.

                                                1.6 At least 10 % increase in girls



                                                                       19

                                            enrolment/completion rates in
                                            basic education by end of project
                                            1.5 20% increase in teacher
                                            attendance in selected schools by   Annual Enrollment Statistical
                                            end of project                      Census conducted by MOE




                                                                                Teacher attendance records in
                                                                                selected schools
Capacity building program implemented       2.1 Traditional leaders participate
                                            in minimum of 4 community
                                            development training programs
                                            by end of project.
                                            2.2 All community volunteers in
                                            the pilot districts participate in
                                            health and education specific
                                            training programs.
                                            2.3 Community
                                            development/business plans
                                            developed.
                                            3.1. Area and sector specific
3. Replication/scaling up method and        scaling up methods and
guidance manuals developed and              manuals developed.                                                New set of key, committed and
disseminated                                                                                                  resourceful TAs/communities
                                                                                                              identified
                                            3.2 Training on manual use
                                            organized in two other sectors
                                            besides health and education by

4. LIL Project Management system installed  end of project.

and operational                             4.1 Project annual plans
                                            developed with participation of                                   Qualified borrower implementation
                                            selected communities and                                          team engaged and working.
                                            implemented.
                                            4.2 Development office/Project
                                            management team in place.
                                            4.3 Monitoring and evaluation
                                            system developed and being
                                            implemented by end of year 1.
Project Components/Sub-component            Inputs: (budget for each            Project reports:              (from
                                            component)                                                        Components to Outputs)
1.1HIV/ALDS/Health Advocacy Modules /
workshops/ training/outreach activities     1.US$0.48M                          Mid-term and end of project   1. TAs committed to productive
                                                                                reports                       partnership with government in the
1.2 Design Community Health                                                                                   development of the education and
Register/Planning for Healthy Outcomes                                          Supervision Mission Reports   health sectors.

1.3 Periodic Public for a                                                       Audits Reports                2. TAs provides adequate and timely
                                                                                                              resources.

                                                                                                              3. Communities supportive of efforts
                                                                                                              of TAs.

                                                                                                              4. School Performance Appraisal
                                                                                                              Meeting (SPAM) is initiated in
                                                                                                              community.

                                                                                                              5. Schools in the pilot areas are
                                                                                                              adequately staffed.

                                                                                                              6. PTAs are strengthened or initiated.
2.1 TAs; role in schools' administration
(Scholarship schemes, lands, enrollment



                                                                   20

drives, etc) training module                                      Min. of Education reports
                                               2. US$30M
2.2 School resources/facilities and
rehabilitation plan

2.3 survey/study ­ to identify constraints to
enrollment, teacher retention incentives,
baseline

3.1 TAs secretariats/MIS

3.2 Training needs assessment/training
program

3.3 Monitoring & Evaluation system                                Mid-term and end of project
                                               3. US$0.93M        reports
3.4 Office
equipment/vehicles/audit/operations.                              Supervision Mission Reports
3.5 Partnership Module

4.1 Cultural Heritage Preservation
study/inventory of artifacts
                                                                  Mid-term and end of project
4.2 Traditional courts/museums study                              reports
                                               4. US$0.39M
4.3 Cultural Heritage curriculum/multi-purpose                    Supervision Mission Reports
center study




                                                            21

                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Interventions were delivered to 40 communities in 35 paramountcies and 18
districts in the AC and 300 communities, five Divisional Councils and six districts
in the AATC. While outputs in the AC are tangible (school infrastructure,
teachers' quarters and relevant facilities, monitoring of children growth aside from
capacity building and studies), outputs in the AATC are of a softer nature (school
infrastructure    only for     five  communities, studies, capacity building and
interventions in environment protection.).

Asanteman Council (AC)
In the Asanteman Council 40 communities in 35 paramountcies in 18 districts
benefited from interventions under the project in health, education, capacity building
and cultural heritage preservation.

Education: Under the education component the activities focused on
renovation, reconstruction and or construction of classrooms, offices, 6
bedroom teachers' quarters, library, staff common room and water boreholes.
Each participating community had a school rehabilitated, reconstructed and or
constructed. Water boreholes and 10 to 20-seater Aqua Privy Toilet Facilities were
also constructed. In addition, text books, readers and furniture (dual desk for the
classrooms, tables and chairs for the library and head teachers' offices) were supplied to
the schools. Three communities namely Hwereso, Asamang and the Manhyia Palace
benefited from solar energy supply thus mechanizing the water borehole facility to
supply water to the larger community. Teacher incentives schemes have also been
instituted. In addition, 700 needy pupils selected by head teachers and
recommended by the SMCs from all the beneficiary communities have benefited
from stationery supplies (5 exercise books, 5 notebooks, 1 mathematical set and
one school bag each). Scholarship schemes for needy children and girls'
education have also been instituted.

Health: Outputs under the health component included training of community
members and other key stakeholders in growth monitoring of children 0-5 years,
HIV/AIDS control, disease surveillance including malaria prevention and control. Teams
of six to seven trained facilitators from the district health directorates supported the
implementation of community based growth promotion aimed at ensuring
improvement in child health, particularly their nutritional status. These facilitators also
trained seven to ten volunteers in each of the participating communities to undertake
growth monitoring of children. Inputs such as weighing scales and weighing pants
were provided for their activities. Monthly growth monitoring of children 0-2 years and
half-yearly for children 2-5 years was ongoing. On awareness creation and follow
up on HIV/AIDS, the AC has entered into partnership with an NGO (Serwaa Ampem



                                           22

AIDS Foundation) to follow up on activities started under the PPTAP including
mounting of bill boards and sensitization programs.




Capacity Building: Capacity building activities included training of all traditional
leaders   (including    all  paramount      chiefs,    queen     mothers,   beneficiary
community chiefs and queen mothers), DCEs and Planning Officers of beneficiary
districts as well as community members (mainly the monitoring committees) in
community development issues such as needs assessment, roles in the
government's decentralization process as well as maintenance of school property
and the water facilities. Eleven volunteers from each community were trained in
the maintenance of the water borehole facilities. Training of health
volunteers in health specific issues, were also undertaken. Each paramountcy
had MIS established and the relevant personnel trained in basic management
practices and computer literacy. Two education vans fitted with various audio and
video equipment were also procured to facilitate HIV /AIDS sensitization and
monitoring activities by the PIU.

As part of the capacity building, Medium Term Development Plans have been
prepared for each community and paramountcy. The plans take into account the
community needs and development plans. All the 35 paramountcies have their own
development plans and each community has its own development plan. The
capacities of the district assemblies have been built to enhance their role in the
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of development interventions in
the districts. The DAs and TAs now have very good database to inform development
activities. Management Information Systems were being put in place to facilitate
management of development activities in the beneficiary communities, districts and
paramountcies.

Cultural Heritage Preservation: Under the Cultural Heritage component, TCs
were assisted to improve their community's ability to carry out programs that
would help them to preserve and benefit from their cultural heritage through the
development of educational activities, curriculum in schools on cultural heritage,
linkages to environmental degradation, private sector-community business
partnerships for eco-tourism projects, artifacts and practices.

A study on identification of cultural heritage assets has been done and a report on
cultural heritage assets of the participating paramountcies produced and yet to be
published. Studies have been conducted on traditional courts and customary laws
codified to help the TAs to review the operations of the traditional court system with a
view to reducing the incidence of chieftaincy disputes and litigation.

Training of craft artisans for employment generation has been undertaken. Four of
such training have been organized in conjunction with the Ghana Handicrafts


                                           23

Exports Associations for Wood Carvers in Ashanti at Akyeaw-Krom for 75
participants, for handicraft producers at Atonso in the Kwabre District for 46
participants, for brassware producers at Sokoban-Krofrom-Ashanti for 37 participants
as well as a three month training workshop for 50 deaf and disabled craft artisans in
Kente weaving, tie & dye, sculpture and screen printing at Tewobaabi in the Kwabre
District.



The Lands Secretariat at Manhyia has been refurbished to help streamline land
acquisition processes and ultimately improve revenue generation for the AC.

Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Councils (AATC)

About 300 communities in five divisional councils and six district assemblies have
benefited from the interventions under the education, health, capacity building and
cultural heritage preservation components.

Education: Five communities in five districts namely Heman in the Fanteakwa district,
Kibi in the East Akim district, Wasabeampa in the West Akim district,
Addaekrom in the Kwabibirem district and Akote in the Suhum-Kraboa-Coaltar
district benefited from the rehabilitation, reconstruction and or construction of three to
six unit classrooms, office, a store and library. The Kibi and Addaekrom school
buildings were near completion at the time of the field data collection. The
Wasabeampa and Akote buildings were at the lintel level, while the Heman
building was at the foundation level.

Health: Under the health component about 300 communities in the five divisional
councils of the AATC benefited from the health interventions. Baseline studies that
establish the status of development indicators, including health, in the AATC
have been undertaken. A study to identify resources needed to empower divisional TAs
in the Akyem Abuakwa Kingdom to enhance HIV/AIDS advocacy campaign
was undertaken and some traditional leaders have been sensitized and trained in
basic health issues to participate in enhancing basic health and the fight against
HIV/AIDS.

Sixteen Queen Mothers have been trained as resource persons for HIV/AIDS
advocacy campaign; 22 volunteers (2 chiefs, 3 Queen Mothers and 17 community
members ­ 9 females and 8 males) have been trained to serve as caretakers for
People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA); and 17 resource persons (4 chiefs, 2
linguists and 11 administrators of the palace) trained in HIV/AIDS/STI Advocacy
Campaign.

Documentation centers in each of the divisional capitals of Wenchi, Begoro,
Kwabeng, Asiakwa and Kukurantumi have been renovated and equipped to track
and document all health related incidents in each of the divisions in the Kingdom. A
cinema van, audio visual equipment for HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns, office
furniture and equipment including telecommunication facilities have also been
provided.


                                            24

Capacity Building: Okyehene's Secretariat has been established at Kyebi and
equipped with computers and accessories, other office equipment and furniture. One
4x4 Nissan pickup and an accounting software have also been provided.

Sensitization workshops were organized for TAs with about 44 participants
comprising 15 chiefs, 2 women, 3 resource persons, 2 facilitators and 12 TA
representatives participated in the workshops. Training has been organized for traditional
leaders in community development programs. Five development training programs
have been organized for 60 participants from the five participating districts (5
DCEs, 5 DCDs, 5 Presiding Members, 10 chiefs, 20 Sub-Committee
Chairpersons and 15'DPCU members). Updating and capacity building workshops
were organized for 100 participants made up of 50 chiefs and 50 queen mothers. An
M&E system has been established for the secretariat and training in M&E has been
organized for 49 TAs made up of 28 chiefs, 9 queen mothers, and 12 DA
representatives (11 males and one female). Training in ICT has also been organized.
Working sessions of the DAs with all the divisional councils were also organized
to review development process in the division and strategies mapped out to address
challenges.

Cultural Heritage Preservation: Renovation works were done on the Okyehene's
Secretariat and the documentation centre (library and archives) at Kyebi as part of the
capacity enhancement processes for the preservation of cultural heritage in the
Kingdom. A study on the tourism potentials of Akyem Abuakwa ecological and
cultural heritage sites has been done. Interpretation, translation, codification and
documentation of Akyem Abuakwa Historical materials have also been done. It
identified all historical materials in the Kingdom which were scattered in various
publications and documented them under one source for easy reference.

Publication of law reform documents was ongoing in the Okyehene's palace to
ensure that all cases settled and documented were automated to facilitate
regularized and authenticated legal reform document for the kingdom.

Equipment including computers, production equipment and accessories has been
procured for the documentation centre in order to resource the centre with the state of
the art equipment and to provide documentary recordings of all major events in the
Kingdom.




                                           25

                                   Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing


Health                                          0.40            0.08     0.48
                                                 Local       Foreign      Total
Project Coat By Component                     US $million         US   US $million     Actual
Asanteman (US$0.27M)                                                                 0.17
Akyem Abuakwa (US$0.15M)                                                             0.20

Education                                       3.10            0.20     3.30
Asanteman (US$2.90M)                                                                 3.29
Akyem Abuakwa (US$0.10M)                                                             0.146

Capacity Building                               0.41            0.52     0.93
Asanteman (US$0.64M)                                                                 1.12
Akyem Abuakwa (US$0.20M)                                                             0.214
                                                0.25            0.14     0.39
Cultural Heritage
Asanteman (US$0.24M)                                                                 0.19
Akyem Abuakwa (US$0.20M)                                                             0.21

Unallocated                                     0.00            0.40     0.40

Incremental Operating Cost
Total Baseline Cost                             4.16            1.34      5.50        4.77 (0.56)
 Physical Contingencies                         0.00            0.00      0.00
 Price Contingencies                            0.00            0.00      0.00
                                 1              4.16            1 34      5.50
                Total Project Costs

         Total Financing Required               4.16            1.34      5.50
                                                            Foreign      Total
       Project Cost By Category           Local
                                          US $million            US      US
                                                            $million     $million
                            Goods         0.12                  0.41     0.53        0.59
                            Works         2.80                  0.20     3.00        2.94
               Services & Training        1.11                  0.33     1.44        1.51
                    Operating Cost        0.13                  0.00     0.13        0.29
                       Unallocated        0.00                  0.40     0.40        0.00
                                  i       4.16                  1.34     5.50
       Total Financing Required           4.16                  1.34     5.50




                                                    26

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title               Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo      Sr Procurement Spec.              AFTPC
Evelyn Awittor             Operations Officer                AFTH2
Samuel Bruce-Smith        Consultant                        AFTFM
Salli Cudjoe              Program Assistant                  AFC10
Rona Cook                 Program Assistant                 AFTFDP
Eunice Yaa Brimfah Dapaah Education Spec.                    AFTH2
Edward Felix Dwumfour     Sr. Natural Resources Mgmt. Spec   AFTS4
Charlotte Hayfron         Disbursement Asst.                 AFC10
Anthony Mensa-Bonsu        E T Consultant                    AFTPC
Arthur Majoribanks Swatson Water & Sanitation Spec.          AFTU2
Frederick Yankey          Sr Financial Management Specia    AFTFM



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                        12                        29.85
  FY02                                        17                        28.87
  FY03                                        18                        29.18
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                          Total:              47                        87.90
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                                                   0.00
  FY03                                         2                         3.86
  FY04                                        15                        38.03
  FY05                                        19                        32.80
  FY06                                        18                        34.83
  FY07                                         5                        36.41
                          Total:              59                       145.93




                                           27

(c) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No. Date ISR Archived       DO            IP       Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   10/20/2003           Satisfactory  Satisfactory                        0.51
2   05/28/2004           Satisfactory  Satisfactory                        0.63
3   12/14/2004           Satisfactory  Satisfactory                        2.68
4   06/22/2005           Satisfactory  Satisfactory                        3.88
5   07/26/2005           Satisfactory  Satisfactory                        4.17
6   01/28/2006           Satisfactory  Satisfactory                        4.61




                                        28

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

                                          Summary

Context
The Promoting Partnership with Traditional Authorities Project (PPTAP) is a partnership
approach to development, between the Government of Ghana, Asanteman Council (AC),
Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Council (AATC) and the World Bank. It aims to test in a
limited number of areas approaches to substantively integrate and improve TAs in
deprived, remote and rural communities' involvement in development activities; and help
focus the contributions/influence of Traditional Authorities (TAs) in socio-economic
development. Implementation of the project is scheduled to close at the end of June 2006.
As part of the Development Grant Agreement, an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) and Beneficiary Impact Assessment Report were to be prepared. This beneficiary
assessment was therefore conducted to:
i.      Assess potential outcomes as at June 30, 2006 and beyond and likely impact of
        the project on the beneficiaries;
ii.     Ascertain and document lessons learned and make recommendations to be
        incorporated into future projects;
iii.    Assess plans instituted by the beneficiaries to ensure sustainability of the project
        interventions and make recommendations for future operations of the project; and
iv.     Assess the suitability of the approaches adopted in project implementation and
        suggest other suitable approaches.

More specifically, the assessment was to establish the following:
i.      Relevance and or suitability of project interventions to beneficiaries;
ii.     Participation in different stages of project activities;
iii.    Direct benefits to beneficiaries;
iv.     Availability of project services;
v.      Quality of project interventions;
vi.     Impact on the lives of beneficiaries (women and children); and
vii.    Satisfaction with the mode of delivery of the interventions.

Key Findings
The study came up with the following key findings:

Interventions Provided and the Beneficiaries
Four main components of interventions, namely health, education, capacity building and
cultural heritage preservation were provided to 40 communities in 35 paramountcies and
18 districts in the AC and 300 communities, five Divisional Councils and six districts in
the AATC. The PIUs of each of the two Traditional Councils (TCs) pursued interventions
under these components with varied degree of scope and emphasis. While the
interventions in the AC were largely tangible in nature (school infrastructure, teachers'



                                              29

quarters and other facilities, growth monitoring of children and capacity building
interventions in each community and studies), the interventions in the AATC were
largely intangible (school infrastructure for five beneficiary communities, studies and
capacity building).

Relevance/Suitability of Project Interventions to Beneficiaries
All the dialogue partners during the field data collection acknowledged that the
interventions provided under the education, health, capacity building and cultural heritage
preservation components were relevant and appropriate in responding to their critical
socio-economic development needs. Overall rating of the relevance/suitability of the
interventions in the AC indicated that 67.5 percent found them highly relevant, 17.5
percent as very relevant and 13.75percent as relevant. In AATC 35 percent rated them as
highly relevant, 15 percent as very relevant and 30 percent as moderately relevant. About
20 percent rated them as relevant. The differences in the ratings in the AC and AATC are
explained by the integrated and comprehensive nature of the interventions in the AC as
opposed to the AATC.

Participation in Different Stages of the Project Activities
Assessment of beneficiary perspectives on their level of involvement in the conception of
the project and in the planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project
activities revealed that although their level of involvement in the conception and planning
of interventions were very limited in scope, their level of involvement in the other stages
of delivery of interventions were very satisfactory. They indicated that the project idea
was conceived and the planning done at the level of the Secretariats and PIUs of the two
TCs and the communities. They however contended that their level of involvement at the
implementation, monitoring and evaluation stages had been significant. They cited the
systems and structures put in place at the various levels, the leadership provided by the
TAs, their participation in the sensitization and capacity building activities as well as the
cash and in kind contributions as avenues for their involvement. A rating of the
beneficiary perspectives about the adequacy of their overall involvement in the two TCs
revealed that in the AC, 13.89 percent found it very adequate, 33.33 percent adequate and
52.78 percent inadequate. In the AATC, 10.17 percent rated their involvement as very
adequate, 72.88 percent as adequate and 16.95 as inadequate. The differences in the
ratings in the two TCs are explained by the high level of involvement of beneficiary
districts, communities and TAs in deciding on the location of facilities, contract award by
the DAs and their more intense role in the monitoring and supervision of construction
work in the AATC as opposed to the peripheral role played by the beneficiaries in the AC
in the award of contract and location of the facilities.

Beneficiary Satisfaction with Project Interventions
Beneficiaries at the district, community and TA levels were quite satisfied with the
quality and mode of delivery of the interventions. In the AC majority (60 percent) of the
beneficiaries at the community level, 60 percent at the district level and 66.67 percent at
the TA level were very satisfied with the quality of interventions provided. Similarly, 60
percent of the beneficiaries at the community and district levels and 61.22 percent at the
TA level were very satisfied with the quality of interventions in the AATC. They



                                              30

attributed the relevance and appropriateness of the interventions, increased accessibility
to facilities and services, timeliness in the delivery of the interventions, good quality of
most of the school buildings rehabilitated, reconstructed/constructed, as well as the good
impact of the interventions on the lives of beneficiaries as the basis for their level of
satisfaction.

On the mode of delivery, notwithstanding the fact that over 90 percent of the
beneficiaries interviewed in both TCs were satisfied with the mode of delivery of
interventions, they expressed disquiet about the poor quality of work done by some
contractors and the sub-standard materials used for construction leading to cracks in walls
and falling off of locks, doors, windows, as well as leakage of the sinks. The poor
location of toilet facilities that posed health hazards to the teachers and members of the
beneficiary communities were also cited as some of the apprehensions of the
beneficiaries in the AC.

Impact on the Lives of Beneficiaries
Beneficiaries at the community, district and TA levels intimated that the project had
yielded significant impact on the lives of children, women, teachers and other community
members. In both the AC and AATC, the school infrastructure had increased access of
children to school and had enhanced enrolment and retention of pupils in the beneficiary
communities. In the AC, recruitment and retention of qualified teachers had increased;
the children were motivated to learn and had developed their reading culture as a result of
the library, textbooks and reading materials made available. Punctuality of pupils and
teachers to school had improved as a result of increased access to potable water by the
teachers, pupils and women. The teacher's quarters had made the teachers more
accessible to the children. The teachers do not spend on transport and get to school early
leading to more contact hours with the pupils.

In the AC, healthcare services had been brought to the doorstep of the children,
women/caregivers and the entire beneficiary communities. The work of the Community
Based Disease Surveillance Groups together with the Growth Promoters had heightened
awareness of community members about disease control and good care giving practices.
Mothers now monitor the nutritional status and growth of their children regularly. In both
the AC and AATC environmental cleanliness had improved through the activities of the
disease surveillance groups. Awareness about HIV/AIDS had been heightened in the
beneficiary communities and districts. This had led to a drop in the prevalence rate in
most beneficiary communities, especially in the AATC. In the Fanteakwa District for,
example, the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate had dropped from 6.8 to 4.1 in 2004/2005. The
district also moved from the second to the fifth position in ranking of the prevalence rate
nationwide. In the AC, development plans had been formulated for each participating
community and paramountcy. The plans incorporate potential employment and income
generation activities that would assist community development. Capacities of TAs in both
the AC and AATC in adjudicating land ownership disputes, succession cases and other
issues brought before the Traditional Law Courts had also been strengthened. Business
partnerships had been established with the private sector using outcomes of inventory on
cultural heritage sites.



                                              31

Project Sustainability
The project had put in place systems and structures, including implementation
arrangements, with well defined roles and responsibilities at the various levels, as well as
leadership that could be sustained if ownership and commitment of the beneficiaries
could be sustained. Most of the key stakeholders were motivated by the benefits and
impacts of the project and therefore had a strong urge to sustain the project interventions.
Contributions in cash and kind and performance of the key stakeholders point to their
strong ownership and commitment. A number of sustainability measures and exit
strategies had been put in place. These include budgetary allocations for project
interventions at the District Assembly level, plans by the Directorate of the Ghana
Education Service and the beneficiary schools to fund maintenance and repairs
requirements under the Capitation Grant, as well as cash and in kind contributions by the
beneficiary communities for repair and maintenance of structures and facilities. The
Directorate of the Ghana Health Service had also planned to budget for the growth
monitoring, disease surveillance and HIV/AIDS activities. Linkage and coordination
arrangements had been established by the TCs and communities with the districts and
other departments and agencies, including the Community and District Water and
Sanitation Agencies, the Ghana Accountability Improved Trust (GAIT), the Otumfuo
Education Fund, the Ghana Book Trust and the German Development Service to support
provision of the interventions.

A number of challenges however confronted successful exit and sustainability of the
project interventions. These included a slow pace in the payment of counterpart fund
contributions by some districts, inadequate strategies for sustainability in some
communities and districts, weakened motivation of the volunteers in the latter stages, and
some reluctance to participate in some communities, including the failure to submit
quarterly reports.

Lessons learned
Key lessons distilled include the need for comprehensive, integrated and complementary
intervention packages in the AC leading to a holistic approach to addressing development
challenges; complementarity of educational interventions in both TCs with the Capitation
Grant leading to increased enrolment and increased classroom capacities to cope with the
increased enrolment; integration of implementation approaches into existing systems and
structures thus providing opportunities for smooth exit and sustainability of the
interventions; replication of the project approach in other communities; and the political
and social clout of the Asantehene and Okyehene that contributed to successful
implementation and achievement of project objectives.

Other lessons include those for the DAs; it is important to present to the AC the
counterpart fund responsibility not as a virtual tax imposition but as a contribution to
community welfare; the inaccessibility of some target communities leading to slow
execution of contract work needs to be planned for ahead (e.g. in the Afram Plains);
absence of complementary facilities can create serious delays to programs (such as
teacher accommodation in the AATC leading to problems recruiting and retaining



                                            32

qualified teachers); all programs of this type need to be designed to align cultural and
attitudinal change to modernization and development; the capacity of local implementing
agents (the Secretariats of the AC and AATC) needs to be assessed a priori, to ensure
sustainable management of the interventions; the role of local Government (and the
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Environment) should be
carefully factored into design; and there needs to be a fair balance between tangible and
intangible interventions in deprived communities that had been starved of development
interventions to the extent that their level of commitment and ownership is determined by
immediate rather than long term benefits/impacts.

Recommendations

Based on the findings, recommendations have been provided to facilitate replication and
sustainability of the project approach and interventions. They include the need to enhance
participation of beneficiaries of project interventions from the very onset in order to
secure their ownership, commitment and sustainability; the need to strengthen the exit
and sustainability strategies including mainstreaming systems and structures as well as
the interventions into existing systems, structures and development agenda and the need
to enhance the involvement of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Environment to facilitate its advocacy role for replication of the project approach.

Also recommended is the need to put more emphasis on building the capacities of the
Secretariats of the two TCs technically and financially to sustain the project approach and
interventions; and the need for a fair balance between tangible and intangible
interventions in deprived communities to ensure ownership, commitment and
sustainability of interventions.




                                              33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                  34

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Context

The PPTAP is a partnership approach to development, between the Government of
Ghana (GOG), Asanteman Council (AC), Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Council (AATC)
and the World Bank. It aims to test in a limited number of areas approaches to
substantively integrate and improve TAs (TAs) in deprived, remote and rural
communities'    involvement     in   development   activities;  and   help   focus   their
contributions/influence in socio-economic development. Implementation of the project is
scheduled to close at the end of June 2006. As part of the Development Grant Agreement
(DGA), an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and Beneficiary Impact Assessment
Report were to be prepared. This ICR was therefore to:

· carry out a comprehensive review of all aspects of the project implementation as
    agreed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD);
· assess potential outcomes as at June 30, 2006 and beyond and the likely impact of the
    project on the beneficiaries;
· ascertain and document lessons and make recommendations to be incorporated in
    future projects;
· assess plans instituted by the beneficiaries to ensure sustainability of the project and
    make recommendations for future operations of the project; and
· Assess suitability of the approaches adopted in project implementation and suggest
    other suitable approaches.

More specifically, the ICR was to:
           Assess development objectives, project design and quality at entry;
   ii.      Identify major factors affecting implementation and outcomes;
   iii.    Assess project sustainability;
   iv.     Assess the level of contributions (in kind and cash) made by the
           beneficiaries towards project implementation;
   v.      Assess the level of involvement of the TAs in the activities of the District
           Assemblies (DAs) and vice versa in promoting development;
   vi.     Assess the leadership roles and guidance provided by the heads of these
           TCs and its impact on project implementation and likely sustainability;
   vii.    Assess Bank performance in terms of lending and supervision; and
   viii.   Assess borrower's performance in terms of preparation, Government
           implementation performance and implementing agency performance.

Key findings
The following key findings were made:
i.      Development Objectives, Design and Quality at Entry
Development objectives
The development objective of the PPTAP was to test approaches to substantively
integrate and improve TAs in deprived, remote and rural communities' involvement in
development activities and help focus their contributions in socio-economic development


                                             35

in their communities. These objectives were consistent with the World Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy of March 2000 and the goal of assisting the GOG to implement its
Poverty Reduction Strategy and the decentralization policy more effectively.

Components
The PPTAP was piloted in two Traditional Councils (TCs) namely the AC in the Ashanti
Region and the AATC in the Eastern Region of Ghana in the following areas:

Component 1: Health and HIV/AIDS. This component aimed to test approaches on
how to effectively bring in and utilize the chieftaincy institution to help contain the
spread of HIV/AIDS and lead an improved and sustained fight to curb the menace of
other public health issues and infectious diseases that impact negatively on the
communities' productive capacities.

Component 2: Education. The main objective was to develop sustainable solutions to
improve primary school enrolment in pilot communities given the resource contributions
of TAs. Assistance was to be provided for rehabilitation of dilapidated and broken-down
primary school infrastructure in remote and rural communities. Capacities of TAs were to
be built to facilitate enhancement of educational opportunities for primary school age
children, especially females in rural areas, to identify ways to retain teachers in rural and
remote communities, and enhance information flow on education between the central
government, the DAs and TAs.

Component 3: Capacity Building - sought to strengthen skills of staff working in the
Secretariats of the TCs. It included support for engagement of key project management
staff, formulation of community development/business plans for the pilot communities,
provision of vehicles and office equipment, including hardware and software for setting
up management information systems, development of efficient financial management,
M&E system, as well as establishment of lines of communication with DAs, government
agencies and other national leaders.

Component 4: Cultural Heritage Preservation - aimed at providing support to the two
TCs to improve their communities' ability to carry out programs that could help them to
preserve and benefit from their cultural heritage through the development of educational
activities/curriculum in schools on cultural heritage, linkage to environmental
degradation, private sector-community business partnership to set up ecotourism projects,
etc. It also sought to assist the TAs to review the operations of the traditional law courts
system with the view to reducing the incidence of chieftaincy disputes and land litigation
in order to identify needs for revision, codification and dissemination of traditional laws.



The project components were compatible with the objectives. The project provided the
opportunity for the Regional Coordinating Councils (RCCs), DAs and TAs to test new
approaches in the provision of basic social services, test and build capacity at national,
district and community levels for M&E as well as strengthen collaboration between TAs
and the decentralized system of government at the various levels. The project design


                                             36

ensured that its implementation was done by existing TC and government structures
leading to strong ownership and commitment at various levels. The objectives remained
the same throughout the life of the project. The components remained the same in the
AC, but the AATC education component was modified to include rehabilitation,
reconstruction /construction of school infrastructure in five deprived and remote
communities after studies had established its need.

Quality at Entry

Although the project design/preparation and negotiation processes took about two and a
half years (longer than expected for a US$5m grant), successful implementation and
pursuance of the project objectives have led to strong community, TA, District
Assembly and Government ownership and commitment to the project objectives and
activities.

The PPTAP is consistent with Government priorities on poverty reduction and
decentralization. The project design, which was based on existing structures at the
community, district, TC, regional and national levels, provides opportunities for
sustainability and replication.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

The project has addressed the development, as well as learning and innovation objectives
of integrating and improving TAs' involvement, and focus their contributions in socio-
economic development of their communities.

Education
In the AC, the school infrastructure, teachers' quarters and water borehole facilities
provided have enhanced access of children to education and increased enrolment in 40
communities in 18 districts and 35 paramountcies. Overall, primary school pupils
enrolled in AC beneficiary communities increased by 14 percent from 8,670 in 2002 to
9,881 in 2004. Furniture, textbooks and readers provided have also improved teaching
and learning outcomes. Scholarship schemes have been instituted to address the
educational needs of needy but brilliant children as well as girls' education. Junior
Secondary School (JSS) enrolment in the Ashanti Region increased by 29 percent from
2,819 pupils in 2002 to 3,647 in 2004. The proportion of pupils in the 40 beneficiary JSS
who qualify into the Senior Secondary School (SSS) increased from 18 percent in 2002
to 33 percent in 2004. In 2002, only four JSS schools had more than 50 percent of pupils
qualifying for SSS. In 2004 the number increased to seven schools. Punctuality of both
pupils and teachers to school has improved as a result of increased access to potable
water by both the teachers and pupils. The teachers' quarters has made the teachers more
accessible to the children and parents. The teachers do not spend money on transport
and they get to school early (by 7 am instead of between 9 am and 11 am). They are also
motivated by their presence in the communities to spend longer contact hours with the
children (about 7 hours instead of less than 4 hours on the average). In the AATC access
of children to school has improved, teaching and learning outcomes enhanced and
enrolment increased in five communities that benefited from improvements in school



                                            37

infrastructure. In both TCs, the Parent Associations (Pass) and School Management
Committees (SMCs) are now better focused on overseeing education planning and
delivery in the beneficiary communities. Parents, chiefs and queen mothers are
supporting enrolment drive. They visit the schools regularly to enable them identify and
address challenges that come up promptly.

Health
In the AC, health support services have been provided and capacities of volunteers in the
communities built to enable them to provide growth monitoring and disease surveillance
services to the communities. Capacities of volunteers in both TCs have been built to
enable them provide HIV/AIDS awareness services to the communities.

In the AC, healthcare services have been brought closer to the doorsteps of the children,
women/caregivers and the entire community. The work of the Community Based Disease
Surveillance Groups (CBDSGs) and the Growth Promoters have heightened awareness of
the community members about disease control and good care giving practices. Mothers
now monitor the nutritional status and growth of their children regularly and
environmental cleanliness has improved. Awareness about HIV/AIDS has been
heightened in the beneficiary communities and districts. The young men and women now
talk about HIV/AIDS and advise one another. This has contributed to a drop in the
prevalence rate in the beneficiary communities, especially in the AATC where in the
Fanteakwa District the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate had dropped from 6.8 to 4.1 in
2004/2005. The district also moved from second to fifth position in ranking of the
prevalence rate nationwide. Although it may be too optimistic to partly attribute these
achievements to project interventions, the feeling among the communities, TAs and
districts was that the project has helped to consolidate the gains.

Capacity Building
Capacities of the TAs and DAs have been built to enhance their role in monitoring
development interventions in the districts. The DAs and TAs now have very good
database for development activities. Management Information Systems have been put in
place to facilitate management of development activities in the beneficiary communities,
districts and paramountcies. Medium Term Development Plans that incorporate potential
employment and income generation ventures to assist community development have been
prepared for each community and paramountcy in the AC. The PPTAP has strengthened
collaboration between the DAs and TAs. The DAs now know how to involve the TAs
better in their development agenda. The TAs have better appreciation of their roles and
responsibilities and are better equipped to demand their share of the district's resources
for development.

Cultural Heritage
A number of studies, including baseline studies, have been conducted to facilitate
exploitation of the ecotourism potentials of the communities, paramountcies and the
districts. Business partnerships have been established with the private sector using
outcomes of inventory on cultural heritage sites and the community and paramountcies
development plans. In the AC, artisans have been trained under the project in


                                              38

collaboration with the Ghana Handicrafts Association. This has strengthened their ability
to access markets for their products, improved production methods, and facilitate order
fulfillment and access to financial services.

Capacities of TAs in both the AC and AATC in adjudicating land ownership disputes,
succession cases and other issues brought before the Traditional Law Courts have been
strengthened. In the AC, 500 cases were withdrawn from state courts and arbitrated in the
traditional courts, thus contributing to a reduction in the number of cases in the national
courts. The Chief Justice, in partnership with Legal Aid Board and the World Bank
Institute, has selected two TAs where this initiative will be replicated.

All the four components of interventions under the project were delivered to 40
communities in 35 paramountcies and 18 districts in the AC and 300 communities, five
Divisional Councils and six districts in the AATC. The Project Implementation Units
(PIUs) of the two TCs pursued interventions under these components with varied degree
of scope and emphasis based on the resources made available to them (US$4.5m for the
AC and US$0.5m in the AATC). While the interventions in the AC were tangible in
nature (school infrastructure, teachers' quarters and other facilities, growth monitoring of
children and capacity building interventions and studies), the interventions in the AATC
were largely intangible (school infrastructure for five beneficiary communities, studies,
capacity building and environmental protection).

iii.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

The following factors were identified:

Factors outside the control of government or implementation agency
The project preparation took about two and half years (longer than expected for a grant of
US$5m). There was also protracted debate in the public domain on the rationale for the
direct collaboration between a traditional authority and the World Bank, generating
media discussions. The project was subsequently submitted to Cabinet for consideration
in February 2003, and was accepted and approved in March 2003. It became effective in
July 2003.


Factors generally subject to government control
MoFEP and the RCCs provided continued support to the PIUs and the Secretariats of the
TCs to put in place relevant structures for project implementation. They ensured that
implementation arrangements were functional and responsive to implementation
requirements. MoFEP and the RCCs were represented on the review and supervision
missions conducted by the World Bank. They also participated in all the review
workshops and meetings.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
The project was managed by PIUs set up to manage and build the capacities of the
Secretariats of the TCs for sustainability. Supported by the Oversight Committees, the


                                             39

PIUs conducted monthly reviews with the Secretariats, discussed project progress as well
as identified and addressed implementation challenges. Periodic review workshops were
also organized for all key stakeholders at the national, regional, TA, district and
community levels to share implementation experiences, challenges and lessons for
replication and sustainability.

Cost and financing
The project cost was estimated at US$5.5 million. The International Development
Association (IDA) contributed US$5 million and the two TCs were expected to make
counterpart contribution of US$0.5 million The AC was to contribute US$450,000 and
the AAATC US$50,000. The two TCs mobilized resources from the DAs to pay the
counterpart contributions on their behalf The TAs and community members also made
other cash and in-kind contributions towards the rehabilitation, reconstruction and
construction of the school buildings and to support activities of the Community Based
Growth Promoters and the CBDSGs. The DAs in the AC had paid US$238,372.35
representing 53 percent of the counterpart contribution as at the time of the ICR. Each
DA in the AATC made annual counterpart contributions of 030 million in addition to
counterpart contributions for the school building construction ranging between 18
percent and 55 percent of the cost of the buildings. A total of US$3,820,026.17
representing 90 percent of the allocated funds had been disbursed with US$145,624.40
as uncommitted funds as of June 2006.

iv.     Assessment of the Level of Contributions by Beneficiaries
Key stakeholders in both the AC and AATC made cash and in kind contributions
towards delivery of interventions. Financial contributions made included mobilization of
funds by the TAs from the DAs to pay their counterpart fund contributions ranging
between US$7,385.10 and US$33,643.94 for the rehabilitation, reconstruction/
construction of the school buildings and other project interventions in the AC. In the
ATTC each beneficiary DA made annual contributions of ¢30m together with
counterpart contributions ranging between 18 percent and 55 percent on behalf of the
TAs. The Manhyia Development Unit through the initiative of the Asantehene, Otumfuo
Osei Tutu II, sourced US$40,000 worth of supplementary books and solar energy worth
US$26,000. In addition, scholarship schemes for 300 pupils at the basic school level
estimated at US$20,500 were provided through the Otumfuo Education Fund. The fund
has also made various cash donations to 23 SSSs for various projects in the Ashanti
Region. Seventeen other institutions outside the Ashanti Region have also benefited
from the fund. The fund has further released $0.1 million to the Ashanti Regional
Directorate of the GES to support the Best Teacher Award to serve as incentive to
teachers in the region.


Both the AC and the AATC made in kind contributions, including their participation in
all training programs, research/study activities and review workshops. They provided
office space, monitoring, supervisory, mentoring and coaching support to project
implementation. Other in kind contributions made by the two TCs included organization
of the annual HIV/AIDS campaigns by the Okyehene and the supportive role of the
Okyehemaa in addressing the needs of PLWHA. Each chief made available 5 acres of


                                           40

land for the construction of school facilities estimated at ¢1.2m (US$130) per acre on the
average. Communal labor, monitoring and supervision of school buildings construction
as well as free services were provided by the volunteers. The communities provided
communal labor, used low rates for water and lumber provided, gave construction
workers place to sleep free of charge and supervised construction. Some communities in
the AC have provided benches and plastic chairs as well as convenient places for growth
monitoring sessions. Some Parent Associations have also provided additional chairs for
the library.

v.      Leadership Role Provided by the Heads of the TCs
The heads of the TCs and the TAs of the participating communities, paramountcies and
divisions made immense contributions to, supported and guided project implementation.
Their participation in capacity building programs and meetings, mobilization of the
people and counterpart contributions from the DAs, supervision of construction activities
as well as cash and in kind contributions were valuable leadership provided in the of
course delivery of project interventions.

vi.     Project Sustainability
Systems and structures, including implementation arrangements, with well defined roles
and responsibilities at the various levels, as well as leadership that could be sustained are
in place. Most key stakeholders were motivated by the benefits and impacts of the
project to sustain the project interventions. Contributions in cash and kind and
performance of the key stakeholders point to their strong ownership and commitment.
Sustainability measures and exit strategies put in place include budgetary allocations for
project interventions at the DA level, plans by the District Directorates of the GES and
the beneficiary schools to fund maintenance and repairs requirements under the
Capitation Grant, as well as cash and in kind contributions by the beneficiary
communities for repair and maintenance of structures and facilities. The District
Directorates of the Ghana Health Service has also planned to budget for the growth
monitoring, disease surveillance and HIV/AIDS activities. Linkage and coordination
arrangements have been established by the TCs and communities with the districts and
other departments and agencies, including the Community and District Water and
Sanitation Agencies, the Ghana Accountability Improved Trust (GAIT), the Otumfuo
Education Fund, the Ghana Book Trust and the German Development Service to support
provision of the interventions.

A number of challenges confront successful exit and sustainability of the project. They
include the delays in the payment of counterpart fund contributions by some districts,
inadequate strategies for sustainability in some communities and districts, inadequate
motivation of the volunteers as well as inadequate response to implementation
arrangements.

vii.     Lessons learned
Lessons include the need for interdependent, comprehensive, integrated and
complementary intervention packages in the AC leading to a holistic approach to
addressing development challenges; the complementarity of educational interventions

with the Capitation Grant leading to increased enrolment and increased classroom


                                              41

capacities to cope with the increased enrolment; integration of implementation
approaches into existing systems and structures thus providing opportunities for smooth
exit and sustainability; replication of the project approach in other communities; and the
political and social clout of the Asantehene and Okyehene contributing to successful
implementation and achievement of project objectives. Other lessons that have to be
taken into account are: the tendency of some DAs to see the counterpart fund
contributions as a virtual imposition; inaccessibility of some communities in the Afram
Plains leading to slow execution of contract work; absence of other complementary
facilities such as teacher accommodation in the AATC leading to the inability of the
communities to recruit and retain qualified teachers; the need to align cultural and
attitudinal change to modernization and development; inadequate capacity at the
Secretariats of TCs to ensure sustainable management of the interventions; the need for a
more involving role of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Environment; and the need for fair balance between tangible and intangible interventions
in deprived communities.


viii.    Bank Performance in Lending and Supervision
The World Bank played a significant role in the lending process with its President being
personally involved in the initiation of the project idea with the Asantehene, giving the
project a high profile. The overall objectives were consistent with Government priorities
and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for 2000-2004. Although the Bank was
cooperative, protracted preparation process and public apprehension at the initial stages
of the lending process delayed effectiveness.

The Bank staff provided the PIUs and the Secretariats with the needed technical support
to facilitate effective and efficient implementation of the project. The Bank staff led at
least four supervision missions each year. They participated in workshops and meetings
to provide supervision. At least six such meetings and workshops were attended by the
staff in a year on the project. The Bank staff also helped in establishing linkage with
other IDA funded projects.

ix.     Borrower's Performance
In terms of preparation, the government was committed to the project objectives. MoFEP,
the regional administration and Secretariats of the two TCs participated effectively in the
project preparation and supported in carrying out most of the technical work.

Government implementation performance
The Government made available requisite human, physical and financial resources for
project implementation. Personnel from MoFEP, the RCCs of the two participating
regions and the district assemblies worked well together with the TCs, PIUs and the Bank
staff to achieve the project objectives and outcomes.

Implementing Agency
The Secretariats of the two TCs did well in coordinating the activities of the PIUs and
mobilizing financial resources from the DAs to pay the TAs counterpart fund
contributions. The implementation structures put in place in both TCs enabled effective



                                              42

functioning of the PIUs and facilitated prompt delivery of intervention activities and in
meeting reporting requirements at the various levels.

Procurement procedures and financial management procedures and requirements were
adequately followed. All withdrawals under Statement of Expenditures were made on the
prescribed Withdrawal Application Forms and supported with detailed transaction list
which referenced support documentation. Withdrawal applications were submitted at
regular intervals thus enabling the project to have funds for operation on continuous
basis. Audits were done promptly and Financial Management Reports prepared and
submitted quarterly. The quality of the reports was assessed by the World Bank to be
acceptable and consistent with the underlying records of the project and disbursement
data.

Recommendations

Based on the findings, recommendations have been provided to facilitate replication and
sustainability of the project approach and interventions. They include the need to enhance
participation of beneficiaries of project interventions from the very onset in order to
secure their ownership, commitment and sustainability; the need to strengthen the exit
and sustainability strategies including mainstreaming systems and structures as well as
the interventions into existing systems, structures and development agenda; and the need
to enhance the involvement of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Environment to facilitate its advocacy role for replication of the project approach.

Also recommended is the need to put more emphasis on building the capacities of the
Secretariats of the two TCs technically, professionally and financially to sustain the
project approach and interventions; and the need for fair balance between tangible and
intangible interventions in deprived communities to ensure ownership, commitment and
sustainability.




                                            43

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                    44

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Ghana Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2000-2004
PPTAP Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
MOFEP PPTAP ICR
PPTAP Beneficiary Assessment Report
AATC End of Project Report
AC third quarter FM report
Aide Memoirs
PSRs
ISRs
Records of interviews during ICR mission




                                        45

