Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18138
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IFI RESTRUCTURING AND
DIVESTITURE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3449-CO)
June 29, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1997)
Currency Unit = peso
US$1.00= 1,297.13 pesos
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BR           Colombia Central Bank
BVC          Constant value bonds
CFP          Popular Finance Corporation
CFs          Financial corporations
DFC          Development finance company
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IFI          Industrial Development Institute
IFIRDP       IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SME          Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises
BAH          Booz, Allen and Hamilton, Inc.
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Unit Director: Andres Solimano
Sector Management Unit Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Manager: James Hanna



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT.............................................................
A. BACKGROUND .........................................                                                           1
B. STATEMENT AND  EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................3
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................5
D. MAJOR  FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ..........................................9
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..........................................9
F. BANK PERFORMANCE .........................................                                                    10
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..........................................                                              10
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .........................................                                               10
I. FUTURE OPERATION .........................................                                                    11
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..........................................                                                11
Annex 1 - IFI Policy Letter
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
APPENDIX A: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization,



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IFI RESTRUCTURING AND DIVESTITURE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3449-CO)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) reviews the Colombia IFI
Restructuring and Divestiture Project (IFIRDP), for which a loan in the amount of
US$100 million equivalent was approved on March 24, 1992 and made effective on
September 21, 1993. The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, as originally
established. Total disbursements were $44.51 million, or 45% of the total loan, and the
last disbursement took place in the fourth quarter of FY95, after which time a balance of
$55.49 million was cancelled.
Preparation of this ICR is based upon a completion mission and review of the
project file carried out in May 1998 by Mr. Manuel Lasaga, consultant, who produced a
first draft ICR. The review of the draft and completion of the ICR was done by James
Hanna, current Task Manager, with the assistance of Ms. Maria Victoria Lister and Ms.
Lily Franchini. The borrower contributed indirectly to ICR preparation by providing
extensive consultation with the ICR mission and directly to it by preparing its own report,
which is included as Appendix A of this Report.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IFI RESTRUCTURING AND DIVESTITURE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3449-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    The Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI) was established in 1940, with the
objective of promoting the establishment of basic industry. With a record in the local
market as an inefficient state financial intermediary, it eventually became clear to the
Government and IFI during an era of intensive reform of the financial and real sectors
that substantial restructuring was needed. In order to support this process, the Bank
began preparation of this Project in March 1989.
ii.   Project Objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objectives
of the project were: "(i) to implement a divestiture and privatization program of IFI's
existing equity holdings; and (ii) to support the implementation of a new corporate
strategy for IFI which will reorient its role in industrial and financial sector development
by transforming it into a more efficient financial institution that can compete on an equal
basis in the financial markets". The SAR went on to state that achievement of these two
objectives would pave the way for the eventual privatization of IFI itself, for which a
specific plan would be drawn up under the project. Project components included an
investment divestiture program, an operational and financial upgrading program, a credit
program, and definition of a long-term corporate strategy.
iii.   Given the major trade policy and financial sector reforms which the Government
had undertaken prior to project preparation and IFI's relatively poor operating
performance at the time, the explicit objectives and components of the project were very
appropriate and mutually agreed. However, IFI's Policy Letter (attached as Annex 1)
was very tentative on the privatization objective and made a specific commitment only to
carry out a strategic analysis of its role as a publicly-owned institution and alternative
ownership structures, to be followed by a decision by the Government on the structure to
be adopted and a plan of action to implement it. Weaknesses in this important aspect of
objectives-setting and design phase of the project resulted later in discord between IFI
and the Bank, which led to closing the loan only half way through the disbursement
process.
iv.   Achievement of Objectives. The project objectives related to the divestiture
program, improvement in IFI's operating efficiency and financial health, and the
financing of specific development projects were substantially met. Notable trends over
1992-1997 include: (i) significant diversification in terms of its funding base; (ii)
dynamic growth of second-tier lending; (iii) a significant reduction in the relative size of
the investment portfolio with a modest improvement in its earnings, although with



ii
sizeable volatility; (iv) improvement in operating efficiency  as measured by
administrative expenses to total assets, and (v) financing of 18 industrial investments
with a total subloan value of $47.2 million and mobilization of remaining financing to
meet a total investment cost of $177 million.
v.    At the same time, action on a definition of a long-term strategy for IFI, while
meeting in strict terms IFI's commitments in its Policy Letter, did not achieve the Bank's
original vision of eventual privatization or its views on the appropriate balance between
first- and second-tier credit management activities within IFI. Despite attempts at the
Midterm Review to restructure the Project to fit within IFI's new corporate strategy, this
mismatch in views led to the closing of the loan in December 1997 as originally
established in the Loan Agreement without commitment of the second half of the loan.
vi.   Bank and Borrower Performance.   The Bank's performance and the
Borrower's performance in the IFIRDP were generally satisfactory. The Bank
appropriately helped to identify the need to restructure IFI in a way that would make it
more efficient in responding to the needs of the industrial sector and also helped craft a
realistic divestiture strategy for IFI's special case investments. However, in the design of
the Project, the Bank may have misread the Government's intention regarding the final
outcome for IFI. Greater dialogue between the Bank, IFI, and the Government on the
issue of privatization may have avoided subsequent misunderstandings. Closer attention
and early action as to the changing views concerning second-tier lending by IFI might
also have helped. At the same time, the Bank kept an open mind to the proposed changes
to IFI objectives and worked diligently to arrive at a realistic compromise regarding first-
tier and second-tier lending.
vii.  For its part, IFI worked diligently during project implementation and provided
ample information on the operations of the institution. At the same time, IFI's
management should have been more forthcoming with the Bank during Project
preparation regarding the problems with privatization of IFI. Also, when the expansion
into second-tier lending was first considered, IFI should have approached the Bank with a
proposal rather than wait until the Project was approaching Mid-term review.
viii. Overall Outcome. On the basis of the review of this project, including the
review of legal documents, supervision reports, and the findings of the ICR mission, the
IFIRD is rated partially satisfactory. The Project achieved its major immediate
objectives---improving  IFI's  operational  efficiency  and  financial  condition,
implementation of a divestiture program, financing of industrial development investments
and helping IFI to develop and diversify its sources of financing, especially from
international markets. Unfortunately, the original privatization objective was not a
realistic option and, in the Bank's view, the substantial co-mingling of first- and second-
tier lending functions is not a sound institutional strategy over the long-term. This, along
with likely continued strategic discontinuities created by IFI's relationship with the
Government, may possibly undermine the sustainability of the positive accomplishments
of the project.



iii
ix.   Future Operation. The diversification of financing sources of IFI have reduced
substantially the need for external financing from development assistance sources.
However, IFI maintains project support for specific programs from the IDB to finance
microenterprise development and stated in January 1998 that it was considering seeking
Bank support to fund second-tier rediscounting of credit to SME firms in the formal
sector. However, no such request has been received at the writing of this report.
Key Lessons Learned
o  In Project design, it is essential to get full commitment of the borrower at the time of
appraisal and Board presentation to key aims. In the case of IFI, privatization was not
a mutually agreed goal but left to future determination and discussed at Mid-term
review.
o  In contrast to macro or sector adjustment programs where reforms deal with general
policies, in the case of a project involving complex institutional restructuring,
objectives need to be simple, tried, and selective. The loan conditionality dealing with
specific efficiency criteria was clear and effective in providing IFI tangible
objectives.
o  Loan appraisal and early implementation should include an in-depth review of market
conditions, particularly when the project involves the restructuring of an organization
and promotion of new services. The decision that IFI would specialize in new first-
tier banking services would have benefited from a more thorough analysis of market
needs.
o  Divestiture of equity holdings comprised of privately held shares is a long drawn out
process, especially in those cases where they represent a controlling interest in a non-
viable corporation which needs major restructuring. In these situations, flexibility in
the design of conditionality is imperative. The IFIRDP succeeded in this objective by
giving IFI a flexible timetable, and with respect to the 24 class A companies, it
specified the targets in terms of cumulative companies divested, rather than specific
company names.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IFI RESTRUCTURING AND DIVESTITURE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3449-CO)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Following the external shocks and weaknesses in the economy during the first half
of the 1980s, the Government introduced an economic adjustment program designed to
achieve stabilization with growth. A distinguishing feature of the 1984-1987 economic
recovery was the impressive growth of the industrial sector. However, this growth was not
accompanied hy significant structural change. The importance of industry in Colombia was
lower than in other Latin American countries. The export orientation of most industries
remained relatively weak and, in most cases, below that of the 1970s.
2.    The administration that took office in August 1990 markedly increased the pace of
the economic reform program, strengthening macroeconomic management, reforming its
trade regime, restructuring and downsizing the public sector, liberalizing the industrial and
agricultural sectors and modernizing the financial sector. A modernization program,
apertura, focused on trade reform aimed at increasing competitiveness of the industrial
sector. The Bank's Industrial Restructuring and Development Program (Loan 3321-CO, or
the IRDP) supported government reforms in this area by providing policy change, program
support and financing to assist in the restructuring of affected firms.
3.    One of the impediments to the adjustment process was the inability of the financial
markets to respond efficiently to the new market needs created by the restructuring process.
Financial markets in Colombia had been characterized by a continuing lack of long-term
credit and underdeveloped capital markets, imperfect competition within the banking
sector, over-emphasis on collateral rather than project fundamentals in allocating credit, and
little interest in the needs of medium-scale enterprises. In 1990, Congress approved a
financial sector reform law, which authorized the Government to introduce the necessary
institutional and regulatory changes that would encourage an increase in the depth and
competitiveness of the financial system. The principal strategies of this program were: (a)
to facilitate market entry and exit for intermediaries; (b) to reduce the burden of reserve
requirements; (c) to phase out forced investments, except those mandated by law; (d) to
reorient the role of the public sector by increased specialization of 2d tier institutions; (e) to



2
liberalize interest rates; and (f) to allow subsidized credit only in the case of well-defined
target groups.'
4.    As the apertura program challenged local companies to become more competitive,
and the financial market reforms laid the groundwork for innovative financing schemes to
support industrial restructuring, the Government began to assess the role of the State-owned
banks in this process. The Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI) was established in 1940
with the objective of promoting through equity investments the establishment of basic
industry. It is a decentralized Government agency under the Ministry of Economic
Development. In addition, since 1963, IFI had been authorized to function as a finance
company (Corporacion Financiera, CF) with debt financing, like the 23 other CFs
operating in Colombia at the time of project preparation, and is currently the largest CF in
Colombia with 23 percent market share measured in terms of assets.
5.    Many of IFI's investments had fallen short of expectations and IFI also took over
ownership or management of parastatal enterprises that performed poorly, thus keeping
uneconomic enterprises in operation through repeated financings. A significant share of IFI
credits also went to enterprises in which it had an equity interest. In addition, historically,
IFI was known in the local market as an inefficient financial intermediary. For example,
during 1986-1990, return on assets averaged a loss of 0.36 percent per annum, while net
interest as percent of assets was a marginal 1.6 percent, with notable year-to-year
fluctuations.
6.    As a result of the accumulation of financial problems over time, combined with the
financing needs of the industrial sector engendered by the apertura program, it became
clear to the Government and IFI that the institution had to be restructured in all aspects. As
a result, IFI initiated its own restructuring, which included portfolio divestiture and internal
reorganization, and the restructuring and privatization of problematic parastatal enterprises
owned or managed by IFI. In order to support this process, the Bank began preparation of
this Project in March 1989. Helped by the diagnostic analysis performed by the firm of
Booz, Allen, and Hamilton, IFI developed a strategic plan and reached agreement with the
Bank for a restructuring and divestiture program in 1992, which was supported by a
US$100 million Bank loan approved by its Board in March of that year.
7.    From the Bank's perspective, the IFI operation represented an intensive institutional
focus which complemented the Bank's other involvement in Colombia's financial sector,
which began with DFC lending in 1966. At loan approval, the Bank had made nine DFC
loans to the Banco de la Republica (BR) to onlend through private CFs. Another five loans
were made to small and medium enterprises (SME), with the first four geared to the
specialized development bank for SME lending, the Corporacion Financiera Popular
(CFP), which was subsequently privatized in 1992.
I Colombia's Financial Policy Framework, 1990-94, Ministry of Finance, April 2, 1991



3
B. STA TEMENTAND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
8.    As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)2, the objectives of the project were:
(i) "to implement a divestiture and privatization program of IFI's existing equity holdings;
and (ii) to support the implementation of a new corporate strategy for IFI which will
reorient its role in industrial and financial sector development by transforming it into a
more efficient financial institution that can compete on an equal basis in the financial
markets". The SAR went on to state that achievement of these two objectives would pave
the way for the eventual privatization of IFI itself, for which a specific plan would be drawn
up under the project. The principal project components to achieve such objectives were as
follows:
Divestiture Program:
o Adoption of new investment policies that will establish clear criteria for
investing with strict exit strategies.
o Sale of IFI's shares in 24 industrial enterprises.
O Sale of IFI's shares or participation in six special case companies: Alcalis de
Colombia, Cerro Matoso, Concesion Salinas, Corporacion Andina de
Fomento(CAF), Monomeros Colombo Venezolano, and Productora de Papeles
(Propal).
Improvement in Operations and Financial Condition:
o New policies and procedures
o Training of management and staff.
O Design and implementation of a new MIS
o Resolution of the cumulative deficit accruing from the BVCs.
o Attain financial performance comparable to other CFs with respect to indicators
of administrative costs to assets and profitability
Financing of Specific Development Projects:
o IFI would lend directly to productive enterprises as a first-tier institution to
finance investment in fixed assets and working capital.
Definition of a long-term strategy:
o Establish new organizational structure
o Define ownership options, including privatization of IFI, and a plan of action to
implement the one decided upon by the Government
9.    While most project objectives were appropriately set and mutually agreed, this
appears not to be the case with regard to IFI's long-term corporate strategy. Underpinnings
of this issue began with project preparation, when IFI hired the consulting firm of Booz,
2 Staff Appraisal Report: Colombia: IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project, February 12, 1992, Report No.
10041-CO.



4
Allen, and Hamilton, Inc.(BAH) to evaluate IFI's current objectives and operations.3 The
BAH report made numerous recommendations which merged commercial, merchant and an
investment banking. In general, IFI was to become a provider of comprehensive financial
services to both large and medium-sized corporations. It would operate mainly as a first-tier
intermediary in the large-companies market and, as a second-tier institution, working
through other CFs and commercial banks, in the medium-sized corporations market. In
addition, IFI was to channel both long-term and short-term resources to the financial
markets. Among the product lines suggested by the report were: (a) corporate finance, such
as project finance and financial restructuring; (b) money market products; (c) investment
banking, such as mergers and acquisitions as well as a more aggressive posture in the
issuance of bonds and other securities; (d) financial advisory, such as financial engineering
and financial planning; and (e) venture capital, especially high tech investments in such
areas as biotechnology. In order to manage such diverse activities, the report recommended
the creation of an IFI holding company that would consist of four or five specialized
financial services companies.
10.   Some of the strengths of the BAH report were that it identified certain areas in need
of immediate attention, such as the problem of the BVCs (Bonos de Valor Constante),
which had generated a huge deficit that exceeded [FI's net worth at the time.4 It also called
for an end to the use of earmarked funds, which hindered IFI's ability to profitably re-
deploy its resources, and strongly endorsed the divestiture program. At the same time, the
report called on IFI to adopt a new product/market mix which would eventually require its
privatization. Perhaps in the face of such a wide-ranging strategy proposal, the Bank and
IFI did not develop a consensual view on this at the time of appraisal. The SAR provides
references, for example, to "a strategic analysis of ... a program of privatization of the
capital and the operation of IFI" (para 79). While the IFI Policy Letter approved by the
Board of Directors included a similar reference to "ultimately, as [project] objectives are
met, to privatize part or all of IFI itself',5 it committed itself to "conduct an analysis of its
role as a publicly owned institution and the alternative ownership structures that could be
selected in order to meet [the project] objectives... Based on this analysis, the Government
would decide on the ownership structure of IFI and the related plan of action to implement
it." Interviews during the ICR mission reflect that the Government and IFI's management
did not support the privatization of their institution and some considered that privatization
was not even a realistic strategy in view of IFI's long-time image in Colombia as a public
development finance institution.
11.   Clearly, to be feasible, the design of complex institutional restructuring design
needs to be responsive not only to country needs but to the institution's basic capabilities
and the views held by its stakeholders. Weaknesses in this important aspect of objectives-
3Desarrollo de un Plan estrategico: IFI, Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc., New York, October 1989
4 The BVCs were indexed bonds issued by IFI and purchased exclusively by the Social Security
Administration. While IFI paid real rates of interest on the BVCs, it lent them at subsidized interest rates. This
practice was stopped by the late 1980s; however, IFI had by then accumulated a sizeable deficit.
The IFI Board approved the Policy Letter on January 17, 1992, see SAR Annex I.



5
setting and design phase of the project resulted later in discord between IFI and the Bank,
which led to closing the loan only half way through the disbursement process.
C ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
12.   The project objectives related to the divestiture program, improvement in IFI's
operating efficiency and financial health, and the financing of specific development
projects were substantially met. Notable trends over 1992-1997 include: (i) significant
diversification in terms of its funding base; (ii) dynamic growth of second-tier lending; (iii)
a significant reduction in the relative size of the investment portfolio with a modest
improvement in its earnings, although with sizeable volatility; (iv) improvement in
operating efficiency as measured by administrative expenses to total assets, and (v)
financing of 18 industrial investments with a total subloan value of $47.2 million and
mobilization of remaining financing to meet total investment cost of $177 million. At the
same time, action on a definition of a long-term strategy for IFI, while meeting in strict
terms IFI's commitments in its Policy Letter, did not achieve the Bank's original vision of
eventual privatization or its views on the appropriate balance between first- and second-tier
credit management activities within IFI. Despite attempts at the Midterm Review to
restructure the Project to fit within IFI's new corporate strategy, this mismatch in views led
to the closing of the loan in December 1997 as originally established in the Loan
Agreement without commitment of the second half of the loan. The following provides
more detail.
13.   Divestiture Program. In 1994, the project helped IFI to adopt a new investment
policy, which emphasized profitabilty, focused on strategic sectors, and established clear
criteria for entry and exit. The establishment of limits on the amounts invested in a single
firm as well as the overall size of the investment portfolio was a positive contribution---it
now requires a ceiling on investments of 30 percent of the outstanding equity of a company
and must be a private sector enterprise. The exit strategy is now much more focused on the
successful transition of the enterprise from the initial business development period.
Regarding the sale of IFI's shares in 24 industrial enterprises, this condition has been met
substantially. While there were significant delays encountered during implementation, this
was not surprising in view of the rather illiquid nature of these shares. Out of the 24
companies, IFI has sold its shares in 15. Of the companies that have not been divested, four
are in the process or have already been liquidated, the investment in one has already been
written off, and the shares in the remaining four have not been sold off. Two of the four
companies whose shares have not been sold are considered to have a high social impact.
As to the sale of IFI's shares in six special case companies, two of the six companies have
been divested. However, in the case of Concesion Salinas, IFI managed the investment on
behalf of the Government according to a management agreement. Recently the Government
ruled in favor of IFI by recognizing that, as a party to a management contract, IFI did not
incur any liabilities but rather these belonged to the Government. Alcalis is in process of



6
liquidation, and in the case of Monomeros and Propal, their restructuring has postponed the
sale of IFI's shares.
14.   Operational improvements. The Project instilled much greater awareness within
IFI of the need to strengthen efficiency and led to significant improvements in operational
performance. In 1993, IFI reorganized its four subgerencias, replacing them by the
following five vice-presidencies: Commercial Operations, Finance, Credit Operations,
Operations, and Administration. The vice-presidency for Commercial Operations included
two departments, one in charge of promoting lending operations and the other responsible
for investment promotion. Policies and procedures manuals were updated in the areas of
credit and investments and an enhanced evaluation of risk assets is now applied to both
credit exposure and equity investments. Numerous training workshops and participation in
external educational programs have helped to enhance management and staff capabilities.
With the assistance of external consultants, IFI has developed a new MIS, which is
currently in the initial phase of implementation. The new system will allow consolidation of
management information across all functional areas and products. Once fully operational,
the new system will place IFI on the same technology platform as other CFs and
commercial banks and should bolster IFI's ability to competitively service its clients.
15.   Financial performance. Compared to other private sector CFs, IFI's financial
improvements performance over the project period are satisfactory. As per the Table
below, IFI's efficiency in terms of general administrative expenses as percent of total assets
improved considerably and earnings rose significantly between 1990-96, though they were
substantially lower in 1997.  Compared to other CFs, IFI's investment portfolio is
moderately lower relative to total assets and it has improved its leverage modestly to also
be comparable to private CFs.
Comnparison of IFI to Private Sector CFs
_IFI                 Private CFs
1990   1996    1997       1996     1997
Return on Assets                0.9%    2.1%    0.8%      2.1%     1.6%
Administrative Expenses/Assets    1.9%    1.3%   1.3%     1.5%     1.4%
Capital / Assets                33%    25.5%   22.2%    24.5%    24.0%
Past Due / Total Loans          NA    5.7%      5.7%      3.9%     3.5%
16.   Under the project, an important step in improving IFI's financial health was the
elimination of its BVC-related deficit. During loan preparation, IFI negotiated an
arrangement whereby the Government paid off IFI's liability to the Social Security
Administration arising from the BVCs. As per the agreement, IFI would repay the
Government's advance payment within four years, placing its shares of Propal and its
holdings of the debt instruments issued by Propal, as collateral. This agreement was made
effective on June 1991, and when it expired in June 1995, IFI was unable to eliminate its
debt, and for some technical reasons it was not possible to liquidate the Propal shares. At
that point, IFI swapped shares of Cerromatoso and Monomeros Colombo-Venezolanos for



7
the Propal shares. The successful sale of the Cerromatoso shares allowed IFI subsequently
to fulfill its full obligations to the Government for the BVCs in February 1997.
17.   The Project was also influential in helping IFI to develop and diversify its sources of
financing, especially with respect to international financial markets. In September 1995, IFI
raised $75 million through a syndicated loan led by Santander Investment Bank Ltd. In July
1996, IFI launched a successful program of medium-term Euronotes for $125 million led
by UBS. Again in March 1997, another loan syndication, this time led by Merrill Lynch,
allowed IFI to pre-pay the earlier loan and take advantage of the lower interest rates. These
operations are a tribute to IFI's very good standing in the international financial markets.
This Project had a positive impact on IFI's image abroad by depicting the Bank as a
business partner. In fact, by not canceling the Project after the restructuring terms were
turned down, the Bank continued to support IFI's strong image in the international financial
community. Overall, in line with the Project objectives, certificates of deposits 6 and bonds
represented 44.2 percent of total assets in 1997, up substantially from 12.2 percent in 1992
and representing a good core base of funding.
18.   Credit Program. As is typical of emerging markets, long-term funding is still
scarce in Colombia. There was a strong demand at the time due to the apertura program
and the need for many firms to modernize in order to succeed in the much more
competitive marketplace. The Project provided local firms with access to long-term
financing---a total of 18 subloans were approved for a total of $47.2 million, mostly in the
manufacturing and tourism sectors and a majority of which were larger scale. The program
financed about 27 percent of total project costs of $177 million. Twelve of the 18 subloans
were performing satisfactory at the time of this evaluation, two had been restructured, three
were in the legal process of collection, and one was in the process of liquidation. The
amount of the problem loans represented a relatively high 16 percent of the total subloan
amount.
19.   Based on the enterprises visited for this assessment, most of the loans were for plant
modernization. The principal advantages of the program extended by IFI were: (a) long-
term funding (the subloan maturities averaged 8.5 years); (b) the grace period; and (c) its
Dollar denomination. During the period that most of these sub-loans were disbursed, the
Peso appreciated significantly in real terms while domestic interest rates were relatively
high, making it very attractive to borrow in Dollars. Subsequently, several sub-loans were
pre-paid last year as the Government made Peso financing more attractive and sub-
borrowers became concerned of possible Peso devaluation in real terms.
20.   Overall, sub-borrowers were pleased with the service received from IFI under this
program, although some complaints were made regarding delays in processing of loan
collateral. In all cases for which interviews were held, the firms would have made the
investment even if the Bank's resources had not been available via their access to other
6 Because of cost advantages, certificates of deposits are used actively in Colombia as a source of medium-
term funding. Since IFI is not a retail bank, these certificates are placed with other financial institutions.



8
financial institutions. This may raise some questions about IFI's role as a direct lender to
larger enterprises, which tend to have a long track record and few problems accessing
financial markets, and reinforces the decision taken in the course of project implementation
by the Government for IFI to apply its limited resources to projects with greater social
impact at the micro- small and medium-scale enterprise level.
21.   Long-term corporate strategy. Towards year-end 1993, IFI began to develop
second-tier lending operations in view of the Central Bank's exit from this type of activity.
This additional role of IFI was endorsed by Colombia's new Government in September
1994, which had also identified the democratization of credit in Colombia as one of its
priorities under its Plan Nacional para la Microempresa. Subsequently, under Law 188
approved by Congress in June 1995, IFI was designated as the leading Government-owned
bank for lending to micro, small- and medium-sized enterprises.    By May  1996, IFI
began to institutionalize its second-tier lending activities through organizational changes.
Lending activities were assigned two distinct vice-presidencies, one for first-tier and the
other for second-tier lending. The Plan Nacional de Desarrollo gave IFI the responsibility
of carrying out two programs, first PROPYME, for small and medium scale enterprises
(SMEs) and FINURBANO, for microenterprises. IFI was subsequently quite aggressive in
pursuing its second tier lending operations. In terms of new disbursements, second-tier
lending went from 22 percent of the total in 1994, to 61 percent in 1997. However, most of
the increase was due to the sharp increase in lending to large corporations. The share of
FINURBANO and PROPYME disbursements actually went from 22.3 percent in 1994 to
29.8 percent in 1997.
22.   These events further solidified the Government's position that IFI would not be
privatized and rather expanded the public sector role for the institution in financing
industrial development, materially altering the original process of developing a long-term
corporate strategy. When the Project reached the Midterm Review period, which had been
triggered by the approval of the first $45 million in sub-loans, the change in IFI policies led
to a protracted negotiation to restructure the Project. The key issue was the IFI's strategy of
pursuing both first- and second-tier lending activities. The Bank objected to this strategy
due to a perceived conflict-of-interest that could arise whenever IFI would lend directly to a
client to which at the same time it is rediscounting as a second-tier institution a loan from
another bank. Thus, the Bank supported restructuring only if lending would be limited to
second-tier, accompanied by a phase-out of first-tier lending and investing. A compromise
was apparently reached in mid-1997 along the following lines: IFI would embark on a
transition to mainly second-tier lending, while first-tier loans would be made in the
following specific cases: (i) restructuring of enterprises which are experiencing financial
difficulties, including enterprises which have applied for bankruptcy protection; (ii) project
with a high technological content; and (iii) projects geared to environmental improvement
and which cannot be financed through rediscounting.7 However, in November 1997, IFI's
Board of Directors refused to accept the new proposal and reaffirmed its decision target of
40:60 direct loan to rediscount loan mix. Since the original closing date of the Project had
'7 Mid-term Review Report and Proposal to Amend the Loan, June 27, 1997.



9
been slated for December of that year, the Bank decided to let the Project expire rather than
go through the cancellation procedures.
D. ALJOR FACTORSAFFECTING THE PROJECT
23.   A strong Government commitment to liberalization of financial markets and
increased sector efficiency was an essential underpinning to the development of the Project.
The period of implementation coincided with a healthy expansion of the world economy
and a doubling of coffee prices, which in turn provided a boost to Colombia's own rapid
expansion during 1992-1995, and excellent macroeconomic management also contributed
indirectly to the improvement in IFI's performance. The Apertura program introduced by
President Barco during his last year in office, and expanded by his successor, President
Gaviria, set in motion a program to liberalize the external trade regime, accelerate the
reform of public services and develop an internationally competitive private sector. The
financial sector reforns also encouraged IFI to apply market-oriented criteria and to focus
on the efficiency and competitiveness of its services. In general, the Government was
committed to the explicit objectives of the Project but, as stated earlier, did not accept the
goal of privatizing IFI.
24.   This problem was exacerbated by the rapid turnover of IFI's management. During
Project design and implementation, there were six Presidents of IFI, and as normally
happens in any organization, each brought with him new goals, ideas, and management.8 At
the shareholder level, changes in Government also brought new changes in IFI's goals and
organizational structure that went beyond or were in conflict with the original project terms
and conditions and led to restructuring attempts. This situation is in sharp contrast with a
private firm where the shareholders are active in the business and often stay the course for a
longer period of time.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   The sustainability of objectives supported by the project---essentially to provide
industrial sector financial services under a well-focused corporate strategy while
maintaining financial and operational efficiency comparable to private CFs---is moderately
uncertain.  It is affected by significant risks stemming from  its relationship with
Government, which in particular involve a lack of policy and management continuity.
Frequent management changes reflecting shifting Government views on the subject of
development financing are not conducive to sustainability of the institutional performance
a The presidents were: Eduardo Robayo, April 1988 - August 1990; Rodrigo Villamizar, August 1990 -
December 1991; Luis Alberto Moreno, December 1991 - July 1992; Gustavo Canal, July 1992 - August
1994; Carlos Wolff Isaza, August 1994 -January 1996; and Gabriel Borrero, January 1996 -.



10
achieved under the project. One of the near-term challenges to project sustainability will be
the change in Government expected in August of this year.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
26.   The Bank appropriately helped to identify the need to restructure IFI in a way that
would make it more efficient in responding to the needs of the industrial sector. The Bank
help to craft a realistic divestiture strategy for IFI's special case investments. However, in
the design of the Project, the Bank may have misread the Government's intention regarding
the final outcome for IFI. The BAH report may have given wrong signals to the Bank
regarding the privatization strategy, since most of their recommendations dealt with IFI's
new role in investment and merchant banking. Greater dialogue between the Bank, IFI, and
the Government on the issue of privatization may have avoided subsequent problems by
reaching a definitive agreement early on in the process. Closer attention and early action as
to the changing views concerning second-tier lending by IFI might also have helped. At the
same time, the Bank kept an open mind to the proposed changes to IFI objectives and
worked diligently to arrive at a realistic compromise regarding first-tier and second-tier
lending.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.  IFI worked diligently during project implementation and was cooperative with the
Bank. Numerous reports were produced to keep the Bank abreast of IFI's activities. IFI has
a good reputation for the quality of its professionals and the success in tapping the
international financial markets among other things is a tribute to its management
capabilities and experience. There is ample information on the operations of the institution,
and the staff responded swiftly to the Bank's information requirements. At the same time,
management should have been more forthcoming with the Bank during Project preparation
regarding the problems with privatization of IFI. Also, when the expansion into second-tier
lending was first considered, IFI should have approached the Bank with a proposal rather
than wait until the Project was approaching Mid-term review.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
28. ' On the basis of the review of this project, including the review of legal documents,
supervision reports, and the findings of the ICR mission, the IFIRD is rated partially
satisfactory. The Project achieved its major immediate major objectives---improving IFI's
operational efficiency and financial condition, implementation of a divestiture program,
and financing of industrial development investments. Unfortunately, the original
privatization objective was not a realistic option and, in the Bank's view, the substantial co-



11
mingling of first- and second-tier lending functions is not a sound institutional strategy over
the long-term. This, along with likely continued strategic discontinuities created by IFI's
relationship with the Government, may possibly undermine the sustainability of the positive
accomplishments of the project.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
29.   The diversification of financing sources of IFI have reduced substantially the need
for external financing from development assistance sources. However, IFI maintains
project support for specific programs from the IDB to finance microenterprise development
and stated in January 1998 that it was considering seeking Bank support to fund second-tier
rediscounting of credit to SME firms in the formal sector. However, no such request has
been received at the writing of this report.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
o  In Project design, it is essential to get full commitment of the borrower at the time of
appraisal and Board presentation to key aims. In the case of IFI, privatization was not a
mutually agreed goal but left to future determination and discussed at Mid-term review.
o  In contrast to macro or sector adjustment programs where reforms deal with general
policies, in the case of a project involving complex institutional restructuring,
objectives need to be simple, tried, and selective. The loan conditionality dealing with
specific efficiency criteria was clear and effective in providing IFI tangible objectives.
o  Loan appraisal and early implementation should include an in-depth review of market
conditions, particularly when the project involves the restructuring of an organization
and promotion of new services. The decision that IFI would specialize in new first-tier
banking services would have benefited from a more thorough analysis of market needs.
o  Divestiture of equity holdings comprised of privately held shares is a long drawn out
process, especially in those cases where they represent a controlling interest in a non-
viable corporation which needs major restructuring. In these situations, flexibility in the
design of conditionality is imperative. The IFIRDP succeeded in this objective by
giving IFI a flexible timetable, and with respect to the 24 class A companies, it
specified the targets in terms of cumulative companies divested, rather than specific
company names.



12
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project
IFI Policy Letter
January 17, 1992
Introduction
1.        Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI) was established in 1940 with the
objective of promoting the establishment of basic industry and the initial
transformation of domestic raw materials to substitute imported raw materials.
This was in accordance with Colombia's import substitution model of development.
IFI's role was basically to invest where the private sector was not willing to
invest due to high initial investment costs and higher than normal commercial
risk.   In addition, since 1963, IFI has been authorized to function as a
development bank, lending to industrial firms directly or through other financial
institutions.
2.        In its early years, IFI made direct investments in the food, beverages,
tobbaco, chemicals, basic metals, and textile industries. Since 1975, emphasis
has shifted to the promotion of exports (such as ferronickel and coal) which
Government supported after the unexpected increase in petroleum prices.   In
recent years, IFI has tended to concentrate its investments in a few enterprises.
This was a likely development as IFI's sources bf finance have been relatively
limited and the typical investment for IFI was in relatively large projects. A
significant share of IFI credit has gone to enterprises in which IFI has an
equity share.
3.        In retrospect, many of IFI's investments fell short of expectations.
IFI often has felt obliged as a public sector institution to enter into
politically motivated  investments.   IFI has also, taken over ownership or
management o. parastatal enterprises that have performed poorly, keeping
uneconomic enterprises in operation through repeated financings. This has slowed
or prevented the exit of unprofitable public enterprises, and has led to a drain
on IFI's resources.   In some cases in which other investors have failed to
provide their share of investment costs, or where there have been cost overruns
or large operating losses, IFI has been forced to step in to provide additional
resources.
4.        As the result of the accumulation of financial problems over time, it
became clear to Government and IFI that the institution had to be restructured
in all aspects. As a result IFI initiated its financial restructuring, portfolio
divestiture and internal reorganization, and the restructuring and privatization
of problematic parastatal enterprises owned or managed by IFI.   The most
significant financial issue has been the resolution of the accumulated deficit
of the Bonos de Valor Constante (BVC) Fund.
5.        All of these issues are currently being addressed by  Government and
IFI, witl substantial achievements in all areas. Particular progress has been
achieved ir defining IFI's corporate mission and product/market strategy, in



13
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
restructuring its financing and credit policies, and in accelerating its
portfolio divestiture. These transition moves have been accompanied by a
strengthening in various operational capabilities and a substantial internal
reorganization.
General Context
6.        IFI's role in industrial development.   The reorientation of IPI's
operations must be placed within the framework of the trade reform program
initiated as an element of the "Programa para la Modernizaci6n de la Economia
Colombiana" and continued by the current Government. IFI's strategy is designed
to address the need for industrial restructuring and facilitate the export supply
response to the trade reform. The program creates the need for financing new
firms, products, and technologies, with a wider range of financial instruments.
In addition, IFI's new role complements the Government's efforts to strengthen
public sector management, promote private sector development, and improve the
allocation of public sector resources.   Specifically, IFI's operations will
address the following industrial development issues:
o     The trade reform program creates the need for long term credit to finance
the restructuring of enterprises and for financing the acquisition of new
technologies in order to modernize production techniques and improve
international competitiveness.
o     This additional need for credit occurs precisely at a time when the
private financial sector's capability to support new investments and
industrial restructuring, in addition to the expected growth in imports,
is insufficient.
3     Restructuring requires more than credit:  an entire pool of financial
services will be necessary to support industrial enterprises in their
adjustment efforts.   In addition,  financial institutions involved in
restructuring can only succeed if a close and direct relationship with the
customer is maintained.
O     The need for financing is especially acute for medium scale enterprises,
as this market segment currently receives a disproportionately low share
of credit relative to its production and needs.
o     Financial intermediaries tend to make credit decisions based on collateral
rather  than on projected project profitability  or cash flow.   The
reallocation of productive resources required during the trade reform
program will require a more efficient allocation of financial resources to
sectors in which Colombia enjoys a comparative and/or a competitive
advantage.
O     The new trade policy regime implies greater levels of risk for financial
institutions. Close contact with and knowledge of the industrial sector-
are prerequisites for sound risk management.



14
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
7.        IFI's role as a financial institution.  IFI's comparative advantages
as a financial institution include its knowledge of the industrial sector and its
close contact with industrial enterprises; its large size in a relatively small
financial sector; and its access to external sources of funds.   In its new
strategy, IFI's comparative advantages will be related to a more focused
financial support business.   The historical emphasis on large investments
followed by credit support will be replaced by financing of more modest scope in
conjunction with other financial institutions.  IFI will act mainly as a credit
institution, limiting direct investments to venture and seed capital, and will
focus on the market segment of medium scale enterprises. Unless otherwise agreed
within the context of the Financial Policy Framework of April 2, 1991, IFI will
operate as a first tier credit institution.
8.        IFI will offer a broad array of financial instruments, in order to
provide integrated financial support to industrial enterprises. IFI's financial
services will include assistance to determine optimal financial structures, the
provision of loans directly or through loan syndication with other
intermediaries, underwriting and assistance to find and coordinate the provision
of complementary sources of financing, and taking temporary equity positions via
minority share participations for the provision of seed/venture capital.
9.        IFI will play a catalytic role in financial markets by developing
packages of financial instruments and cofinancing arrangements with other
institutions to finance individual projects. Thus IFI will stimulate financial
sector development by cofinancing and coinvesting, promoting competition, and
stimulating financial innovation.
10.       In summary, the restructured IFI will focus its financial services on:
o     the provision of medium and long term credit as a first tier financial
institution;
o     financing new firms, products, technologies, and markets;
o     helping to finance the industrial restructuring program in Colombia;
o     evaluation criteria for credit allocation based on project profitability
and cash flow;
o     stimulating financial sector development by underwriting and participating
in packages of financing with other financial institutions;
o     quick and efficient approval and disbursement processes; and
o     the promotion of competition in the financial sector through a more
proactive and market oriented strategy that offers the industrial sector
a wider and more attractive set of products and services.



15
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Obiectives
11.       The basic objectives of a restructured IFI are:
o     to finance industrial sector development;
o     to promote financial sector development;
o     to operate under financial performance criteria equivalent to those of
privately owned financial institutions; and
o     ultimately, as these objectives are met, to privatize part or all of IFI
itself.
Policies
12.       Target market.  IFI will initially focus its industrial financing on
the market segment of medium scale enterprises (currently estimated as firms with
total assets between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$25 million).  In
addition, within its financial capabilities, it will finance and will prepare
financial packages for large scale enterprises.
13.       Lendin2 policies.    IFI's  interest rates will  be maintained  at
commercial market rates, i.e., DTF or TCC (for Pesos) and US PRIME or LIBOR (for
Dollars) plus a spread adequate to cover intermediation costs, maturity, risk,
and a normal profit. IFI will mainly provide medium and long term credit, as
required by the financing needs of the project.   IFI will limit its credit
exposure to any individual client to ten percent of IFI's equity.   Credit
evaluation will be based on the project's financial, and if appropriate economic,
viability and the cash flow prospects of the enterprise and project, supplemented
by appropriate collateral.   IFI will offer both local and foreign-currency
denominated loans according to the financing needs of individual projects, and
will continue to build its letter of credit operations.
14.       Investment policies.  In accordance with its new strategy, IFI will
make equity investments in order to promote industrial development, by playing
a catalytic role in the creation, expansion and rehabilitation of new projects.
The investment policies will be the following:
o     an adequate economic *and financial rate of return;
o     exposure limits of equity and loan financing combined of no more than ten
percent of IFI's equity and of equity participation of no more than thirty
percent of the total equity of the enterprise;
o     such investments will require a clear definition of IFI's exit strategy.
In any case, the maximum time span of IFI's investments should be around
five years or less;



16
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
o     consideration  will  be  given  to  quasi-equity  instruments,  such  as
convertible debentures or subordinated debt with warrants, such that IFI
will receive a return on its investment and have the opportunity to
benefit from their conversion privileges.
o     the total of IFI's new investments will be limited to a pool of funds.
The pool would initially be the peso equivalent of no more than U$35
million, and future size would be determined by the success overtime of
these investments;
o     priority will be given to projects involving exports, new products,
markets, or technologies, as well as syndication and the attraction of
foreign direct investment. Nonetheless, the decision for an investment
will be determined, essentially, by the economic and financial feasibility
of the project.
15.       Fee-based business.  Fee-based business will be derived from corporate
advisory services, restructuring services, and syndication, trust, and other
services.
16.       Sources of funds.  IFI will rely on market sources of funds in local
and foreign markets, including inter alia term deposits, credit lines
rediscounted through the Banco de la Republica, direct investment through capital
markets, bonds, external commercial banks, and bilateral institutions, and will
phase out any subsidized sources of funds. Official multilateral sources will
be considered a transitional source of funds.
17.       Financial performance criteria. IFI's general financial objective will
be to generate sufficient earnings and make substantial dividend payments to
attract both market sources of funds and private investment, which will
eventually allow IFI to attract significant private participation in its capital
structure. IFI will develop a concise financial strategy covering the following
areas: profitability, liquidity, portfolio management, leverage, and dividend
payout policy.
Plan of Action
18.       In order to achieve its objectives and stated policies, IFI and the
Government will implement the following plan of action:
Financial restructurinz of IFI:
o     resolution of IFI's liability for the deficit in the BVC Fund and its
transfer of fiduciary responsibility and fund management to a third party;
o     implementation of the 1991-1994 divestiture program;
o     establishment of an independent entity, that would receive IFI's shares in
Cerro Matoso and Monomeros,  and if applicable, also in Alcalis.   The
structure of this new entity, as well as the mechanism for the transfer of



17
ANtEX I
Page 6 of 6
the shares, would be defined and put in place not later than December 31,
1994. This scheme should ensure the financial independence between IFI
and these enterprises. It would also allow IFI to fulfill its mandate of
being a promoter of new investments, as opposed to an industrial holding
company.
Operational strengthening:
o     implementation of new policies and procedures;
o     design, development, and implementation of new control and management
information systems;
o     reorganization of the internal audit function;
o     development and implementation of a promotional and marketing strategy.
Internal reorganization of IFI:
o     establishment of the new organizational structure;
o     development and implementation of a plan to retrain, recruit, and retrench
staff.
Definition of lonx-term strategv:
o     IFI will carry out, with the assistance of a merchant or investment bank,
an analysis of its role as a publicly owned institution and the
alternative ownership structures that could be selected in order to meet
the objectives stated in para 11. This analysis should also include the
definition of the strategies to implement the possible alternatives
proposed.
o     Based on this analysis,  the Goverracent will decide on the ownership
structure of IFI and the related plan of action to implement it.



18
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:         Summary of Assessment
Table 2:         Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:         Project Timetable
Table 4:         Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A:        Project Costs
Table 5B:        Project Financing
Table 6:         Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 7:         Bank Resources: Missions
Table 8:         Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9A-J:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation



19
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                       O               E                El
Sector Policies                     E               E                 EO
Financial Objectives                                I]               [                  I]
Institutional Development           [               E3                                  El
Physical Objectives                 E                E                El
Poverty Reduction                   E                E                El
Gender Issues                                                         E3
Other Social Objectives             E                E                El
Environmental Objectives            E                E                El
Public Sector Management            E               E                 El
Private Sector Development          E                                 El                El
Other (specify)                     E                E                El
B. Project Sustainabilitv              Likely                  Unlikely                    Moderately
Uncertain
(9')                      (9')                      (9')
Highly                Generallv
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory          Satisfactorv               Deficient
(9')                     (9')                      (9')
Identification                      E                                                   El
Preparation Assistance              E                                                   El
Appraisal                           E                                                   El
Supervision                         E                                                   El



20
Highly        Generally
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactorv    Satisfactory    Deficient
(/1)           (/)             (/)
Preparation                                                                [
Implementation                                              i:
Covenant Compliance                          E              I               D
Operation (if applicable)                    Cl             E               E
Highly      Partiallv                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactorv    unsatisfactory
(I)                             El)                El)(



21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
{Year of1
Loan/Credit title                Purpose        approval j    Status
Preceding operations
Credit line            1984    Closed 06/90
1. DFC IX                             Sector Investment      1991    Closed 03/98
2. Industrial Restructuring
Following Operations                                          1993
1997
1. Export Development (3608)
2. Finan.Mkts.Dev.T.A. (4196)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned      Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification (Executive Project                              1/13/89
Summary)
Preparation                               26 months            3/6/91
Appraisal                                   5/91               5/5/91
Negotiations                                11/90             12/16/91
Board presentation                          1/91              3/24/92
Signing                                                       6/21/93
effectiveness                               5/92              9/21/93
Mid-Term Review                             01/94               3/97
Project Completion                                            12/31/97
Loan closing                                                  12/31/97



22
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
I_________ |P FY92  IFY93    FY94    FY95  | FY96  | FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate     3.0       13.8        41.0        68.7        89.0        96.7       100.0
Actual          ~0.0        0.0         5.0       30.26       44.51
Actual as % estimate                     .
Date of Final Disbursement: November 13, 1995
Table 5A: Project Costs
Estimated costs              Appraisal Estimate (US$M)             Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
________    Local  Foreign        Total       Local      Foreign         Total
Credit Program             249.7          161.0       410.7        106.5        70.5            177.0
Technical Assistance          1.7           2.9          4.6         1.4         2.1              3.5
TOTAL                      251.4          163.9       415.3        107.9        72.6            180.5
Table 5B: Project Financing
I Financing Plan             Appr aisal Estimate b(USSM)           Actual/latest estimate -US$M)
Local     Foreign       Total        Local       Foreign         Total
World Bank Loan               1.1       98.9          100.0                 44.5           44.5
IFI Funds                  127.1                      127.1    35.9         28.1           64.0
BR Rediscount Lines                     65.0           65.0                                  0
Firms'Intemal Funds        123.2                      123.2    72.0                        72.0
Total                      251.4       163.9         415.3    107.9         72.6           180.5
1 Estimated



23
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                Revised                  Actual
Stage of Project Cycle    Weeks    US$    Weeks        US$         Weeks       US$
Preparation to
Appraisal               NA                                          43.6        106.7
Appraisal               NA                                          12.4        32.7
Negotiations through
Board Approval          NA                                          8.7         23.4
Supervision              43        102.2   53          132.9        76.3        191.3
Completion              NA                                          4.0         9.4
TOTAL                    43        102.2   53          132.9        145         363.5



24
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project    Month/  Number   Days in   Specialized   Implemen-    Develop-    Types of
Cycle             Year     Of        Field      Staff skills   tation      ment         problems
Persons             Represented   Status        Objectives
Through appraisal  1990/91  5                   Sr. Econ,
Cons., Eng.,
Sr. Oper. Off.
Appraisal through   1991/92  1                  Sr. Oper.Off.
Board approval
Cons., Fin.
Supervision      7/93      2                    Specialist         1            1
Sr. Oper.Off.,
8/94     2                    Consultant         S            S
11/94    1                   Sr. Oper.Off.       S            S
5/95     1                    Sr. Oper. Off.    U             S
Sr. Oper.Off,
Res. Rep,
04/96    3                    Cons.             U             S
Sr. Oper.Off,
02/97    2                    Res. Rep.         U             S
Partially    Partially
Completion                                                    Satisfactory   Satisfactory



25
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
COLOMBIA: IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project (Ln. 3449-CO)
Agreement                           Legal                   Current status
Covenants
A. Financial Performance
Maintain adequate operational efficiency. Requires an  Section 3.05  Complied
administrative cost ratio no higher than 1 10% of the ratio of
private CFs for 1994 onwards (no higher than 130% for               Relevant ratio has been as follows:
1993)                                                               1990: 179%        1994
1991: 2190/o      1995
1992: 132%        1996   87%
1997   92%
Make efficient use of the public resources invested in IFI, by Section 3.06  Has not complied
providing an adequate return on equity (90% of the ROE of
private CFs for 1994 onwards, 60% for 1993)                         Relevant ratio has been as follows:
1990: N/S 1994 35.5%
1991: 51% 1995 45.2%
1992: 45% 1996 3.1%
1997: 43.9%
From 1993 onwards, IFI will not rely anymore on     Section 3.07    Complied
Government transfers for its new resources (stated as "resort
to the financial markets as the only source of domestic             Borrowing from BR only 0.5% of assets.
funding for its operations)                                         Substantial increase in insurance of bonds.
From 1993 onwards, IFI will distribute cash dividends  Section 4.04  Complied
Dividends made to shareholder (see table 5C)
B. Project Execution
Implement the Project in accordance with its stated  Section 3.01 and  Not complied
objectives and the Statement of Policy (policy Letter of  5.01 (a)
January 7, 1992)                                                    New policy in 1994 introduced 2nd tier
lending
Resolution of the BVC (Bonos de Valor Constante) deficit  Sections 4.06,   Complied
problem.                                            5.01(d) and
The mid-term condition requires that IFI either sell the  Schedule 8.4  Debt to Government has been paid off.
Proposal assets pledged or constitute a financial reserve
(provision) to pay the outstanding BVC debt
C. Divestiture of IFI's equity investments
Four-year program for divestiture of IFI's non-strategic  Section 4.05  Complied substantially:
investments (the "B" companies). The minimum                        As of 12/30/97 15 companies sold, four in
(cumulative) number required is 13 companies as of                  process of liquidation, one written off, one in
12/31/93, 19 as of 12/31/94, and 24 as of 12/31/95.                 offering process, two not sold due to social
impact, and one to be sold after expected
improvement in valuation.
Divestiture of Alcalis, through sale of IFI's shares or sale of  Sections 4.07,   Complied:
Alcalis' two plants, or (alternatively) irreversible closure and 5.01(b) and
liquidation of the two plants. These final goals had to be  Schedule 8.5    In final liquidation process
reached by December 31, 1994. The mid-term condition
requires that one plant be sold or liquidated, and that the
remaining investment of IFI in Alcalis be sold (or transferred
to a trust fund as an intermediate step for the subsequent sale
of it.



26
Agreement                               Loan                      Current Status
Covenants
Development of a strategic plan of viable options for    Schedules 2.B.3   Complied:
Concesion Salinas which will determine under what        and B.2
conditions the combination of restructuring and partial                   Resolved legal problems concerning the
privatization of the venture may be feasible.                             contract and in the process of passing on the
As a mid-term condition: Termination of Concesion Salinas                  concession to a new legal entity.
and of IFI's obligations thereunder, and irreversible transfer
of those obligations to a trust fund, all in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and on the basis of the findings and
conclusions of the study(ies) required for the above strategic
plan.
Divestiture of IFI's shares in CAF                       Section 4.08     Complied:
The investment was divested in mid-1994
through transfer of IFI's shares to the
Govemment.
Preparation of a strategic analysis of IFI's investment in  Section 5.01l  Complied:
Cerro Matoso, including a review of the alternative      and Schedules
ownership structures for the company and the appropriate    2.B.4 and 8.1  Shares sold 2/18/97
timing for these alternatives.
As a mid-term condition, either: (i) sale of IFI's shares to a
private investor, or (ii) Completion of a plan of action for the
irreversible transfer (by not later than 12/31/95) of IFI's
shares in Cerro Matoso to a trust fund as an intermediate
step to the subsequent disposal of such shares, on the basis of
the findings and conclusions of the study(ies) required for the
above strategic analysis.                                                _
Preparation of a strategic analysis of IFI's investment in  Section 5.01l  Complied substantially:
Monomeros, including an analysis of alternative ownership   and Schedules
structures for the company. As a mid-term condition, either: 2.B.5 and B.3  Action plan completed, evaluating options
(i) sale of Ifi's shares to a private investor or other                   proposed by A-D. Little and Co.
shareholders; or (ii) Completion of a plan of action for the
irreversible transfer (by no later than 12/31/95) of IFI's
shares in Monomeros to a trust fund as an intermediate step
to the subsequent disposal of such shares, on the basis of the
findings and conclusions of the study(ies) required for the
above strategic analysis.
Future role and strategy for IFI: The ultimate goal of the  Section 3.03 (D)  Not complied:
project is to restructure the institution and transform it into a  and Schedule  Privatization of IFI was not a viable option
more efficient financial institution that can compete on an    2.B.6      and as of 1994, IFI operates as first and
equal basis in the financial markets and, in the process,                 second tier lending institution.
enhancing competition in such markets and filling gaps in
financial services.
For the mid-term review, the specific agreement in this
respect calls for the development of a strategy for the
privatization of IFI, and the subsequent definition, based on
this strategy, of an action plan to implement it.



Table 9A IFIRDP: Sub-loans
Date of    Amount of      Balance                Spread wrt Sub-project     Sub-loan
Sub-Borrower               Disbursement         Loan   Outstanding  Tenor  Grace      LIBOR       Costs    Compliance
(US$s)       (US$s)  years  years                 (US$s)
1 Biofilm Ltd.                   07/15/94  $2,191,655.67       $0.00      8     3.0         5 $30,392,073    Satisfactory
2 Hotel Santa Clara              05/03/94  $7,500,000.00  $7,149,999.72  10     3.5         5 $24,869,750    Satisfactory
3 Hotel Valle Real               12/20/93   $245,000.00   $245,000.00    10     3.0         5  $2,029,447   Legal Collection
4 Hotel La Cascada                12/14/94  $1,205,000.00  $1,204,860.26  10    2.0       6.25  $7,047,337 Restructured in 12/96
5 Inversiones Araujo Perdomo     12/22/93   $500,000.00   $125,000.00     5     1.0         4  $7,365,853    Satisfactory
6 Ingenio Pichichi               05/27/94  $2,600,000.00  $2,455,933.34  12     3.0        5.4  $4,387,804    Satisfactory
7 Inhoteles S.A.                 05/27/94   $549,000.00   $343,125.00     6     2.0        4.5  $1,012,840    Satisfactory
8 Industrial Colombiana de Llantas  03/15/95 $10,580,744.48  $9,835,549.48  10  3.5         5 $31,352,380    Satisfactory
9 Lab. Gener. Farmac. Gen-Far S.}  06/01/94  $1,260,000.00  $1,074,375.00  10   3.0         5  $3,225,333    Satisfactory
10 Lloreda Grasas                 05/11/94  $4,538,000.00  $3,687,125.00  10    2.0          5 $15,430,487    Satisfactory
11 Minipak S.A.                   07/19/94  $4,396,802.00       $0.00     10     3.0        6.5  $8,120,000    Satisfactory
12 Monofil Ltd.                   05/27/94   $240,000.00   $111,420.00     6     1.0        5.5   $449,015   Legal Collection
13 Materiales de Colombia S.A.    07/28/94  $2,891,200.00  $2,268,000.00   7     3.5        4.4  $9,756,097 Restructured 11/97
14 PapelesyCartonesS.A.           09/23/94  $3,629,352.09  $2,717,913.69   7     2.5         6 $12,225,333    Satisfactory
15 Quimica Internal S.A.          11/02/94  $1,675,000.00  $1,675,000.00   5     2.5         6  $3,372,024    Satisfactory
16 Schalge Lock de Colombia S.A.  10/19/94   $209,200.00   $209,200.00    10    4.0          5    $810,186    Satisfactory
17 Quimica Industrial y Textil S.A.  11/02/94   $937,289.10     $0.00      8     2.5        6.1  $8,368,047    Liquidation
18 Sociedad Hotelera Las Acacias  06/01/94  $2,040,000.00  $2,040,000.00  10     3.0         5  $6,819,512   Legal Collection
Total/Average             $47,188,243.34 $35,142,501.49  8.6    2.7        5.3 $177,033,518



28
Table 9B IFI: Divestiture Program
Date of
(millions of pesos)            Initial    Initial   Date of   Sales
Investment     Cost       Sale      Price
I COSEDA                       12/06/88      13.2  06/01/91     255.3
2 COPESCOL                     10/31/83    227.8  07/01/91      956.2
3 PROVICA                      06/23/86     47.1  09/01/91       66.7
4 TEXPINAL                     12/30/74     214.8  09/01/91    3,534.3
5 PROCARBON                    07/09/82      3.5  09/01/91    9,493.2
6 PRODESAL                     05/25/82     377.7  10/01/91    2,164.4
7 FERTICOL                     03/03/66       1.3  04/01/92       1.3
8 PENNWALT                     11/02/77     81.0  11/01/92    1,222.8
9 FATEXTOL                     08/16/88    280.0  02/01/93      540.0
10 FRIGOPESCA                   12/29/79    571.2  12/01/94    2,511.6
11 INTELSA                      09/17/79      11.9  04/01/95     129.6
12 CONASTIL                     05/22/69    1,013.8  01/30/92    1,013.8
13 QUIBI                        06/10/88    128.5  04/10/96      578.1
14 Artesanias de Colombia       09/01/68    104.6 Sales delayed due to social impact
15 Cartones de Colomiba         11/01/76    202.0 Delay due to expected better returns
16 PESTOLU                      09/01/80    102.6 Offering in process
17 Fondo Nacional de Garantias    03/01/82    6,135.6 Not sold due to involvement with micro-enterprises
18 CATSA                        12/01/78    248.1 Firm liquidated in September 1996
19 CORFIPOPULAR                 12/01/74    996.9  09/30/93    3,294.7
20 FEDERALTEX                   08/01/89     859.3 In process of liquidation
21 Maritimas del Caribe         03/01/89     112.5 In process of liquidation
22 Metales Preciosos del Choco  04/01/86       1.6 Investment written off in June 1994
23 PROCULTURA                   06/01/81       5.0 Firm liquidated in December 1996
24 Venezolana de Nitrogeno      09/01/73    213.6  12/01/97  21,243.9
Special Companies
1 Cero Matoso                  03/12179  53,765.5  02/18/97  178,492.1
2 Monomeros                    12/26/67  42,000.0 Looking at options prescribed by AD Little
3 Alcalis de Colombia Ltda.    08/01/70    2,867.1 In process of liquidation
4 Corporacion Adina de Fomentc   07/01/70    1,471.1  06/01/95   21,777.1
5 Productora de Papeles        08/01/90  29,935.4 Firm being restructured, sale on hold.



29
Table 9C IFI: Balance Sheet
(millions of pesos)                         1992       1993      1994         1995        1996        1997
Cash & Due from                           2,159.1    2,275.7   19,012.1    19,690.5     9,710.4     18,815.9
Interbank Placements                       658.6   13,005.0    7,254.6      5,316.5     6,095.1    23,202.4
Investments:
Fixed income                             6,221.1   29,256.5   26,810.1    34,397.6    83,014.9    104,298.1
Stocks                                  35,330.5   39,364.8   43,027.2    63,744.7    80,384.6    137,050.3
Market valuation adjustment of stocks   37,083.0   20,863.9   41,827.4    63,629.2    66,524.3    92,870.1
Inflation adjustment                     7,657.2   16,687.6   28,554.0    12,118.6    28,438.3    51,071.3
Reserves for losses                     -6,623.0   -6,098.1    -7,427.8    -12,823.3    -22,476.0   -35,251.1
Total Investments                      79,668.8  100,074.7   132,790.9    161,066.8   235,886.1    350,038.7
Loans:
Current                                178,022.0  324,285.6  448,892.6    763,859.5    980,600.6  1,306,170.9
Past Due                                 5,513.0    8,246.1   16,202.7    37,709.3    60,331.1     80,554.7
Reserves for loan losses                -5,828.0  -11,249.0   -8,676.1    -23,171.9    -24,937.5    -36,573.3
Net Loans                             177,707.0  321,282.7  456,419.2    778,396.9  1,015,994.2  1,350,152.3
Fixed Assets:
Fixed assets                             1,427.0    1,459.4    1,843.2     2,302.8    28,159.9    28,571.3
Inflation adjustment                      279.0      665.8    1,137.2      1,691.5     17,588.2    25,525.9
Valuation adjustment of fixed assets      803.0      802.4    2,473.2     31,712.6     20,137.8    18,860.1
Cumulative depreciation                   -683.0   -1,242.2   -1,908.5     -2,675.0    -3,788.0    -5,005.8
Total fixed assets                      1,826.0    1,685.4    3,545.1    33,031.9    62,097.9    67,951.5
Other Assets                             41,302.8   62,719.8   140,159.9    177,626.1    200,037.5    228,508.4
TOTAL ASSETS                            303,322.3  501,043.3  759,181.8  1,175,128.7  1,529,821.2  2,038,669.2
Deposits:
Certificates of deposits                12,544.0   21,106.4   110,128.6    121,762.4    138,819.7    506,554.9
Other deposits                           1,487.0    1,451.7     218.3        685.8       276.5       253.0
Total deposits                         14,031.0   22,558.1   110,346.9    122,448.2    139,096.2    506,807.9
Purchase of Interbank Funds               2,786.0     402.0      100.0     11,500.0    13,000.0    36,900.0
Borrowed Funds:
Banco de la Republica                   11,156.0   19,036.4   44,006.5    21,739.4    18,988.3     10,005.3
Other domestic financial institutions   27,371.0   23,426.9   58,022.1    97,865.0    64,703.9    85,903.1
Extemal financial institutions          49,600.8  114,550.6  145,029.1    334,397.9    379,217.7    474,776.9
Total borrowed funds                   88,127.8  157,013.9  247,057.7    454,002.3   462,909.9    570,685.3
Bonds                                    23,122.0   74,015.9   112,674.0    184,899.6   465,320.4    394,187.0
Other Liabilities                        22,873.0   42,560.4   42,396.0    75,976.1    84,045.9    81,430.0
Total Liabilities                       150,939.8  296,550.3  512,574.6    848,826.2  1,164,372.4  1,590,010.2
Net Worth
Common stock & reserves                 62,909.0   98,620.1   119,904.5    181,722.4   226,957.7    277,386.5
Valuation adjustments                   37,885.0   21,666.3   44,300.6    95,341.8    86,662.1    111,730.2
Inflation adjustment of common stock    17,216.0   40,017.8   57,521.2    37,544.3    50,674.4    48,095.8
Other                                   17j261.0   16,923.0   15,386.4        0.0          0.0         0.0
Retained eamings                         6,714.0   17,111.2       0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Net income previous period              10,398.0   10,154.6    9,494.5    11,694.0     1,154.6     11,446.6
Total Net Worth                       152,383.0  204,493.0  246,607.2    326,302.5    365,448.8   448,659.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET WORTH           303,322,8  501,043.3  759,181.8  1,175,128.7  1,529,821.2  2,038,669.3



30
Table 9D IFI: Income Statement
(millions of pesos)                  1992      1993      1994      1995       1996       1997
Interest Income                   32,145.3  55,297.1  87,747.2  152,026.9  220,147.4  247,746.4
Interest Expense                   9,797.7  25,184.6  53,555.7  120,684.1  169,237.1  196,796.1
Netinterestincome                22,347.6  30,112.5  34,191.5   31,342.8   50,910.3   50,950.3
Less: loan loss provisions        2,232.1   6,619.5   1,546.3   15,689.1   11,756.8   23,252.2
Net interest after provisions    20,115.5  23,493.0  32,645.2   15,653.7   39,153.5   27,698.1
Investment Income
Dividends and participations      3,916.4  13,509.2   4,363.0   22,081.6    1,284.1    6,198.9
Netgainsfromsaleofstocks          2,538.0   2,151.7   1,691.2  123,629.5    -451.4   22,006.3
Net valuation adjustment to stocks    0.0      0.0       0.0    7,565.6    9,753.1    7,039.4
Less: provisions for investments     68.7   1,079.9    644.5    4,947.6    8,569.9   12,249.1
Total investment income          6,385.7  14,581.0   5,409.7  148,329.1    2,015.9   22,995.5
Non-interest Income
Fees and commissions              1,168.3    747.0    638.4       958.4     909.3    1,693.8
Net Foreign exchange              6,672.0   3,678.7   2,379.5   18,026.7    2,402.1   -4,186.3
Other, net                            0.0      0.9    230.5       113.6      122.8      12.6
Total non-interest income        7,840.3   4,426.6   3,248.4   19,098.7    3,434.2   -2,479.9
Non-interest expense
Personnel                         5,383.3   8,425.6  10,138.1    9,701.5   13,751.9   18,098.4
Other                             1,798.2   8,887.6   4,118.5    9,030.7    9,554.6   17,941.7
Total non-interest expense       7,181.5  17,313.2  14,256.6   18,732.2   23,306.5   36,040.1
Other Income and Expenses
Net inflation adjustment of P/L   1,951.8   2,349.9   2,595.3     935.0    3,637.3    3,420.2
Other income                      4,506.7   3,624.7   8,851.1    9,964.7   26,238.0   37,776.8
Other expenses                    8,857.7   3,482.5   2,351.5  142,116.5   14,154.9   13,597.7
Net other income and expenses    -2,399.2   2,492.1   9,094.9  -131,216.8   15,720.4   27,599.3
Inflation adjustment to balance sheet    -12,111.5  -15,117.4  -24,196.8  -18,535.8  -30,549.0  -21,152.5
Net Income before Taxes           12,649.3  12,562.1  11,944.8   14,596.7    6,468.5   18,620.4
Income Taxes                       2,251.5   2,407.5   2,450.3    2,902.7    5,314.0    7,173.7
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES            10,397.8  10,154.6   9,494.5   11,694.0    1,154.5   11,446.7



31
Table 9E IFI: Selected Indicators
(percent)                                        1993      1994       1995        1996       1997
Return on Assets                                  2.52      1.51       1.21       0.09       0.64
Retum on Equity                                   5.69      4.21       4.08       0.33       2.81
Interest Income I Assets                         13.75     13.93      15.72      16.28      13.89
Interest Expense /Assets                          6.26      8.50      12.48      12.51      11.03
Net Interest                                      7.49      5.43       3.24       3.76       2.86
Non-interest expense I Adjusted income            40.7      34.5       10.2       52.3       74.8
Non-interest expense I Assets                     4.30      2.26       1.94       1.72       2.02
Personnel /Adjusted income                        19.8      24.5        5.3       30.8       37.5
Reserve to Investments                            10.9      10.4       16.9       20.7       18.7
Provision to Investments                           1.9       0.9        6.5        7.9        6.5
Reserve to Loans                                   3.4       1.9        2.9        2.4        2.6
Provision to Loans                                 2.0       0.3        2.0        1.1        1.7
Reserves ! Overdue Loan payments                 136.4      53.5       61.4       41.3       45.4
Overdue Loan payments / Total loans                2.5       3.5        4.7        5.8        5.8
Cash & Funds Sold I Assets                         3.0       3.5        2.1        1.0        2.1
Loans ! Liabilities                              112.1      90.7       94.4       89.4       87.2
Net Worth I Assets                                40.8      32.5       27.8       23.9       22.0
Adjusted Income is net interest and investment income plus other income.



32
Table 9F IFI: Structure of Balance Sheet
(percent)                             1992      1993      1994       1995       1996      1997
Cash & Due from                        0.7       0.5       2.5        1.7        0.6        0.9
Interbank Placements                   0.2       2.6       1.0        0.5        0.4        1.1
Investments:
Fixed income                          2.1       5.8       3.5        2.9        5.4        5.1
Stocks                                11.6      7.9       5.7        5.4        5.3        6.7
Market valuation adjustment of stockh  12.2     4.2       5.5        5.4        4.3        4.6
Inflation adjustment                  2.5       3.3       3.8        1.0        1.9        2.5
Reserves for losses                  -2.2      -1.2      -1.0       -1.1       -1.5       -1.7
Total Investments                   26.3      20.0      17.5       13.7       15.4       17.2
Loans:
Current                              58.7      64,7      59.1       65.0       64.1       64.1
Past Due                               1.8      1.6       2.1        3.2        3.9        4.0
Reserves for loan losses              -1.9     -2.2      -1.1       -2.0       -1.6       -1.8
Net Loans                           58.6      64.1      60.1       66.2       66.4       66.2
Fixed Assets:
Fixed assets                          0.5       0.3       0.2        0.2        1.8        1.4
Inflation adjustment                  0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1        1.1        1.3
Valuation adjustment of fixed assets  0.3       0.2       0.3        2.7        1.3        0.9
Cumulative depreciation              -0.2      -0.2      -0.3       -0.2       -0.2       -0.2
Total fixed assets                    0.6      0.3       0.5        2.8        4.1        3.3
Other Assets                           13.6     12.5      18.5       15.1       13.1       11.2
TOTAL ASSETS                          100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
Deposits:
Certificates of deposits              4.1       4.2      14.5       10.4        9.1       24.8
Other deposits                        0.5       0.3       0.0        0.1        0.0        0.0
Total deposits                       4.6       4.5      14.5       10.4        9.1       24.9
Purchase of Interbank Funds            0.9       0.1       0.0        1.0        0.8        1.8
Borrowed Funds:
Banco de la Republica                 3.7       3.8       5.8        1.8        1.2        0.5
Other domestic financial institutions  9.0      4.7       7.6        8.3        4.2        4.2
External financial institutions      16.4      22.9      19.1       28.5       24.8       23.3
Total borrowed funds                29.1      31.3      32.5       38.6       30.3       28.0
Bonds                                  7.6      14.8      14.8       15.7       30.4       19.3
Other Liabilities                      7.5       8.5       5.6        6.5        5.5        4.0
Total Liabilities                     49.8      59.2      67.5       72.2       76.1       78.0
Net Worth
Common stock & reserves              20.7      19.7      15.8       15.5       14.8       13.6
Valuation adjustments                 12.5      4.3       5.8        8.1        5.7        5.5
Inflation adjustment of common stock  5.7       8.0       7.6        3.2        3.3        2.4
Other                                 5.7       3.4       2.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Retained earnings                     2.2       3.4       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Net income previous period            3.4       2.0       1.3        1.0        0.1        0.6
Total Net Worth                      50.2     40.8      32.5       27.8       23.9       22.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET WORTH         100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0



33
Table 9G IFI: Balance Sheet
(US$ OOOs)                            1992      1993      1994      1995       1996       1997
Cash & Due from                      2,660     2,481    22,871     19,937      9,659     14,546
Interbank Placements                   811    14,177     8,727      5,383      6,063     17,937
Investments:
Fixed incqme                        7,664    31,893    32,252     34,828     82,575     80,627
Stocks                             43,523    42,912    51,761     64,542     79,958    105,947
Market valuation adjustment of stock!  45,682    22,744    50,317  64,425    66,172     71,793
Inflation adjustment                9,433    18,191    34,350     12,270     28,288     39,481
Reserves for losses                -8,159    -6,648    -8,935    -12,984    -22,357    -27,251
Total Investments                  98,142   109,093   159,745    163,081    234,635    270,597
Loans:
Current                           219,301   353,510   540,008    773,411    975,402  1,009,733
Past Due                            6,791     8,989    19,492     38,181     60,011     62,273
Reserves for loan losses           -7,179   -12,263   -10,437    -23,462    -24,805    -28,273
NetLoans                         218,913   350,237   549,063    788,130   1,010,608  1,043,733
Fixed Assets:
Fixed assets                         1,758    1,591     2,217      2,332     28,011     22,087
Inflation adjustment                  344       726     1,368      1,713     17,495     19,733
Valuation adjustment of fixed assets  989       875     2,975     32,109     20,031     14,580
Cumulative depreciation              -841    -1,354    -2,296     -2,708     -3,768     -3,870
Total fixed assets                  2,249     1,837    4,265     33,445     61,769     52,530
Other Assets                        50,880    68,372   168,609    179,847    198,977    176,648
TOTAL ASSETS                        373,655   546,197   913,279  1,189,823   1,521,710   1,575,990
Deposits:
Certificates of deposits            15,453    23,009   132,482    123,285    138,084    391,591
Other deposits                       1,832    1,583       263       694        275        196
Total deposits                     17,284    24,591   132,745    123,979    138,359    391,787
Purchase of Interbank Funds           3,432      438       120     11,644     12,931     28,525
Borrowed Funds:
Banco de la Republica               13,743    20,752    52,939    22,011     18,888      7,735
Other domestic financial institutions  33,718    25,538    69,799  99,089    64,361     66,407
Extemal financial institutions     61,102   124,874   174,467    338,579    377,207    367,026
Total borrowed funds              108,563   171,164   297,205    459,679    460,456    441,167
Bonds                               28,483    80,686   135,544    187,212    462,853    304,726
Other Liabilities                   28,177    46,396    51,001     76,926     83,600     62,949
Total Liabilities                   185,939   323,275   616,616    859,440  1,158,199  1,229,155
Net Worth
Common stock & reserves            77,496   107,508   144,243    183,995    225,754    214,433
Valuation adjustments              46,670    23,619    53,293     96,534     86,203     86,373
Inflation adjustmentof common stock  21,208    43,624    69,197   38,014     50,406     37,180
Other                              21,263    18,448    18,510          0         0          0
Retained eamings                    8,271    18,653         0          0         0          0
Net income previous period         12,809    11,070    11,422     11,840      1,148      8,849
Total Net Worth                   187,717   222,922   296,663    330,383    363,511    346,835
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET WORTH       373,656   546,197   913,279   1,189,823   1,521,710  1,575,990



34
Table 9H IFI: Income Statement
(US$ OOOs)                            1992      1993     1994       1995       1996       1997
Interest Income                     42,337    64,071   103,863    166,545    212,356    217,139
Interest Expense                    12,904    29,181    63,392    132,209    163,248    172,483
Net interest income                29,433    34,890    40,471    34,336     49,109     44,656
Less: loan loss provisions          2,940     7,670     1,830     17,187    11,341     20,380
Net interest after provisions      26,493    27,221    38,641     17,149    37,768     24,276
Investment Income
Dividends and participations        5,158    15,653     5,164    24,190      1,239      5,433
Net gains from sale of stocks       3,343     2,493     2,002    135,435      -435     19,2138
Net valuation adjustment to stocks      0        0         0       8,288     9,408      6,170
Less: provisions for investments       90     1,251      763       5,420     8,267     10,736
Total investment income            8,410    16,895     6,403    162,494      1,945    20,155
Non-interest Income
Fees and commissions                1,539       866      756       1,050       877      1,485
Net Foreign exchange                8,787     4,262     2,817     19,748     2,317     -3,669
Other, net                              0         1      273        124        118         11
Total non-interest income         10,326     5,129     3,845     20,923     3,313      -2,174
Non-interest expense
Personnel                           7,090     9,762    12,000     10,628    13,265     15,862
Other                               2,368    10,298     4,875      9,893     9,216     15,725
Total non-interest expense         9,458    20,060    16,875     20,521    22,482     31,588
Other Income and Expenses
Net inflation adjustment of PIL     2,571     2,723     3,072      1,024     3,509      2,998
Other income                        5,935     4,200    10,477     10,916    25,309     33,110
Other expenses                     11,666     4,035     2,783    155,688    13,654     11,918
Netother income and expenses       -3,160    2,888    10,765   -143,747     15,164    24,191)
Inflation adjustment to balance sheet  -15,951   -17,516   -28,641    -20,306    -29,468    -18,53'3
Net Income before Taxes             16,660    14,555    14,139     15,991     6,240     16,320
Income Taxes                         2,965     2,789     2,900     3,180      5,126      6,287J
NETINCOMEAFTERTAXES                 13,694    11,766    11,238     12,811      1,114    10,033



Table 91 IFI: Disbursements                   3 5
(millions of pesos)          1994*      1995      1996     1997
First Tier Lending
Large Enterprises
Domestic currency         39,674.0  147,230.9  105,640.5 156,051.6
Foreign currency          87,379.3 222,909.1  176,307.7 106,841.5
Total First Tier Lending  127,053.3 370,140.0 281,948.2 262,893.1
Second Tier Lending
FINURBANO                   2,652.0  38,956.0  40,131.0  46,421.8
PROPYME
Domestic currency         33,813.0  124,939.0 127,533.0  143,983.5
Foreign currency              0.0   1,654.0  21,528.0   7,852.7
Sub-total                33,813.0  126,593.0  149,061.0 151,836.2
Large Enterprises
Domestic currency             0.0    680.0  19,179.0 154,369.4
Foreign currency              0.0       0.0  67,887.0  50,186.7
Sub-total                    0.0    680.0  87,066.0 204,556.1
Total Second Tier Lending    36,465.0  166,229.0 276,258.0 402,814.1
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT  163,518.3 536,369.0 558,206.2 665,707.2
(Percent Structure)
First Tier Lending
Large Enterprises
Domestic currency            24.3      27.4      18.9      23.4
Foreign currency             53.4      41.6      31.6      16.0
Total First Tier Lending    77.7      69.0      50.5      39.5
Second Tier Lending
FINURBANO                      1.6       7.3       7.2       7.0
PROPYME
Domestic currency            20.7      23.3      22.8      21.6
Foreign currency              0.0       0.3       3.9       1.2
Sub-total                   20.7      23.6      26.7      22.8
Large Enterprises
Domestic currency             0.0       0.1       3.4      23.2
Foreign currency              0.0       0.0      12.2       7.5
Sub-total                    0.0       0.1      15.6      30.7
Total Second Tier Lending    22.3      31.0      49.5      60.5
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
* Data for 1994 refer to the period August - December.
NOTE: FINURBANO lending is all in domestic currency.



36
Table 9J IFI: Loan Portfolio Classification
(millions of pesos)    1992  1993    1994     1995      1996       1997
Commercial
A             151,348.1 268,223.5 380,570.7 655,337.2  859,249.9 1,131,255.2
B              17,166.7  16,441.4  51,420.0  68,775.5  88,006.4  165,813.7
C              10,493.9  31,416.9    728.4  6,826.6  21,723.2   28,075.9
D                386.8  6,556.9  20,993.2  54,119.5   38,338.6  27,066.2
E              2,933.6  2,204.0  6,917.7  12,513.6  29,887.0   31,408.5
Sub-total    182,329.1 324,842.7 460,630.0 797,572.4 1,037,205.1 1,383,619.5
Consumer
A               1,106.4   7,510.5   1,869.7    882.3   722.2    1,064.0
B                 34.7     56.9  2,304.5  2,464.1    1,980.5    1,087.3
C                 11.1     22.8      4.7      30.5     193.4      26.1
D                 23.0     37.4    156.7    337.3       67.3     104.5
E                 30.8     61.4    129.7    232.2      763.2     824.3
Sub-total      1,206.0   7,689.0  4,465.3  3,946.4   3,726.6    3,106.2
TOTAL          183,535.1 332,531.7 465,095.3 801,518.8 1,040,931.7 1,386,725.7
Percent structure:
Commercial
A                 83.0     82.6     82.6      82.2      82.8      81.8
B                  9.4      5.1     11.2      8.6        8.5      12.0
C                  5.8      9.7      0.2       0.9       2.1       2.0
D                  0.2      2.0      4.6      6.8        3.7       2.0
E                  1.6      0.7      1.5       1.6       2.9       2.3
Sub-total       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0      100.0     100.0
Consumer
A                 91.7     97.7     41.9      22.4      19.4      34.3
B                  2.9      0.7     51.6      62.4      53.1      35.0
C                  0.9      0.3      0.1      0.8        5.2       0.8
D                  1.9      0.5      3.5      8.5        1.8       3.4
E                  2.6      0.8      2.9      5.9       20.5      26.5
Sub-total       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0      100.0     100.0



Table 9K IFI: Equity Investments in Number of Shares
1992       1993        1994        1995        1996          1997
Number of Shares
1 Aceria Paz del Rio                                                                   1,068,600,000  1,398,600,000
2 Agroquimica Colombiana de caldas                                 202,643     202,643      202,643       550,792
3 Agrozulia                                2,939,701   2,939,701   2,939,701   2,939,701    2,939,701   2,939,701
4 Alcalis de Colombia                      2,867,211   2,867,211   2,867,211   2,867,211    2,867,211   2,867,211
5 Artesanias de Colombia                   1,830,980   1,830,980   1,830,980   1,830,980   10,462,907    10,462,907
6 Banco de Comercio Exterior                                                  8,834,645    8,834,645    8,834,645
7 Cales y derivados de la Sierra                                                                      562,853,708
8 Carbones de Colombia                     2,039,465    201,996    201,996     201,996      201,996       201,996
9 Carbones del Valle y del Cauca           1,022,044   1,022,044   1,022,044
10 Centro de Ferias y Exposiciones Bucaramanga                       42,800      51,578       74,284        74,284
11 Cerromatoso                              5,512,803   5,512,803   5,512,803
12 Citricos de Colombia                                               9,910       9,910        9,910         9,910
13 Colombiana de Minas                        22,499      22,499
14 Comercializadora intemacional frigopesca  4,874,433   5,708,109
15 Complejo Agroindustral del Tolima        4,982,015   4,982,015   4,982,015   4,982,015
16 Complejo Metalurgico Colombiano            40,000
17 Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo SA  15,183,107
18 Cosechar                                                          11,954
19 Deposito Centralizado de Valores de Colombia                                      43          43            43
20 El Gavilan                                                      1,019,142   1,174,383    1,243,383    1,563,383
21 Empresa Col de Prod. y Dist. de Bienes Cultural.  5,000  5,000      5,000      5,000
22 Empresa Colombiana Pesquera Tolu         1,026,202   1,026,202   1,026,202   1,026,202    1,026,202
23 Empresa Desarrollo de Sugamuxi           1,700,000   1,700,000   1,700,000   1,700,000    1,700,000   1,700,000
24 Fabrica de Textiles del Tolima            208,001
25 Federacion de Textileros                  699,976     762,446    762,446     762,446      762,446       762,446
26 Ferrominera                              2,197,199   2,197,199
27 Financiera America                                                                                13,433,507,062
28 Financiera Leasing Colvalores                                                                         2,544,790
29 Finansol SA Compania de Financiamiento                                               3,444,387,030
30 Fondo de Desarrollo Santander          100,272,727 100,272,727 100,272,727 100,272,727  100,272,727   100,272,727



Table 9K IFI: Equity Investments in Number of Shares
1992       1993        1994        1995        1996          1997
Number of Shares
31 Fondo Nacional de Garantias                15,487                            577,639      577,639     1,019,369
32 Frutas del tropico                                     45,000     45,000   1,024,346    1,209,647     2,009,647
33 Generar S.A. E.S.P,                                                                                   3,145,747
34 Industria de Telecomunicaciones             7,853       7,853       7,853
35 Instituto de Capacitacion Empresarial                                                                     5,000
36 Inversiones Agroindustriales del Gran caldas  684,615  684,615
37 Leasing de Desarrollo Industrial IFlleasing                                 3,106,890    3,519,258    4,303,698
38 Maritimas del Caribe                      112,500     112,500     112,500    112,500      112,500       112,500
39 Metales preciosos del Choco                 1,560       1,560
40 Metalugica Construcel Colombia                                                                          405,000
41 Minerales de Colombia                         270        270         270         270         270           270
42 Monomeros colombo Venezolanos             272,153 538,233,421  538,233,421                 20,000   538,253,421
43 Operadora de la Zona Franca Pozos Colorados            10,050      10,050     10,050       10,050        10,050
44 Productora de Papeles                                                      30,844,910   30,844,910    20,844,910
45 Promotora de empresas agroexportadoras                                        40,500       40,500        40,500
46 Promotora de inversiones del Tolima        36,000      36,000      36,000     36,000       36,000        36,000
47 Promotora de Inversiones del Valle del Cauca  63,800   63,800
48 Promotora Papelera                         69,172      69,172
49 Promotora de Proyectos                     62,200     138,662     138,662    252,816      252,816       252,816
50 Promotora de Proyectos De Inv. del Atlantico  420,000  420,000   420,000     420,000      420,000       420,000
51 Promotora Industrial Cokosilk                       1,159,420   1,269,546   1,269,546    1,269,546
52 Pryectos de lnfraestructura                            15,000   1,983,900   1,983,900    1,983,900    3,474,914
53 Quibi                                   12,847,611  12,847,611  12,847,611  12,847,611
54 Sedas del Cauca                                        53,954     53,954
55 Setas de Colombia                       15,000,000  15,000,000  18,324,320  23,914,227   23,914,227    29,913,825
56 Sociedad Colombiana de Transporte Ferrovario                                            2,307,694
57 Sociedad Fiduciaria Industrial Fiduifi                                        10,759       17,034        26,005
58 Sociedad Transporte Multimodal del Rio Gde                         15,000     15,000       15,000        15,000
59 Venezolana de Nitrogeno                    30,000      30,000     30,000      30,000       30,000



APPENDIX A
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



WJN STRIO DE DISEROLLO ECONOMICO
,FNSTITUTO
fDE FOMENTO
=   INDUSTRIAL
DE54RROO EMPRESAWAL PAR0 TOS 
Introducci6n
Durante los anios 1991 y 1992 la Naci6n de Colombia y el IFI adelantaron los tramites necesarios
para contratar un credito con el Banco Mundial por US$100 millones. (Cien millones de d6lares).
El contrato de credito fue firmado el 21 de junio de 1993, bajo el numero 3449-CO y denominado
IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project (Proyecto de reestructuraci6n y desinversiones del IFI).
Este credito fue avalado por la Naci6n, segun Resoluci6n del Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito
Piblico No. 71 del 3 de junio de 1993.
Las siguientes fueron las condiciones de credito:
Prestatario:               Instituto de Fomento Industrial con el aval de la Republica
de Colombia
Monto:                     US$100 millones
Plazo maximo               17 anfos con 5 afnos de gracia.
Comisi6n de compromiso:    3/4 del 1% anual sobre el monto principal del prestamo no
desembolsado.
Divisa:                    Canasta de Monedas (US$, Marcos y Yenes)
Adicionalmente, se establecieron unas condiciones generales que debian ser cumplidas por el
Instituto, con el fin de proceder a efectuar los desembolsos correspondientes del credito.
El desarrollo del credito estuvo enmarcado por la realizaci6n de dos tramos, con el prop6sito de
lograr los objetivos planteados. De esta forma se estableci6 el Tramo A, orientado a satisfacer las
necesidades de credito del sector productivo y el Tramo B, orientado a la reestructuraci6n interna
del IFI.
Durante el Tramo A del credito se efectu6 la financiaci6n de 18 proyectos de desarrollo especificos
a traves de sub-prestamos a empresas privadas de producci6n para financiar el componente
importado de inversiones en maquinaria y equipo, repuestos, construcci6n y/o rehabilitaci6n de
instalaciones industriales (excluyendo tierras) y capital de trabajo relacionado. El total
comprometido en este tramo ascendi6 a US$ 47 millones.
En cuanto a las actividades adelantadas durante el Tramo B, se habia previsto como condici6n de
desembolso una revisi6n del adelanto en los compromisos y condicionalidades establecidas para el
segundo desembolso. Es asi como el componente de desinversi6n, que hacia parte de las
condicionalidades, fue muy dinamico durante 1991 y 1992.
Sin embargo, para los siguientes afios las metas establecidas no fueron alcanzadas, ya que este
comportamiento se debi6 a que dichas condiciones, que se comprometi6 a cumplir el IFI durante los
afios 1990 a 1993, fueron establecidas bajo esquemas y parametros que cambiaron de manera
Implementation Completetion Report Credito 3449-CO



MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
w
INSTITUTO
DE FOMENTO
UINDSTRIAL
DESARROLLO EMPRESARIAL PARA TODOS         2
fundamental en los afios posteriores. El Gobierno de esa epoca reflej6 la orientaci6n general que se
le queria dar en el mediano plazo al IFI, definiendo un plan de acci6n para la reestructuraci6n
financiera, administrativa y operacional y la implementaci6n de una estrategia de largo plazo, segun
la cual el gobierno decidiria sobre la estructura y propiedad del IFI.
Sin embargo en 1994, al presentarse el cambio de gobierno, las politicas gubernamentales
consideraron al IFI como instrumento esencial para el desarrollo y ejecuci6n de las mismas, ya que
seria un aliado estrategico en el programa de generaci6n de empleo. Por tal motivo, se decidi6 que
el Instituto tuviera un proceso de transformaci6n que se caracterizara por la reorientaci6n de las
politicas crediticias y de inversi6n con el fin de adaptarlas a los compromisos asumidos por el
Modelo Alternativo de Desarrollo Social.
Con el fin de poder acceder al Tramo B del credito se procedi6 a la evaluaci6n de cumplimiento de
los compromisos adquiridos en el Tramo A y a la revisi6n de las condicionalidades a partir de 1996.
Es asi como se trabajo conjuntamente con el Banco el documento sobre la Politica del Instituto de
Fomento Industrial, el cual reflejaria las nuevas condicionalidades establecidas para el TRAMO B.
Finalmente, La Junta Directiva en su deliberaci6n sobre el particular el 27 de noviembre de 1997,
mantuvo la posici6n de conservar una composici6n de 40% credito directo y 60% cr6dito de
redescuento, de tal forma que conlleve al cumplimiento de los objetivos de democratizacion y
descentralizaci6n del credito y al mismo tiempo, le permitan al IFI operar con eficiencia y
rentabilidad financiera, por lo que se decidi6 no acceder al segundo tramo de la linea de credito, al
no poder cumplir las condicionalidades establecidas..
1.    EVALUACION DE LOS OBJETIVOS
Objetivos del proyecto.
Los recursos de credito estaban orientados a desarrollar un proyecto cuyos objetivos eran los
siguientes:
* Proveer financiaci6n a los mecanismos y recursos productivos en Colombia que contribuirian al
desarrollo economico y social del pais.
* Ejecutar un programa de venta y privatizaci6n de las tenencias de capital existentes del
Prestatario, incluyendo el desarrollo y ejecucion de planes individuales de reestructuraci6n y
venta
* Sustentar la ejecuci6n de la nueva estrategia empresarial para el prestatario, la cual reorientaria
su papel en el desarrollo del sector industrial y financiero transformandolo en una instituci6n
financiera mas eficiente que pudiera competir en  iguales condiciones en los mercados
financieros y, en el proceso, aumentando la competencia en dichos mercados y Ilenando los
Implementation Completetion Report Cr6dito 3449-CO



MNISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
I   _  INSTITUTO
'ffDEFOMENTO
INDUSTRIAL
DESARROLLO EMPRESARIAL PAPA TOWS          3
vacios en los servicios financieros necesarios para sustentar inversiones compatibles con la
liberalizaci6n de la economia.
Se consider6 que el proyecto se dividiera en dos tramos y para lograrlo se plantearon los siguientes
tramos:
TRAMO A: Orientado a satisfacer necesidades de credito del sector productivo a traves de la
financiaci6n de proyectos de desarrollo especificos a traves de sub-prestamos a empresas privadas
de producci6n para financiar el componente importado de inversiones en maquinaria y equipo,
repuestos, construcci6n y/o rehabilitaci6n de instalaciones industriales (excluyendo tierras) y capital
de trabajo relacionado.
Este tramo se llev6 a cabo entre junio de 1993 y octubre de 1995, para un total de desembolsos de
US$ 47 millones a traves de 18 sub-pr6stamos. La implementaci6n de este componente se dio con
bastante agilidad y sin mayores contratiempos.
Los 18 sub-prestamos desembolsados se concentran principalmente en los sectores manufacturero y
de turismo de la siguiente forma: 5 empresas pertenecientes a hoteles y restaurantes, 4 empresas
pertenecientes al sector de fabricaci6n de quimicos y cauchos, 3 empresas a la fabricaci6n de
productos textiles, 2 empresas pertenecientes a la elaboraci6n de productos alimenticios, 1 a la
fabricaci6n de productos minerales, 1 a la fabricaci6n de papel y sus productos y 1 a la prestaci6n
de servicios. Dichos creditos se destinaron a la reestructuraci6n y expansi6n de empresas existentes,
especificamente para inversi6n en activos fijos (ver Anexo No. 1).
El tamafno de las empresas financiadas, al igual que el de los prestamos otorgados varia
considerablemente. El rango de tamanio de empresa (medido por total de activos en libros) va de
US$ 1,3 millones a US$ 200 millones. Los prestamos financiados bajo la linea abarcan desde
US$209.000 a US$ 10 millones (el maximo permitido).
TRAMO B : Orientado a la reestructuraci6n interna del IFI. Su desarrollo establecia el desarrollo
de un plan estrategico de opciones viables para Concesi6n Salinas, el cual determinara bajo que
condiciones puede ser factible la combinaci6n de reestructuraci6n y privatizaci6n parcial de la
empresa; la preparaci6n de un analisis estrategico de la inversi6n en CERROMATOSO, incluyendo
una revisi6n de las estructuras alternas de propiedad para la compaiiia y el tiempo apropiado para
estas alternativas; la preparaci6n de un analisis estrategico de las tenencias del Prestatario en
MON6MEROS COLOMBO-VENEZOLANOS y un analisis de estructuras alternas de propiedad;
el desarrollo de una estrategia para la privatizaci6n del Prestatario; la ejecuci6n de nuevas politicas,
procedimientos y controles para la operaci6n del Prestatario, incluyendo la ejecuci6n de un sistemas
de control de calidad organizacional para todos los aspectos de la gerencia del Prestatario y la
adquisici6n de equipo necesario para Ilevar a cabo el disefno y la ejecuci6n de los sistemas de
informaci6n y contrataci6n de servicios de consultores para todos las anteriores actividades,
incluyendo la ejecuci6n de estudios para las mismas.
Implementation Completetion Report Credito 3449-CO



MNISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
INSnTUTO
DE FOMENTO
INDUSTRMAL
DESARROUO EMPRESARIAL PAM TODOS         4
Con el prop6sito de desarrollo un plan estrategico de opciones viables para Concesi6n Salinas, se
adelantaron varias acciones tendientes a la creaci6n de SAMA (Salinas de Manaure) Sociedad
Mixta, con participaci6n de los indigenas Wayuu, para la explotaci6n de las salinas de Manaure,
utilizando la infraestructura de la Concesi6n de Salinas. En cuanto a la participaci6n de capital
privado de la sociedad SAMA, se cuenta con la aprobaci6n de las sociedades privadas "Navesco
S.A.", "Sales de la Guajira", y "Recursos de la Guajira".
Con respecto al proceso de venta de Cerromatoso, para cancelar obligaciones con la Naci6n en
junio de 1995 el Instituto le transfiri6 y esta recibi6 el dominio sobre los derechos fiduciarios que
constituy6 el Instituto sobre la participaci6n accionaria que este tenia en Cerromatoso S.A.
(47,70%) y Mon6meros Colombo Venezolanos (33,44%). Igualmente, las acciones que el IFI
poseia en la Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento - CAF, por valor de $21.77,1 millones.
El objeto de la Fiducia era la administraci6n y tenencia de los activos y la venta a terceros de los
mismos, para con su producto cancelar la deuda vigente. Adicionalmente, en el contrato de Fiducia
se convino que los recursos obtenidos con la venta de los activos que excediera el monto de las
obligaciones serian retornados al Instituto.
Es asi como la fiducia en el anio 1996, vendi6 128.111 acciones de Cerromatoso que equivalen al
1,1% del capital. Dicha venta se realiz6 a un precio de $32.610,0 por acci6n arrojando una utilidad
de $556,8 millones. Por tal motivo, el Instituto en 1996 registr6 esta suma como disminuci6n de la
deuda del deficit de bonos de valor constante y un menor valor de la provisi6n.
De otro lado, el dia 18 de febrero de 1997, se efectu6 la venta de las 5.384.692 acciones restantes
por valor de $178.492,1 millones a raz6n de $33.148,07 por acci6n generando una utilidad de
$19.186,0 millones y las acciones de Mon6meros Colombo-Venezolanos fueron transferidas
nuevamente por la Fiducia al IFI, quedando por liquidar el contrato de fiducia.
Finalmente, pendiente de liquidaci6n se encuentran las comisiones pagaderas a la Banca de
Inversi6n y los gastos inherentes a la venta de las acciones de Cerromatoso. La deuda por Bonos de
Valor Constante a la Naci6n qued6 debidamente cancelada en febrero 20 de 1997.
A partir de 1993 el prestatario recurrira a los mercados financieros como unica fuente de
financiaci6n domestica de sus operaciones, con la excepci6n de las fuentes de fondos actualmente
existentes destinados para fines especificos, hasta que los mismos sean paulatinamente eliminados.
El IFI ha incursionado en el mercado internacional de capitales, es asi como en 1995 se inici6 la
emisi6n de un credito sindicado por US$50 millones. Esta operaci6n culmin6 exitosamente en
Septiembre, con una colocaci6n final de US$75 millones, con participaci6n de las siguientes
entidades: Santander Investment Bank Limited, como Arranger y Agente, el Dresdner Bank
Luxembourg S.A., como Co-Agente, al igual que Fuji Bank, Uni6n de Bancos Suizos, y el West
Implementation Completetion Report Credito 3449-CO



MINISTERIO DC DESAMOOUO ECONOMICO
I-      INSTITUTO
ffDE OMENTO
X    INDUSTRIAL
DISARROLLO JMPRESARIAL PARA TODOS        5
LB, como Managers el Banco Exterior de Espafla, el Beerliner Bank AG y el DG Bank y como co-
manager el Orix USA Corporation.
Adicionalmente se realiz6 en julio de 1996 la emisi6n de las Euronotas de Mediano Plazo por valor
de US$125 millones. La operaci6n fue liderada por la Uni6n de Bancos Suizos, con participaci6n
de Merry Linch, Citibank, Banco Santander, Banker Trust, Dresdner Bank, ING Barings y CS First
Boston.
El prestatario acordara con el Banco vender las acciones en el capital social u otra participaci6n de
capital en las Companias que se han determinado en el Grupo B, (Anexo 1) en las siguientes fechas:
13 a 31 de diciembre de 1993, 19 a 31 de diciembre de 1994 y 24 a 31 de diciembre de 1995.
A diciembre de 1995, el IFI poseia inversi6n en 34 empresas, por un valor de $76.285 millones. De
estas inversiones, 20 empresas se encuentran en operacion, 6 en preoperaci6n, 4 en liquidaci6n y 4
en concordato. El 63,67% de dichas inversiones se realiz6 en el sector manufacturero, 27,31% en
establecimientos financieros, 4,39% en el sector servicios, 1,91% en el sector transporte y el
restante 2,72% a otros sectores.
Del total de 24 empresas del Grupo B, 15 fueron vendidas, Colombo-Coreana de Seda S.A.,
Companifa Pesquera Colombiana S:A., Companfa Colombiana de Astilleros S.A., Corporaci6n
Financiera Popular S.A., Fabrica de Textiles del Tolima S.A., Fertilizantes Colombianos S.A.,
Industria Quimica Penwalt S.A., Productora de Vinos Colombo Argentina S.A., Textiles Espinal
S.A., Productora de Derivados de la Sal S.A., Procarb6n de Occidente S.A., Quibi S.A., Catsa S.A.
y Frigopesca S.A.; 1 tiene castigo contable, Metales Preciosos del Choc6 S.A.; 1 se encuentra en
proceso de liquidaci6n, Maritimas del Caribe; 5 serian "invendibles" y se encuentran provisionadas,
Artesanias de Colombia S.A., Procultura S.A., Carbones de Colombia S.A., Pestolu S.A. y
Federaltex S.A.; 1 en "stand by", Venezolana de Nitr6geno C.A. y 1 que se decidi6 no venderse,
Fondo Nacional de Garantias.
Implementation Completetion Report Credito 3449-CO



MINISTEtIO DE DEsARROLO ECONOMICO
INSTITUTO
NUDE FOMENTO
ME I XNDUSTRIAL
DESARROLLO IMPRESARIAL PAPA TO D O        6
2.    LOGRO DE LOS OBJETIVOS
Resumen de Evaluaci6n del Credito (*)
Logro de los Objetivos    Considerable     Parcial      Insignificante   No aplicable
Politicas-Macroecon6micas |___|==___I___                                       x
Poifticas Sectoriales( 1)                                       X
Objetivos Financieros(2)         X
Desarrollo Institucional(2)      X
Objetivos Fisicos                                                              X
Reducci6n de la Pobreza                                                        X
Generaci6n de Ventas                                                           X
Otros Objetivos Sociales                                 _____                 X
Objetivos Ambientales                                                          X
Manejo Sector Publico                                                          X
Desarrollo Sector Privado(3)                                    X
Otros
(*) No incluye evaluaci6n sobre los sub-pr6stamos.
(1) Sector Industrial Colombiano
(2) Instituto de Fomento Industrial
(3) Sector Financiero e Industrial Colombiano
3.  FACTORES QUE AFECTARON EL PROYECTO
Los componentes del proyecto se vieron afectados por los siguientes factores:
TRAMO A:
* La necesidad de ajustar la tasa de interes de los sub-prestamos, con el prop6sito de que reflejara
adecuadamente las condiciones de mercado, lo que retras6 en algunas ocasiones el desembolso
de los mismos.
* La apertura econ6mica que se habia previsto desarrollar en un periodo de 4 aflos, se realiz6 en I
afno, lo que signific6 cambios radicales en algunas empresas, lo que afect6 el desembolso de los
sub-prestamos.
Implementation Completetion Report Credito 3449-CO



MSTE ODE DESAROLLO ECONOMICO
gu_       INSTITUTO
gXDE fOMENTO
DISIOLO BMPESARiAL PARA TODOS           7
TRAMO B:
* La interpretaci6n y reglamentaci6n del articulo 60 de la nueva Constituci6n Politica de 1991 que
impuso a las entidades del Estado la obligaci6n, en procesos de privatizaci6n de empresas, de
ofrecer inicialmente a los trabajadores y grupos solidarios dichas propiedades en condiciones
preferenciales.
* La redefinici6n del papel del Banco de la Republica por la Constituci6n Politica de Colombia, lo
que restringi6 su funci6n de banco de segundo piso, la cual se traslado al Instituto de Fomento
Industrial.
* La orientaci6n que el actual gobierno en su Plan Nacional de Desarrollo "El Salto Social", le dio
al Instituto, al denominarlo "el instrumento esencial para el fomento del desarrollo industrial y
convertirlo en la cabeza del financiamiento industrial". Dicha orientaci6n dio origen a la
transformaci6n del Instituto en banco de segundo piso, dando prelaci6n al otorgamiento de las
lineas de credito de mediano y largo plazo y democratizando el credito dirigido a las micro,
pequeflas y medianas empresas.
* El Plan Nacional para la Microempresa, Documento CONPES 2732 del 21 de Septiembre de
1994, contempl6 el fortalecimiento del programa en marcha para la atenci6n a la Pequeina y
Mediana Empresa -PROPYME-, asignandole un presupuesto de desembolsos de $600.000
millones para el periodo 1994-1998 y estableci6 el programa crediticio para la microempresa, a
traves de FINURBANO (sistema de financiamiento para el sector), con un presupuesto igual de
$600.000 millones para el mismo cuatrienio. La responsabilidad de adelantar estos programas se
le asign6 al IFI.
* Con respecto a las inversiones de capital de riesgo, el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo determin6 que
el IFI, deberia dar prioridad a inversiones en empresas industriales y en el desarrollo de canales
de comercializaci6n internacional. Las inversiones en empresas manufactureras estaran
orientadas hacia aquellas que tengan ventajas estrategicas para el desarrollo industrial del pais,
empresas con contenido tecnol6gico, empresas que contribuyan a consolidar las cadenas
productivas existentes, generando encadenamientos o externalidades especiales que aumenten la
competitividad de las empresas en operaci6n.
* La Junta Directiva en su deliberaci6n sobre el tema relacionado con el Plan de Transici6n de
Banco de Primer Piso a Banco de Segundo Piso del Instituto, mantuvo la posici6n de conservar
una composicion de 40% credito directo y 60% credito de redescuento, de tal forma que conlleve
al cumplimiento de los objetivos de democratizaci6n y descentralizaci6n del credito y al mismo
tiempo, le permitan al IFI operar con eficiencia y rentabilidad financiera. Dicha composici6n
debera ser permanente en el tiempo, sin condicionamientos cualitativos tanto de credito como de
inversiones de capital de riesgo. Sin embargo, se enfatiz6 sobre la necesidad de que los creditos
de primer piso fueran analizados cuidadosamente para asegurar que sean "bancables" y
Implementation Completetion Report Credito 3449-CO



MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
-3      INSTITUTO
NUDE FOMENTO
ENX  INDUSTRIAL
DESARROUO EMPRESARIAL PARA TOWS            8
manifest6 que las inversiones que realice el IFI deben ser rentables dentro del enfoque de
sostenibilidad con criterio social, aceptando los indicadores de eficiencia y eficacia de acuerdo
con los estandares internacionales para una banca estatal.
4. CUMPLIMIENTO DEL BANCO
Altamente Satisfactorio    Satisfactorio     Deficiente
Identificaci6n                          X              _
Asistencia en la Preparaci6n                       X  _L _
Evaluaci6n                              X              _
Supervisi6n                             X              _
5. CUMIPLIMIENTO DEL PRESTATARIO
Altamente Satisfactorio    Satisfactorio     Deficiente
Preparaci6n                             X
Implementaci6n                                                X
Cumplimiento del contrato                                     X
Operaci6n                               X
6. EVALUACION DE LOS RESULTADOS
Altamente Satisfactorio    Satisfactorio        Deficien
Implementation Completetion Report Credito 3449-CO



MJNSTRIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
IN5TITUTO
ffXDE rOMENTO
INDUSTRIAL
DESARRLO WESARZAL MM TOO
ANEXO No.1
SUB- PRESTAMOS LINEA 3449-CO
EMPRESA                       VALOR               VALOR    SECTOR ECONOMICO   SECTOR
PRESTAMO EN PRESTAMO EN                                           GEOGRAFICO
US$               COL$
BIOFILM LTDA.                                 2.191.655,67     2.820.923.845,97 QUIMICOS Y CAUCHOS        CARTAGENA
HOTEL SANTA CLARA                             7.500.000,00     9.653.400.000,00 HOTELES Y RESTAURANTES BOGOTA
HOTEL VALLE REAL                                245.000,00       315.344.400,00 HOTELES Y RESTAURANTES CALI
HOTEL LA CASCADA                               1.205.000,00    1.550.979.600,00 HOTELES Y RESTAURANTES ARMENIA
INVERSIONES ARAUJO PERDOMO                      500.000,00       643.560.000,00 SERVICIOS A EMPRESAS      CARTAGENA
INGENIO PICHICHI                              2.600.000,00     3.346.512.000,00 PROD. ALIMENTICIOS        CALI
INHOTELES S.A.                                  549.000,00       706.628.880,00 HOTELES Y RESTAURANTES MEDELLIN
INDUSTRIA COLOMBIANA DE LLANTAS               10.580.744,48   13.618.687.835,10 QUIMICOS Y CAUCHOS        BOGOTA
LAB.GENER.FARMAC. GEN-FAR S.A.                 1.260.000,00    1.621.771.200,00 PROD. TEXTILES            BOGOTA
LLOREDA GRASAS                                4.538.000,00     5.840.950.560,00 PROD. ALIMENTICIOS        CALI
MINIPAK S.A.                                  4.396.802,00     5.659.211.790,24 QUIMICOS Y CAUCHOS        BOGOTA
MONOFIL S.A.                                    240.000,00       308.908.800,00 QUIMICOS Y CAUCHOS        BOGOTA
MATERIALES DE COLOMBIA S.A.                   2.891.200,00     3.721.321.344,00 FAB.PROD. MINERALES       BOGOTA
PAPELES Y CARTONES S.A.                       3.629.352,09     4.671.411.662,08 PAPEL Y SUS PRODUCTOS    MEDELLIN
QUIMICA INTERNAL S.A. QUINTAL                  1.675.000,00    2.155.926.000,00 PROD. TEXTILES           BARRANQUILLA
SCHLAGE LOCK DE COLOMBIA S.A.                   209.200,00       269.265.504,00 MAQUINARIA Y EQUIPO      BOGOTA
QUIMICA INDUSTRIAL Y TEXTIL S.A.               937.289.,10     1.206.403.546,39 PROD. TEXTILES           BOGOTA
SOCIEDAD HOTELERA LAS ACACIAS                  2.40.000,00     2.625.724.800,00 HOTELES Y RESTAURANTES BOGOTA
47.188.243,34  60.736.931.767,78
Implementation Completetion Report Credito 3449-CO



