'  Z.AI 3/  /f 4FCO
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICICE C'OPY
Report No. 10041-CO
Report No. 10041'-CO   Tyje: (SAR)
JAIME, A  / X39344 / I5141/ LA3TF
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
IFI RE83TRUCTURING AND DIVESTITURE PROJECT
FEBRUARY 12, 1992
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distributionk and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officfal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoxt World Bank authoriation.
.    .    ,    ,,  _   _  ,   _   , , , ,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 31, 1990)
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1.00 - Col$568.73
Col$1.O0 - US$0.00176
PISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF COLMBIA ANDk IFI
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCH               Banco Central Hipotecario
BFI               Bono de Fomento Industrial
BR                Banco de la Republica
BVC               Bono de Valor Constante
CAP               Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento
CAR               Regional Environmental Agency
CAV               Corporaci6n de Ahorro y Vivienda
CPP               Corporacion Financiera Popular
CF                Corporacion Pinanciera
CKD               Completely Knocked-Down Kit
CONPES            Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y Social
CPI               Consumer Price Index
DEP               Division for Environmental Policy
DFC               Development Finance Corporation
DTF               Deposito de Termino Fijo
PEN               Financiera El6ctrica Nacional
FCE               Fondo de Capitalizacion Empresarial
FFI               Fondo Financiero Industrial
FIP               Fondo para Inversiones Privadas
FINDETER          Financiera do Desarrollo Territorial
FINAGRO           Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
ICT               Instituto de Cr6dito Territorial
IFI               Instituto de Pomento Industrial
LIBOR             London Interbank Offered Rate
MIS               Management Information System
NIC               Newly Industrialized Country
PFI               Participating Financial Intermediary
PRIME             Interest rate charged by U.S. banks to pr.eferential customers
PROEXPO           Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones
PSRL              Public Sector Reform Loan
SAFICO            Andean Trade Financing System
SME               Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
TCC               Tasa de Captaci6n Corporaciones
TFP               Total Factor Productivity



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
IXF RESTRUCUNG, An DIVESTIUEPROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page. No.
Loan and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i
I.   THE SECTORAL CONTEXT  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . 1
A.   Macroeconomic Performance and Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . 1
B.   The Industrial Sector    o .  . . ... . ..........           2
C.   The Financial Sector  . . . . . . . . ,.  . . . . . . . . . . 4
IT.  HISTORY OF THE INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL    . . . . . . . . . 10
A.   Background    .  .   . .  .  .  .  .    .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
B.   Organizational Structure    .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
co   Investments   . . . . . . . . e       X           12
C.   Credit     .     .   .   .  .   .  .  .  .  . *  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  12
E.   Sources of Funds  . .. ... ....... .......    15
F.   IFI's Financial Condition . . e . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Go   Earnings  .  .  .  .  .  .  a  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  o  a .  . .  .  .  17
III. THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .o . . . . .  18
A.   Project Objectives  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . .  18
B.   IFI's New Strategy and Policies . . . . . . .  .  .  .  . . . .  18
C.   Financial and Institutional Restructuring of IFI  . . . . .  22
D.   The Divestiture of IFI's Portfolio  . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
E.   Restructuring and r,vestiture of Special Companies  . * * *  27
F.   Projected Financial Results . . . .  .  .  . . . . o  . o . . o  34
IV.  PAST BANK EXPERIENCE IN INDUSTRIAL SECTOR LENDING . . . . . . . . . 37
A.  Past Bank Assistance to Colombian Industry  . . . . . . . . . . 37
B. Lessor.s Learned from previous Bank Operations . * * * * * , , * 38
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in May 1991. The mission was composed of Messrs. Andres Jaime
(LA3TF) and Ira Lieberman (Consultant). Project preparation was also carried
out in previous missions by Hu. Kris Hallberg and Messrs. Howard Jones and
Roger Heath. Me. Antonieta Rodriguez assisted in the production of the
report. Peer review was provided by Mmes. Rrls Hallberg and Herminia
Martinez.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank au(horization.



V.    THE PROPOSED LOAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
A.    Relation to the Country Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . . .  40
B.    Objectives, Strategies, and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . .  40
C.    Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
D.    Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
E.    Relending Terms and Conditions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
F.    Project Implementation  . . . . . .   a . . . . .  .   . . . . . 43
G.    Project Benefits and Risks  . . . . . .. . .  . .  . .  . .    46
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47



COLOMBIA
IF! RESTRUCTURING AND DIVESTITURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LIST OF ANNEXES
Pase No.
Annex I:    IPI Policy Letter  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Annex II:    Organization Charts  . . . .               . . . . . . . 56
Annex III:  IFI Credit
Table 1:  Credit Approvals, 1984-90  . . . . . . . . . 58
Table 2:  Credit by Subsector, 1986-90   . . . . . . . 59
Table 3:  Credit by Type of Credit and Firm, 1984-90 . 60
Table 4:  Loans to Companies in Which IFI has
Investments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  61
Figure 1: Interest Rates on IFI Credit, 1987-90  . . . 62
Annex IV:   IFI Investment Portfolio and Divestiture Plan
Table 1:  Companies Sold since 1988  . . . . . . . . . 63
Table 2:  IFI Liquidations .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .. .     64
Table 3:  IFI Investments:  Relevant Financial Data  . 65
Table 4:  Companies in the 1991-1994 Divestiture Plan  67
Annex V:     Special Cases in the Investment Portfolio  . . . . . . . 69
Annex VI:    IFI Financial Statements
Table 1:  Balance Sheets . . . . ..  . .  . . . . . . . 79
Table 2:  Income Statements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Table 3:  Bonos de Valor Constante . . . . . . . . . . 81
Annex VII:   IFI Financial Projections
Table 1:  Projected Balance Sheets . . . . . . . . . . 82
Table 2:  Projected Income Statements  . . . . . . . . 83
Table 3:  Projected Financial Indicators . . . . . . . 84
Annex VIII: Technical Assistance Component
Management Information Systems Technical Assistance  . 85
Training Program (1991-94) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Cost Breakdown of Technical Assistance Component . .   87
Annex IX:    Terms of Reference for Studies under TA Component
Terms of Reference for Cerro V'atoso Study  . . . . . . 88
Terms of Reference for Monomeros Study . .  .  . . . . . 91
Terms of Reference for Concesion Salinas Study . . . . 94
Terms of Reference for IPI Privatization Study . . . . 97
Annex X:     Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . .. . .       . . 101
Annex XI:    Items for Mid-term Review  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  102



COLOMBIA
IFX RESTRUCTURING AND DIVESTITURE PROJECT
Lon dProieSuar
Borrower:             Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI)
Guarantor:            Republic of Colombia
Beneficiaries:        (i) Instituto de Fomento Industrial; and (ii) Private
industrial and service enterprises requiring long term credit,
equity financing, and/or other financial services.
Loan mount:           US$100 million equivalent.
Terms:                To be repaid in 17 years including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:      IFI would lend directly to productive enterprises as a first
tier financial institution. Loans would be denominated in US
dollars and would carry domestic market interest rates for
foreign exchange loans, i.e. PRIME or LIBOR plus a margin
sufficient to cover intermediation costs and lending risks.
Project               The objectives of the Project are: (i) to implement a
Obiectives:           divestiture and privatization program of IFI's existing equity
holdings, including the development and implementation of
individual restructuring and divestiture plans; (ii) to support
the implementation of a new corporate strategy for IFI which
will reorient its role in industrial and financial sector
development by transforming it into a more efficient financial
institution that can compete on an equal basis in the financial
markets -- in the process enhancing compeLition in such markets
and filling gaps in financial services needed to support
investments consistent with the liberalization of the economy.
Achievement of these two objectives would pave the way for the
eventual privatization of IFI itself, for which a specific plan
would be drawn up under the project. Moreover, the project
would set strict financial performance criteria in order to
guide IFI through the transition period in reaching this
ultimate objective.
Project               The Project would include: (i) a restructuring and divestiture
Descrrivtion:         program of IPI's equity holdings which would help eliminate
IFI's state holding company role and would allow it to become a
genuinely market-oriented financial intermediary. The program
encompasses the remaining 29 equity investments in IFI's
portfolio, which would be privatized, liquidated or
transfcrred; (ii) a credit program to be onlent by IFI to
private productive enterprises to finance investment in fixed
assets and working capital; and (iii) technical assistance,
training and management information systems to support
strategic and organizational changes in IFI, and investment
banking and other services to assist IFI in implementing its
divestiture program.



- li -
Proiect Benefits:    The Project would improve the financial situation and
operational efficiency of IFI and support the withdrawal of the
public sector from productive sector activities. By
reorienting IFI's lending and investment strategy, the project
would contribute to the development of long term credit,
capital markets and other financial services, and would
facilitate the supply response to the trade and financial
aector reform. The Project would support Private Sector
Development through: (i) privatization of public sector
investments in the industrial sector; (ii) financial support
for private enterprises' investment through the provicion of
term credit; and (iii) transforming a large public development
bank into an effic'.ent and competitive financial intermediary
serving the private sector, and ultimately privatizing it.
Project Risks:        Project risks include the possibility that the Government and
IFI would fail to complete the divestiture program and to
eliminate the special regime and subsidies under which IFI has
operated. Colombia's commitment to reform in the trade,
financial and public enterprise sectors during recent years, as
evidenced by the strong measures taken, suggest that these
risks are not excessive.
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign   Total        %
Credit program                      249.7    161.0    410.7        99X
Technical assistance                   1.7      2.9       4.6       12
TOTAL                                251.4    163.9    415.3      100%
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign   Total        %
World Bank Loan                        1.1     98.9    100.0       24Z
IPI Funds                            127.1             127.1       31%
BR Rediscount Lines                            65.0     65.0       16%
Firms' Internal Funds                123.2             123.2       30%
TOTAL                               251.4    163.9    415.3       100%
Estimated
Disbursements:         FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Annual        3.0    10.8    27.2    27.7    20.3        7.7     3.3
Cumulative    3.0    13.8    41.0    68.7    89.0    96.7   100.0
Rate of Return:    Subprojects under the credit component would require at least a
12 percent financial rate of return.
Maps                n/a



COLOMBIA
IFI RESTRUCTURING AND DIVESTITURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Macroeconomic Performance and Policies
1.        Colombia has been one of the most stable economies in the developing
world, with growth averaging 4.5S over the past four decades. During the
1980s, however, external shocks and weaknesses in the economy resulted in
deteriorated fiscal balances, inflationary pressures and sluggish growth. To
remedy this, in late 1984 the Government introduced an economic adjustment
program designed to achieve stabilization with growth. The authorities first
stabilized the economy and then launched a medium-term program to address
structural problems which, left untreated, would suppress long-term growth
prospects. The administration that took office in August 1990 markedly
increased the pace of the reform program, which is aimed essentially at more
efficient use of resources through opening the economy to the competition and
opportunities of international markets. To achieve this, the Government is
strengthening macroeconomic management, reforming its trade regime,
restructuring and downsizing the public sector, liberalizing the industrial
and agricultural sectors and modernizing the financial sector.
2.        One of the Government's main macroeconomic policy objectives since
1988 has been to moderate the rise in inflation. Nevertheless, the
authorities failed in the last two years to meet the inflation target in the
macroeconomic program, ending 1990 with one of the highest inflation rates in
the last 20 years. In late 1990, the Government initiated an anti-inflation
program with the objective of reducing inflation to 22% by the end of 1991.
Fiscal policy was tightened in late 1990, and aided by high petroleum prices
and the real devaluation of the peso, the fiscal deficit fell to 0.3% of GDP
for 1990 as a whole. Though the fiscal element of the Government's
stabilization strategy was significant, the main instrument of the anti-
inflation program has been contractionary monetary policy -- limiting the
growth in base money to an annual rate of 18-20%, increasing placements of
open market instruments, and imposing a temporary 100% marginal reserve
requirement.
3.        As part of the medium term macroeconomic program, the Government has
also launched a public sector reform program to improve the efficiency of
public investment and public sector management. The main objectives of the
program are (i) to strengthen the linkages between macroeconomic and sectoral
programming, ensuring the application of adequate criteria in the evaluation
and selection of public investment projects, improving the efficiency of
operations and investment of public entities, and rationalizing the Central
Government's role in the management of decentralized public entities; (ii) to
promote private sector development, by opening to the private sector areas
previously reserved for the public sector, reducing Government intervention
and increasing competition via the privatization of publicly owned assets in



-2
the industrial and financial sectors; and (iii) to improve efficiency in the
allocation of public resources, by rationalizing the programming and budgeting
process and reducing earmarking.
B. The Industrial Sector
4.        A distinguishing feature of the 1984-87 economic recovery was the
impressive growth of the industrial sector.  Real industrial output grew 6.0%
in 1985, 11.3% in 1986, and 6.3% in 1987; the manufacturing sector (excluding
coffee) registered growth rates of 3.6%, 4.8%, and 6.62, respectively. Since
1987, however, the growth of industrial and manufacturing output has slowed
considerably. Industrial output grew by 2.3% in both 1988 and 1989; real
manufacturing GDP (excluding coffee) grew 4.1% in 1988 and only 1.62 in 1989.
5.        Since the beginning of the adjustment program, non-coffee exports
have.increased, with particularly impressive growth rates in 1986 and 1987.
In 1986, non-coffee exports grew 24% in U.S. dollar terms; in 1987, they grew
another 57%, though coffee exports declined by 40Z due to the fall in coffee
prices. The majurity of this increase was due to growth in exports of
petroleum, coal, and nickel, though "minor exports" (including agroindustrial,
industrial, and mineral products) increased by 21% in 1986, 142 in 1987, 19%
in 1988, and 15% in 1989. The increase in minor exports during the recovery
period was largely explained by the significant real devaluation of the peso
that was a cornerstone of the adjustment program.
6.        Despite the encouraging recovery of industrial output and exports
during the adjustment period, this growth has not been the result of or
accompanied by significant structural change. The importance of industry in
Colombia has been and continues to be lower than in other Latin American
countries and newly industrializing countries. The contribution of
manufacturing to GDP has remained relatively constant since the mid-1970s, in
contrast to the increased importance of this sector in other newly
industrializing countries. Though the composition of manufacturing shifted
toward intermediate and capital goods during the first stages of import
substitution industrialization, growth in these sectors has slowed. Non-
durable consumer goods now account for more than half of manufacturing output,
in contrast to the greater importance of intermediate and capital goods in
other NICs.
7.        The inward orientation of industry also did not change significantly
during the 1980s. The growth of minor exports has been concentrated in a few
agroindustrial and industrial products, and the value of minor exports has
just now recovered to its pre-recession level. The export orientation of most
industries remains relatively low and, in many cases, below that of the 1970s;
exporting continues to be a marginal activity for most industrial firms.
Thus, a fundamental shift in the structure or market orientation of industry
does not seem to have occurred. The exhaustion of import substitution
activities and the inward orientation of the trade regime have limited
industrial expansion to the growth of the domestic market.
8.        In addition, an examination of total factor productivity (TFP)
growth indicates that manufacturing output growth has been costly, in the



sense that it has been mainly due to expansion in the quantities of resources
used (primarily capital) rather than increases in the efficiency of reoource
use. The contribution of TFP growth to output growth has teen low, and
frequently negative. In manufacturing, negative rates of productivity growth
were evident not only during the recession of the early 1980s, when capacity
was underutilized, but also during the economic expansion of the late 1970s.
9.        Recent Bank sector work underscores the importance of the lack of
both internal and external competition iU explaining the absence of structural
change in the industrial sector.' The inward-oriented trade regime has
affected industrial performance both directly via its impact on relative
prices, and indirectly by limiting competitive pressure. The coverage of
domestic manufacturing production by quantitative restrictions (import
licenses), calculated in February 1990 at 84%, was high by international
standards, and the dispersion across sectors and subsectors in the degree of
coverage by import licenses creates non-neutral incentives across different
import substitution activities as well as between import substitution
activities and exports. The protective effect of the trade regime reinforces
the lack of competitive pressure felt by industrial firms in domestic markets,
which tend to be characterized by stable oligopolies.
10.       The Government has recognized that to achieve more dynamic and less
costly industrial growth, Colombia must change from an inward-oriented to an
outward-oriented development strategy. In early 1990, the Government
announced the adoption of a medium-term economic program (Programa de
Modernizacion de la Economia Colombiana), Xocused on trade reform to gradually
expose domestic producers to external competition and reduce administrative
control over imports. Additional measures are included to increase the
efficiency of transport services, simplify export requirements and incentives,
reduce price controls, and control unfair trade practices. The first phase of
the program, which began in February 1990 and t:as intended to last two years,
replaced quantitative restrictions with tariffs and thb exchange rate as the
main instruments of protection. The second phase, originally planned for the
period 1991-94, was designed to incretse the degree of import competition by
gradually reducing the level and dispersion of tariff protection, and by
simplifying and making more t-ansparent the tariff regime. At the end of
1990, the Government announced the final targets for the 4-year program, which
were an import-weighted average tariff of 152 and a maximum of 25%, to be
reached by 1994.
11.       In a remarkably bold action, the Government decided in August 1991
to advance the trade reform program by 3 years and move immediately to the
final targets of protection. The new regime establishes a maximum tariff of
23% and a weighted average tariff of 12.6% (14.8% unweighted). Moreover, the
trade reform is being complemented by an Industrial Restructuring and
Development Program to speed the supply response of industry to the trade
reform and reduce the costs of adjustment. The restructuring program includes
industrial policy reforms as well as detailed restructuring programs for
t"Colombia: Industrial Competition and Performance", Report No. 7921-CO,
June 28, 1990 (gray cover).



-4-
individual subaectors. Finally, in the program supported by the proposed
project, the Government intends to reduce the role of the public sector in
industrial production and strengthen the industrial development contribution
of the Instituto de Fomento Industrial.
C. The Financial Sector
12.       Financial markets in Colombia are characterized by a continuing lack
of long term credit and underdeveloped capital markets, imperfect competition
in financial intermediation, credit allocation based overwheltingly on a
collateral basis rather than on financial or economic project evaluation, and
a disproportionately low share of credit allocated to medium-scale firma. At
the samo time, the Government's trade reform program creates the need for
financing new firms, products, and technologies with a wider range of
financial instruments. Instituto de Pomento Industrial (IFI)'s new strategy
(Section III. B) is designed to contribute to address these needs.
13.       Market structure and deRree of compotition.  Colombia's banking
system includes 26 commercial banks (16 private and 10 public, including five
that were nstionalized in 1982); 24 development finance corporations
(corporaciones financieras, or CFs), of which 17 are private and 7 are public;
11 savings and loan institutions (corporaciones de ahorro y vivienla, or
CAVs); and 32 trade finance companies. The Central Bank (Banco de la
Republica, or BR), in addition to its role as the monetary authority, plays a
significant role in credit markets. Institutional investors (insurance
companies, investment, mutual, pension, and retirement funds, social security
schemes, and trust companies) are very small relative to the banking system,
accounting for about 4% of total financial system assets.
14.       The oligopolistic structure of the financial system is evident.
The four largest commercial banks account for more than 45% of the assets of
the banking sector; the market for long term credit is dominated by six CFs
that have traditionally intermediated BR development credit lines. The public
sector is an important agent in financial markets, accounting for more than
half of the total assets of the financial sector. Finally, there has been a
trend toward the formation of financial groups, some of which started
primarily as industrial groups and expanded into the financial area as a means
of facilitating access to low cost deposits or subsidized credit.
15.       In spite of the large number of financial institutions, the
financing capacity of the sector is small relative to the financing needs of
large projects. Financing of large projects by individual financial
institutions is limited, due to their relatively small size. Although there
is some syndication of loans among financial institutions, these practices are
not standardized. In addition, the fact that few domestic banks have
established relationships with correspondent banks abroad limits their ability
to provide loans denominated in foreign currency. No significant new
financial instruments have been introduced since the highly successful UPAC
instrument was introduced in 1972. This is partly the result of imperfect
competition in the financial sector and partly due to regulations that
prevailed until recently on the instruments that could be offered by different
types of financial institutions.



-5- 
l6.       Credit markets.  As in most countries in Latin America, the
Colombian financial market has a heavy emphaois otI the short-term end of the
-market.  Commercial banks lend almost exclusively on a 90-day basis against
heavy collateral requirements, and the long tern  lending of CFs has declined.
Only the CAVe and the Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH) are active in long term
n'turities, specializing in financing housing and urban development through
term transformation, while long term credit for industry and agriculture
continues to be provided primarily through rediscounting credit lines.
17.       The main types of specialized credit for industry have been:  (i)
development credit lines offered by BR as rediscount lines to financial
intermediaries (Fondo para Inversiones Privadas (PIP) for large scale
enterprises; Fondo Financiero Industrial ("FI) for small and medium scale
enterprises; and Fondo de Capitalizacion T . lresarial (FCE) for enterprise
capitalization), totalling Col$S2.4 billiv  outstanding as of August 1990;
(ii) external credit lines supported principally by World Bank and IDB loans
and channelled to financial intermediaries through BR (Col$63.3 billion);
(iii) Fondo de Promoci6n de Exportaciones (PROEXPO) credit for export
financing and export-related investment (Col$286.4 billion); and (iv) credit
provided by the Instituto de Fomento Industrial, using both its own funds and
BR rediscount lines (Col$73.4 billion). Directed credit has accounted for a
substantial share of lending by formal financial institutions to che
manufacturing sector, averaging 6&. over 1984-87.
18.       Although interest rates on most directed credit lines were
historically below market rates, the policy trend has clearly been to increase
these interest rates, moving them closer to market rates, and to reduce the
dispersion in rates across sectors and characteristics of borrowers. Interest
rates on the three BR development credit lines to industry have been increased
and homogenized, both with respect to the rates charged to final users and the
rates charged by BR to participating financial intermediaries, and recently
adopted regulations allow partial capitalization of interest and higher final
intereElt rates according to loan maturity. Though PROEXPO interest rates were
increased in November 1990, they are the lowest of all directed credit lines.
Finally, interest rates on credit provided by IPI have recently been
harmonized and moved toward market rates (para. 49).
19.       Traditionally, the credit decisions of financial institutions in
Colombia have been tied to the capacity of the borrower to supply collateral.
There is less lending on the cash flow potential of individual projects, or on
the expected return of the investmenc. This leads to a problem of economic
efficiency -- since funds are not always allocated to the iighest return
activities -- as well as a problem of political economy, since credit becomes
an instrument of maintaining or increasing the concentration of wealth.
20.       The failure of financial intermediaries to allocate credit based on
project evaluation is attributable to a lack of reliable information on
potential borrowers, the previous practice of the Superintendencia Bancaria of
evaluating loan portfolios based on collateral sufficiency, imperfect
competition in financial markets, and (in the case of directed credit) the
desire to minimize risk on loans with fixed intermediation margi.s. A major



-6-
concern related to the collateral-based allocation of credit is that the
industrial restructuring ar.4 export supply response to the recently announced
trade reform -- which would be expected to be characterized by new firms, new
products and technologies, and new markets -- could be financially
constrained.
21.       Capital markets.  Securities markets remain insignificant in size:
few firms are listed on the excihanges, and the value of shares traded is
small. Ownership of shares is highly concentrated, and minority shareholders
have little impaot on the market. The reasons behind the lack of development
of capital markets in Colombia are many and complex. From the point of view
of firms, the main reasons for the lack of interest in securities markets have
been the availability of directed credit at below-market interest rates and
(until the 1986 tax reform) tax policies thaLt favored debt over equity
financing; ard the concentration of ownersaip in the industrial sector and the
reluctance of owners to share control (sometimes due to concerns over
takeovers by illegal sources of income). The disclosure requirements of firms
listed on the exchange, which art. not required of unlisted firms, discourage
firms from using the securities market. From the point of view of investors,
the lack of interest in securities markets can be explained by low after-tax
returns and the reluctance to acquire minority ownership in a market
characterized by concentrated ownership.
22.       The 1986 tax reform began to remove the bias toward debt financing
by eliminating the deductibility of the inflationary portion of interest
payments (to be phased in over the next several years) and double taxation of
dividends. Recently, there has been an increased volume of bonds issued by
both public sector institutions and some large private corporations.
23.       Financial policy reform.  Following the 1982-85 financial crisis,
the Government's financisl policy efforts correctly focused on strengthening
weak financial institutions and improving prudential regulation in order to
avoid such crisis in the future.  Today, the financial system is subject to
capital adequacy rules that follow the guidelines of the Basel accord; has
portfolio classification and provisioning rules that are similar to those used
in industrialized countries; has stringent regulations on exposure limits and
portfolio diversification, as well as limits on transactions with related
parties; and is subject to accounting and auditing standards that allow
efficient Government supervision. The recovery of the sector is clearly
reflacted in the profitability, solvency and risk of financial institutions,
particularly during the past three years.
24.       With these achievements, the Government has now been able to shift
its attention to increasing competition in the financial sector, in order to
improve allocative efficiency, reduce intermediation costs, and broaden the
range of financial instruments. At the same time, efforts to gradually reduce
and ultimately eliminate the distortions created by the system of forced
investments and directed credit can be continued.
25.       The need for this change in focus is greater than ever.  The shift
to an outward-oriented model of development requires a range of financial
instruments and an allocation of financial resources different from those



-7-
required under the import substitution strategy of development, and the
ability of domestic producers to compete in international markets depends
partly on their access to flexible, low cost financing.
26.       The administration that took office in Akugust 1990, recognizing the
importance of improving competition and efficiency in the financial sector in
ite economic modernization program, announced its intention to pursue a
structural reform program for the financial sector. In December 1990,
Congress approved a financial sector reform law which authorized the
Government to introduce the necessary institutional and regulatory changes
that would encourage an increase in the depth and competitiveness of the
financial system. In April 1991, the Government defined a financial sector
policy framework establishing the structural reforms to be implemented during
the remainder of the administration.
27.       The Government's program of financial sector policy reforms is
inten.ed to lead to a more efficient financial sector characterized by greater
competition, a size capable of mobilizing domestic and external resources to
finance investments in the productive sectors, and a wide range of financial
instruments provided at market prices, including voluntary long-term credit
and capital market instruments. The prograra includes reforms in three major
areas: competition policies, reserve requirements and forced investments, and
directed credit. During the current administration, the Government is
committed to:
increasing market contestaoility by facilitating the entry and exit
of both domestic and foreign financial institutions, and by reducing
regulatory and informational barriers to competition;
*    reducing, simplifying, and rationalizing the overall burden of
reserve requirements and forced investments consistent with monetary
and fiscal targets;
*    phasing out forced investments, except those financing credit
programs for well-defined target groups to achieve equity
objectives, and agricultural credit through the new second-tier
sector intermediary FINAGRO;
*    reorienting the role of the pub ic sector in the mobilization and
allocation of financial resources to the productive sectors by
increasing the specialization of second-tier institutions in
channelling external sources of credit to broadly defined productive
sectors;
*    putting in place demand-responsive mechanisms which provide for
flexible interest rate determination in order to reflect the
scarcity value of funds lent from second-tier to first-tier
financial instituti4ns;
*    liberalizing fully interest rates charged by first-tier institutions
to final borrowers, and



defining a strictly limited number of specific target groups for
which initerest subsidies through the financial system may be the
most effective way to achieve equity objectives, and, to the maximtum
extent possible given fiscal constraints, funding these subsidies
from the fiscal budget.
Specific steps taken and to be taken according to the 4-year reform program
are detailed below:
29.       Competition Dolicies.  The Government intends to bring to the point
of sale all five banks nationalized during the 1982-85 financial crisis, which
represent about 25% of total banking assets. The first three banks have
already been put on the market, and the first two have recently been sold.
In addition, the Government intends to clarify the role and functions of
remaining public financial institutions and move in the direction of making
them profit oriented and/or privatizing them. The Government has recently
announced its specific intention of privatizing, at least partially, Banco
Cafetero and Banco Ganadero.
30.       Reforms in the regulatory framework are intended to encourage more
competitive behavior among financial institutions and to reduce regulatory
barriers that artificially segment markets. Legislation passed in December
1990 allows up to 100% ownership and control of financial institutions by
foreign investors. The December 1990 law allowsf free entry of new financial
institutions, subject to minimum capital requirements and the suitability of
ownership and management; allows free entry into all segments of the market so
that no special competitive advantage is granted to certain financial agents;
facilitates conversion from one type of financial institution to another when
minimum capital requirements are fulfilled; simplifies the regulations
governing liquidations, mergers, and foreign investment in the financial
system; and improves regulations regarding the flow of information to market
participants.
31.       Reserve requirements and forced investments.  Forced investments
(portfolio requirements as a share of deposits or assets of financial
institutions, at below-market returns) have been used as a source of funds for
directing credit to the private sector and a number of public agencies.  These
forced investments created a significant quasi-fiscal burden on financial
institutions: in the mid-1980s, the tax on financial institutions implied by
reserve requirements and forced investments explained about half of the ten-
point average intermediation margin. Previous administrations have moved to
reduce the quasi-fiscal burden of forced investments on financial institutions
by reducing the volume of forced investments and increasing their return in
real terms. In May 1990, new forced investments from commercial banks for the
direct financing of the Central Government were eliminated, as were forced
investments used to finance the Financial Institutions Guarantee Fund. New
forced investments required of insurance companies to fund the Instituto de
Credito Territorial (ICT) were also eliminated in 1990, and bonds used to fund
FINDETER were phased out.



-9-
32.       As part of its financial sector reform program, the current
administration intends to further reduce forced investments, limiting them to
those which finance targeted credit programs and those which substitute for
direct lending requirements to the agricultural sector. All others will be
phased out by freezing the existing stock at the end-1990 level, and
restructuring the terms and conditions to make them consistent with how the
resources are being used. At the same time, the Government intends to
increase the average return on those forced investments that remain. The
quasi-fiscal burden on the financial system will fall as these measures are
taken and as existing forced investments are amortized (over an estimated six
to seven years).
33.       The Government has reduced reserve requirements and substituting
investments, and intends to continue to reduce the overall burden of forced
investments and reserve requirements in the future. As part of its anti-
inflation program, however, the Government imposed a 100% marginal reserve
requirement from January to September 1991.
34.       Directed credit and administered interest ratee.  Since the mid-
1980s, the Government has attempted gradually to reduce market segmentation
and interest rate distortions in the directed credit system. Most directed
credit interest rates -- both the rates between second- and first-tier
financial institutions, as well as lending rates to final borrowers -- have
been made variable by linking them to DTF (index of deposit interest rates).
Implicit subsidies to final borrowers of directed credit have been reduced by
raising administered lending rates toward levels similar to short term lending
rates in the uncontrolled market, and terms have been harmonized across
sectors and categories of borrowers. Recent reforms made interest rates
variable on the few agricultural credit lines with fixed nominal rates that
still remained, and interest rates on PROEXPO credit were raised and made
variable.
35.       The Gover.=ent intends to continue its reform of the directed credit
system by focusing on the coverage and role of second-tier financing
facilities, the pricing of resources between second-tier and first-tier
institutions, and the pricing of credit to final borrowers, as follows:
*    Second-tier financing facilities will be consolidated into at most
three financing institutions (currently expected to be the Central
Bank (BR), FINAGRO, and PROEXPO, recently converted into Banco de
Comercio Exterior), providing financing for the productive sectors
with the broadest possible eligibility requirements.
*    Second-tier financing facilities will become increasingly
specialized in the intermediation of external resources, such as
loans from multilateral, bilateral, and external commercial sources.
Along with the reduction in forced investments, the Government will
elaborate a program for a phased reduction in access to other
domestic sources of funds for BR and other second-tier institutions.
Excluded from this specialization are second-tier institutions
established to channel funds to decentralized public sector agencies



- 10 -
for infrastructure development (currently FINDETER for mun4.cipal
development and PEN for energy sector infrastructure).
*    Rediscount funds will be allocated from second-tier to ±irst-tier
financial institutions by demand-responsive pricing me;chanisms which
will provide flexible interest rate determination in order to
reflect the scarcity value of funds being lent. Thj Government has
reviewed the price-setting processes being used to allocate
rediscount funds in order to identify changes thec will incorporate
actual or potential demand into price adjustments, respond to
changes in market conditions, and eliminate advinistrative
discretion in ?he allocation of funds. The domand-responsive
pricing mechanisms will be extended to all setcond-tier financing
facilities, with the exception of those cha.nnelling funds for
infrastructure development.
*    Interest rates between first-tier financial institutions and final
borrowers will be fully liberalized, with the exceptions of credit
directed to specific target groups and funds channelled to
decentralized agencias for infrastructure development. Currently,
directed credit interest rates to final borrowers average 89Z of
short term market lending rates for agricultural credit, 94% for
trade finance, and 97% for municipal finance; industrial directed
credit lending rates are already at 100l of the market reference
rate. As intermediate steps, administered interest rates on
agricultural and trade credit will be gradually raised to 1002 of a
market reference rate. By early 1994, final lending rates will be
fully liberalized.
*    Subsidized credit programs will be maintained only in the case of
well-defined target groups for which credit subsidies are found to
be the most effectiva way to achieve equity objectives. These
groups would include small-scale farmers, low-income housing, and
victimo of disaster and terrorism. To the extent possible given
fiscal constraints, credit subsidies to target groups will be
financed through the fiscal budget.
*    Administered interest rates for resources charnelled through
FINDETER and PEN will be set according to market conditions.
The above reform program was agreed upon and formally conveyed to the Bank in
a Financial Policy Framework letter So April 1991.
II. HISTORY OF THE INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL
A. BAckgr-und
36.       The Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI) was established in 1940
with the objective of promoting the establishment of basic industry and the



- 11 -
initial transformation of domestic raw materials to substitute for imported
raw materials. This was in accordance with Colombia's import substitution
model of development. IFI's role was basically to invest where the private
sector did not wish to invest due to high initial investment costs and higher
than normal commercial risk. In addition, since 1963, IFI has been authorized
to function as a development bank, lending to industrial firms directly or
through other development institutions,
37.       In its early years, IFI made direct investments in the food,
beverages, tobacco, chemicals, basic metals, and textiles industries. Since
1975, emphasis has shifted to the promotion of exports (such as ferronickel
and coal) which the Government supported after the unexpected increase in
petroleum prices. In recent years, IFI has tended to concentrate its
investments in a few enterprises. This was a likely development as IFI's
sources of finance have been relatively limited, and the typical investment
for IFI was in relatively large projects. A significant share of IFI credit
has gone to enterprises in which IFI has equity participation.
38.       In retrospect, many of IFI's investments fell short of expectations,
particularly in those investments where IFI has felt obliged as a public
sector institution to enter into politically motivated investments. IFI has
also taken over ownership or management of parastatal enterprises that have
performed poorly, keeping uneconomic enterprises in operation through repeated
refinancing. This has slowed or prevented the exit of unprofitable public
enterprises and has led to a drain on IFI's resources. In some cases in which
other investors have failed to provide their share of investment costs, or
where there have been cost overruns or large operating losses, IFI has been
forced to step in to provide additional resources.
39.       It has become clear to the Government and IFI that a comprehensive
restructuring and reorientation of IFI is needed, including financial
restructuring, portfolio divestiture, restructuring and privatization of
problematic parastatal enterprises, and internal reorganization of the
institution. The design and implementation of these changes, which are
supported by the proposed Project, are outlined in Section III of this report.
The present section provides perspective by describing the current (pre-
reform) structure of IFI, its traditional investment and credit policies, and
its financial situation leading into the Project.
B. Organizational Structure
40.       IFI is legally constituted as a Corporacion Financiera, like the 23
other CFs operating in Colombia (para. 13). It is a decentralized Government
agency under the Ministry of Economic Development, has its own capital and has
administrative autonomy from the Government. IFI's shares are 98.8% owned by
Treasury, the remainder being held by PROEXPO, BR and BCH. IFI's Board of
Directors is chaired by the Minister of Economic Development and also composed
by the Minister of Finance, the General Managers of BR and BCH and a
representative of the Private Sector nominated by the President of the
Republic.



- 12 -
41.       IFI is organized along traditional functional lines (see the
organization chart in Annex II). The institution is headed by a General
Manager, whose four department heads are responsible for Finance, Credit,
Projects and Investments, and Administration. In addition to the line
departments, there are offices of the Internal Auditor, Legal Advisor, Advisor
for Special Matters and Secretary.
42.       Professional and technical staff are well paid, but department heads
are paid somewhat less than their counterparts in other financial sector
institutions. Staff are recruited externally by means of a rigorous
examination and interview process. Staff turnover has been quite low for some
years, and most employees have been with IFI for ten years or more. Overall,
the professional and technical staff are competent. However, there is a
shortage of qualified staff to handle portfolio valuation, divestiture, and
marketing and customer service activities.
C. Investments
43.       At the end of 1990, IFI owned equity in 29 operating enterprises
(excluding Concesion Salinas, which is managed but not owned by IFI) in the
industrial, agroindustrial, mining, and financial sectors. The value of IFI's
investments in these enterprises was Col$74.2 billion, amounting to 9.3% of
their capital; total assets of these enterprises were Col$1,983 billion. In
addition, IFI had an investment of Col$463 million in six regional development
institutions (Promotoras Regionales de Desarrollo). IFI's investments account
for a significant proportion of production in several industries: 100% in
nickel, caustic soda, chlorine, refined salt, and caprolactam; 80% in ship
repairing; 75% in compound fertilizers and telephone instruments; and 65% in
coal.
44.       IFI's portfolio contains investments with diverse characteristics in
terms of age, size, degree of participation by IFI, and objectives. A large
share of the portfolio is concentrated in a few large projects, putting the
portfolio at greater risk. In 1990, three firms accounted for almost 81% of
IFI's investment portfolio: Propal (37.2%), Cerro Matoso (23.4%), and
Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento (20.5%). A significant part of the portfolio is
committed to mature projects where political considerations have made exit
more difficult (e.g., Conastil, Alcalis de Colombia, Nitroven). In these
investments, IFI acts more as a holding company than a promoter of
investments. In other more recent projects (e.g., Texpinal, Frigopesca), IFI
has acted more as an investment promoter and provider of risk capital,
although without a clear exit strategy.
D. Credit
45.       Volume.  As a CF, IFI lends short-, medium-, and long-term credit to
industrial enterprises. Credit is provided via (a) domestic currency credit
lines, the majority of which have been funded by earmarked public sector
resources; (b) industrial development credit rediscounted through BR and
export-related credit from PROEXPO; and (c) foreign currency loans funded by
external official and private sources. Annex III, Table I shows the volume of



- 13 -
credit granted during 1984-90. In 1988-90, credit approvals totaled Col$137
billion (approximately US$360 million). 1?)C shows a decline compared to the
US$120 million annual average. This slowdown was caused by the change in the
entire institution's management. As IFI's earmarked resources are being
phased out, the proportion of credit in foreign exchange has increased,
becoming the majority (52% in 1990) of approvals. Bono de Valor Constante
(BVC)-financed credit represented only 1.4% of credit in 1990, while it
accounted for 60% of credit in 1988. A variable, but occasionally
significant, proportion of credit approvals has been for refinancing or
extensions of existing loans (Annex III, Table 3).
46.       Segmentation of credit lines.  Traditionally, IPI has not "pooled"
funds from different sources and set terms according to its average cost of
caDital and characteristics of the loan and borrower; rather, there have been
a variety of credit lines, each with its own terms, based either on the cost
of funds from that particular source or other criteria. For example, the most
important domestic currency credit lines included the Bonod de Fomento
Industrial (BFI) line, funded by bonds purchased by multinational corporations
to increase their allowable dividend remittances; the Bonos de Valor Constants
(BVC) line, funded by the resources of the Social Security Institute; the Law
68/83 credit line funded by IFI's earmarked share of tariff surcharges; and
the Fondo Automotriz credit line for auto parts producers, funded by an import
duty on CRDs for auto assembly. In the past, each of these lines carried
different terms, and some were targeted to particular users.
47.       In addition, IFI is required to lend 7% of its resources to
Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), a CF specialized in small- and micro-
enterprise lending. This mandatory lending was established under the
Government rationale that IFI had to contribute to microenterprise financing,
and that CFP was better suited to carry out that lending than IFI itself doing
it directly.
48.       IFI's future credit policies under its new strategy (Section III.B)
will eliminate its historical segmentation of credit lines as well as its use
of earmarked public sources of funds. In the future, IFI will "pool"
resources for its credit operations, charging a pooled interest rate for
working capital and investment financing. These rates will be based on IFI's
average cost of capital, intermediation costs, and characteristics of the
individual loan and borrower. IPI will replace its earmarked sources of funds
(BVCs, Law 68/83 and Fondo Automotriz) with resources mobilized from domestic
and external markets as well as greater use of BR rediscount facilities (para.
75).
49.       Pricing.  Interest rates on IFI's BVC line have been approved by the
Junta Monetaria; all other terms on IFI direct credit lines are determined by
IFI's own Board of Directors. Historically, it has been IPI's policy to lend
at rates somewhat below market, and until 1988, interest rates on most IFI
lines of credit were fixed in nominal terms. More recently, it has been IFI's
policy to make interest rates variable (linked to the DTF rate) and move them
closer to market levels. Annex III, Figure 1 shows trends in interest rates
on IFI credit with comparisons to commercial (CF) lending rates. In October
1988, interest rates on the BVC line, previously fixed at 27-29%, were changed



- 14 -
to a variable rate expressed as DTF plus a margin, such that the rate would be
equal to the consumer price index plus the coat of BVC funds (CPI + 5.5%) and
a 3% commiesion for IFI. More recently, interest rates on the other main IFI
lines (Law 68/83 and Fondo Automotriz) hav'e been raised to approximately DTF +
4.5-5.0%. Credit denominated in foreign currency is priced according to
market rates.
50.       BR industrial development credit lines intermediated by IFI (FFI,
FIP, and FCE) and the PROEXPO line all carry interest rates linked to DTF
(with a fixed margin for IFI). In November 1990, interest rates to final
borrowers of BR industrial development credit were 43.1% to 47.9% in annual
effective terms (except for loans to border areas), equivalent to 97-108X of
commercial lending rates. PROEXPO rates were 41.6% (94% of market) for pre-
and post-shipment financing, and 35.6% to 43.1% (80-97% of market) for
investment financing, depending upon the size of the borrower.
51.       Under its new credit policies, IFI will continue to charge variable
(DTF-linked) interest rates and maintain lending rates at market levels.
Interest rates on individual loans will rise with the maturity of the loan.
IFI's competition with private CFs will be based on credit maturities,
efficient approval and disbursement procedures, and financial services
tailored to client needs.
52.       Distribution of credit.  Historically, as has been the case with its
investment portfolio, a large share of IFI's credit has been concentrated in a
few large scale firms. This was partly due to the fact that IFI has
traditionally provided credit to firms in which it had equity participation,
many of which were large scale enterprises. In some cases, loans to firms
majority owned by IFI were made in spite of their weak financial condition or
poor prospects. In May 1989, 46% of IFI's credit portfolio represented loans
to firms in which IFI had equity participation. Of this 46%, fifteen firms
accounted for 98% of the credit portfolio, implying a high level of risk for
IFI given that IFI was also a shareholder in these firms. The total credit
portfolio has been somewhat less concentrated: In May 1989, of a total of 340
firms, 81 accounted for 71% of the portfolio.
53.       IFI has also lent to a large number of small-scale enterprises,
though thay accounted for a small proportion of its lending volume. In 1988,
100 of the 340 firms in IFI's credit portfolio, each having total assets less
than Col$2 million, accounted for 9.4% of the credit outstanding. Thus, just
as with its investments, IFI's credit operations have not served a large
number of medium-scale firms. The historical distribution of credit among a
few large scale firms on the one hand, and many small firms on the other, also
suggests that IFI has not had a clear lending strategy.
54.       In the future, according to its new credit policies and marketing
strategy, IFI will target the market segment of medium-scale firms (defined as
firms with total assets between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$25
million). IFI intends to avoid lending to firms in which it has equity
participation.



- 15 -
55.       Lending criteria and procedures.  Approval procedures for IYI credit
have been based on a study of the payment capacity and cash flow of the
potential borrower, an evaluation of the project, and the borrower's
collateral. In evaluating a project, the credit department looks at market
analysis and whether or not the project will benefit the firm. In general,
however, the evaluation does not involve the use of shadow prices, nor an
evaluation of the technology employed by the firm. In addition, delays in the
approval process have been significant. In a sample of 20 previous credit
approvals, the process of documentation and approval took more than five
months.
56.       In the future, IFI intends to place more emphasis on economic and
financial project evaluation in making credit decisions.. The proposed Project
includes technical assistance and training (para. 84) to improve IFI's project
evaluation capabilities. In addition, approval and disbursement procedures
will be streamlined and systematized to reduce delays.
E. Sources of Funds
57.       IFI has financed its operations from the following principal
sources:
(a)  Bonds
(i)   Bonos de Valor Constante (BVCs):  IFI has received 35% of the
proceeds of BVC bonds: 25-year bonds bearing interest at the
consumer price index plus 5.5% p.a. which are purchased by the
Social Security System.
(ii)  Bonos de Fomento Industrial (BFIs):  IFI has received the proceeds
of five year bonds bearing interest at 20% p.a. purchased by
multinationals in order to increase their available dividends
remittances.
(b)  Rediscount lines of credit of BR and PROEXPO
(i)   Fondo Financiero Industrial, providing working capital and
investment financing for small- and medium-scale enterprises.
(ii)  Fond  para Inversiones Privadas, providing working capital and
investment financing for larger enterprises.
(iii) Fondo de Capitalizaci6n Empresarial, for enterprise
capitalization.
(iv)  PROEXPO, for pre-shipment, post-shipment, and investment financing
for exporters.
tc)  Foreign Currency Credit Lines
Mi)   Letter of credit operations.



- 16 -
(ii)  Official and private foreign bank credit lines to finance
equipment imports.
(d)  Certificates of Devosit:  IFI has begun recently to issue its own short
term certificates of deposit in the market.
(e)  Bonds:  Gradually developing as a source of funds, their maturities
range from two to five years.
(f)  Government Equity Contributions:  Subscribed capital aid earmarked funds
such as:
(i)   Law 68 of 1983 provides IFI with 20% of a 22 surcharge on imports.
(ii)  Fondo Automotriz provides IFI with 3% of the FOB value of imported
CKDs.
58.      As can be seen from Table II.1. below, the principal sources of funds
to finance IFI's operations have been BVCs, foreign banks (mainly letter of
credit operations and financing of foreign equipment imports), and equity. In
recent years, capital contributions have come mainly from earmarked funds from
a surcharge on imports and a tax on the value of CKDs.
Table II.1: Sources of Funds (December 31. 1989)
golSd bil.     US$ mil.          %
Deposits                                7.1           16.4            3.1
Bonds                                   4.8           11.1            2.1
Central Bank and PROEXPO Credit
Lines                            3.7             8.5            1.6
Foreign Banks                          32.0           73.7           13.8
Bonos de Valor Constante (BVC)        102.7          236.7           44.4
Other Borrowings and liabilities        9.4           21.7            4.1
Equity                                 71.8          165.5           31.0
TOTAL                                 231.5          533.4           100.0
F. IFI's Financial Condition
59.     IFI's assets as of December 31, 1990 consist mainly of its investment
and loan portfolios valued at US$131.1 and US$208.8 million respectively
(Annex VI, Table 1). Equity investments are valued at their net book value in
the company in which the investment is made, as most investments are not
publicly traded shares. Accordingly, there are potential unrealized gains on
investments currently being divested by IFI. With respect to the loan
portfolio, IFI follows the rules established by the Banking Superintendency



- 17 -
for portfolio evaluation and provisioning for doubtful accounts which were
recently strengthened. Provisions for doubtful accounts have been largely
adequate in recent years, and no special write-offs have been required except
in 1987 when the Government assumed Cerro Matoso's debts to IFI.
60.     The other important category of assets of IFI was "deferred and other
assets", totalling US$138.7 million at the end of 1990. Of this amount,
US$121.9 million (net of US$73.2 million already provisioned, equivalent to a
total of US$195.1 million) represented amounts due from the Government and IFI
for accumulated losses of the BVC Fund managed by IFI. The Fund is financed
by BVC Bonds which are 25 year bonds bearing interest at the rate of increase
in the consumer price index plus 5.5%. For managing the Fund, IFI earns a
spread of 3% p.a., which is passed on to borrowers of BVC resources. The cost
of BVC funds has been variable and very high while for years IFI lending rates
for these resources were constrained by Government policy. For this and
others reasons, the BVC Fund accumulated a very large deficit over the years.
At the end of 1990, assets of the BVC Fund (cash, investments and loans)
amounted to US$37.5 million, while liabilities totalled US$232.7 million,
leaving a deficit in the Fund of the above-mentioned US$195.1 million.
61.     Because of the high cost of BVC resources, IFI has decided that their
use is not appropriate for long term financing of industrial investments, nor
consistent with IFI's new strategy of intermediating financial resources
obtained in domestic and foreign markets. IFI therefore has phased out the
use of these earmarked Government funds.  In addition, IFI and the Government
have agreed on an appropriate sharing of the responsibilities for the
accumulated BVC deficit.
62.     As this issue is of primary importance to the overall financial
soundness of IFI, the proposed project has been conditional upon adequate and
complete resolution of this problem (paras. 80 and 112). A major step in that
direction was achieved in December 1990 by the passage of legislation that
establishes the framework for solving the existing deficit problem and
terminates IFI's role in managing the BVC Fund, making it an independent and
self-generating fund. The new structure of the Fund includes safeguards (such
as mandating that resources only be used for investments having an expected
return higher that the cost of funds of the Fund) to avoid repetition of the
deficit problem in the future.
G. Earnings
63.     IPI's income statements for the years 1985 through 1990 are given in
Annex VI, Table 2 in millions of U.S. dollar equivalents. For the 1985-1989
period, IFI basically broke even on its operations, except in 1985 when it had
a loss of about US$8 million and in 1990 where it had a loss as a result of
covering the major part of its share in the BVC deficit. Only recently has
IFI taken a more aggressive attitude in order to improve earnings, by raising
interest rates on loans to market levels, increasing its commission earning
business such as letter of credit operations, and restructuring and selling
its investment portfolio. As part of its new strategy, IFI intends to
generate sufficient earnings and dividends payments to attract both market



- 18 -
sources of funds and private investment, which will subsequently allow IFI to
attract significant private participation in its capital.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives
64.     The objectives of the IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project are:
(i) to implement a divestiture and privatization program of IFI's existing
equity holdings, including the development and implementation of individual
restructuring and divestiture plans; and (ii) to support the implementation of
a new corporate strategy for IPI which will reorient its role in industrial
and financial sector development by transforming it into a more efficient
financial institution that can compete on an equal basis in the financial
markets -- in the process enhancing competition in such markets and filling
gaps in financial services needed to support investments consistent with the
liberalization of the economy. Achievement of these two objectives would pave
the way for the eventual privatization of IFI itself, for which a specific
plan would be drawn up under the project. Moreover, the project would set
strict financial performance criteria (e.g. portfolio diversification,
exposure limits, operational efficiency, profitability) in order to guide IFI
through the transition period in reaching this ultimate objective.
65.     The project addresses the financing needs of the Government's recently
announced trade reform and industrial restructuring program, by assisting IFI
in providing financial services and instruments that are currently
underprovided in the market and promoting capital market development through
its catalytic impact. IFI's operations in financial markets will be
consistent with the general direction of financial policy reforms to increase
competition and reduce distortions in the financial sector, as recently agreed
in the Financial Policy Framework (para. 26). Finally, the objectives of the
project support the Government's broader objective of reducing and
rationalizing public sector intervention, through IFI's divestiture program
and the eventual privatization of part or all of IFI.
B. IFI's New Strategy and Policies
66.     During Project preparation, IFI hired the consulting firm of Booz,
Allen, and Hamilton, Inc. to evaluate IFI's current objectives and operations,
and to propose a strategic plan for IPI in the future, consistent with the
Government's industrial and financial development policies. Bank staff
participated in all phases of the study, including discussions of the
consultants' recommendations. After completion of the study, IFI hired local
consultants to review the conclusions and strengthen the implementation plan.
The new strategy was subsequently approved by IFI's Board of Directors. A
Policy Letter outlining IFI's role, strategy, and policies is attached as
Annex I. This Policy Letter, which has been approved by IFI's Board chaired
by the Minister of Economic Development, forms the basis for the current
Project.



- 19 -
67.     The basic objectives for a restructured IPI are:  (a) to finance
industrial sector development; (b) to promote financial sector development;
(c) to operate under financial performance criteria equivalent to those of
privately owned financial institutions; and (d) ultimately, as these
objectives are met, to privatize part or all of IFI itself. IFI's strategic
plan for its future operations addresses the financing needs of the trade
reform and industrial restructuring program. It targets as a market niche the
provision of financial services and instruments that are currently
underprovided in the market. Below are summarized the main elements of IFI's
role, strategies, and policies as detailed in the Policy Letter.
68.     IFI's role in industrial develonment.  The reorientation of IFI's
operations must be placed within the framework of the trade reform program
recently initiated by the Government as an element of the P ogram& ara la
Mdernizacion de la Economia Colombiana. The reallocation of productive
resources expected as a result of the trade reform program will require a more
efficient allocation of financial resoutces to sectors in which Colombia
enjoys a comparative advantage. The program creates the need for financing
neT- firms, products, and technologies, as well as for the restructuring of
existing enterprises, inx order to modernize production techniques and improve
international competitiveness. The need for financing is especially acute for
medium scale enterprises, as this market segment currently receives a
disproportionately low share of credit relative to its production and needs.
The new trade policy regime also implies greater levels of risk associated
with international markets for financial institutions. On the other hand, the
ability of private financial markets to meet these needs -- particularly in
the areas of long term credit and non-debt instruments -- is insufficiently
developed.
69.     IFI's new strategy is designed to facilitate the supply response to
the trade reform by both new and existing industrial enterprises. Priority
will be given to financing new firms, products, markets, and/or technologies.
IF. will initially target the market segment of medium scale enterprises,
allocating credit o.; the basis of economic and financial project evaluation
and the cash flow prospects of the enterprise and project.
70.     IFI's role as a financial institution.  In contrast to its historical
emphasis on large investments in industrial enterprises followed bv credit
support, in the future IFI will act mainly as a first tier credit institution,
limiting direct investments to venture and seed capital, with a clear exit
strategy. IFI's operations will therefore become more focused and of more
modest scope than in the past. While IFI will concentrate on providing long
term credit, it will provide integrated financial support to industrial
enterprises, providing an array of financial instruments and developing
packhaes of financial instruments and cofinancing arrangements with private
inst.tutions for individual projects. IFI's financial services will include
assiotance to determine optimal financial structures, the provision of loans
directly or through loan syndication with other intermediaries, assistance to
find and coordinate the provision of complementary sources of financing, and
takinig temporary equity positions via minority share participation for the
provision of seed/venture capital. The new strategy also attempts to increase



- 20 -
the efficiericy of IFI as a financial institution, e.g., via quick and
efficient credit approval and disbur- .,ment procedures.
71.     IFI's role in financial sector develoDment.  As part of its strategy
to use the transition period to establish a niche in the market for its
potential future role as a privatized financial institution, IFI will attempt
to position itself to address identified gaps in the services provided by the
private financial system, by:
*       aggressive marketing efforts and a focus on individual client service;
*       increasing the participation of other financial institutions, both
domestic and foreign, by organizing and participating in loan
syndication of project finance packages; and
*       promoting capital market development by venture capital operations
with a clear exit strategy, use of innovative financial instruments
(e.g. quasi-equity), and increased use of medium-term securities both
for IFI's own financing (para. 76) and for underwriting of third
parties.
Through these strategies, IFI is also expected to promote more active
competition in the financial system in respect of project financing and
capital markets.
72.     Credit Policies.  IFI will initially focus its loan financing on the
market segment of medium scale enterprises (currently estimated as firms with
total assets between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$25 million). In
addition, within its financial capabilities, it will finance and prepare
financial packages for large scale enterprises.
73.     IFI will "pool" by currency its various sources of funds for credit
operations and will charge interest sufficient to cover or exceed its average
cost of funds. IFI's interest rates will be maintained at comnercial market
rates, i.e., DTF or PRIME or LIBOR plus a spread adequate to cover
intermediation costs, maturity, risk, and a normal profit. IFI will mainly
provide medium and long term credit, as required by the financing needs of the
project. IFI will limit its credit exposure to any individual client to ten
percent of IFI's equity. C.edit evaluation will be based on the project's
economic and financial viability and the cash flow prospects of the enterprise
and project, supplemented by appropriate collateral. IFI will offer both
local and foreign-currency denominated loans according to the financing needs
of individual projects, and will continue to build its letter of credit
operations.
74.     Investment policies.  In accordance with its new strategy, IFI will
make equity investments in order to promote industrial development, by playing
a catalytic role in the creation of new projects. IFI's equity investments
will mainly consist of seed/venture capital, which is a largely underprovided
financial service. The investment policies will be the following:



- 21 -
*       an adequate financial rate of return;
*       exposure limits of no more than ten percent of IFI's equity and no
more than thirty percent of the total equity of the enterprise;
*       such investments will require a clear definition of IFI's exit
strategy, the maximum time span of IFI's investment holdings being
five years of less;
*       strong consideration will be given to quasi-equity instruments, such
as convertible debentures or subordinated debt with warrants, such
that IFI will receive a return on its investment and have the
opportunity to benefit from their conversion privileges;
the total of IPI's new investments will be limited to a pool of funds.
The pool would initially be the peso equivalent of US$35 million, and
its future size would be determined by the success overtime of these
investments; and
*       priority will be given to projects involving exports, new products,
markets, or technologies, as well as syndication and the attraction of
foreign direct investment. Nonetheless, the decision for an
investment will be determined, essentially, by the economic and
financial feasibility of the project.
75.     Sources of funds.  The implementation of IFI's strategy will include
replacement of earmarked Government sources of funds with resources mobilized
from domestic and external markets. These will include term deposits, credit
lines rediscounted througb BR, direct investment through capital markets,
bonds, external commerc'a  b-aks, and bilateral institutions.  Multilateral
sources will be considered a transitional source of funds. Under the proposed
project, IFI has already made significant headway in this respect. IFI has
recently suspended new financing from BVC resources, and also terminated, as
of December 1990, the earmarking of Law 68/1983 resources. Funding from Bonos
de Fomento Industrial is disappearing automatically as multinationals have
been allowed alternative dividend remittance mechanisms, and would be
completely eliminated by end-1992. Fondo Automotriz funding is in principle
scheduled to last until end-1998. As this would be inconsistent with IPI's
new strategy of operating in equivalent conditions to a privately-owned
financial institution, it was agreed at negotiations to phase out this
earmarked funding of IFI by end-1992.
76.     IFI will develop an aggressive strategy of capturing term resources
from the market through issuance of medium term securities such as bonds,
multi-year certificates of deposit and hybrid instruments with option-like
features. To be consistent with the suppression of IFI's earmarked sources of
funds, the Government would also phase out IFI's earmarked uses of funds,
namely, its mandatory lending to CFP (para. 47). This forced lending would
also be eliminated by December 31, 1992.



22 -
77.     F  ncal pefomance cariteria., IFI's general financial objective
will be to generate sufficient earnings and dividend payments to attract both
market sources of funds and private investment, which will eventually allow
IFI to attract significant private participation in IFI's capital structure.
IFI has developed a concise financial strategy covering the following areas:
profitability, liquidity, portfolio management, leverage, and dividend payout
policy.
78.     Privatizat    of IFI.  IFI's strategy justifies its role as a public
sector financial institution during a period of transition, based on two
considerations. First, the increased financing needs of the real sector under
the Government's trade reform and industrial restructuring programs, and the
existing deficiencies in private financial markets (paras. 12 to 22) require
an institution like IFI to act as catalyst for the development and
strengthening of finiancial markets, by providing fair competition in
activities that could be replicated by the private sector. Second, from the
point of view of IFI itself, there is a need for a transitional period of
institutional and financial restructuring before privatization of part or all
of IFI is feasible. Therefore, the project calls for a strategy of having IFI
help fill the gap of investors' needs for long-term credit, venture capital
and modern financial services by providing financial instruments that are
currently underprovided, acting as a promoter for increased private sector
participation in these services and instruments (e.g. through syndications and
financial engineering packages for large, lumpy investments), and concurrently
having IFI lay the groundwork for its own privatization through divestiture of
its investment portfolio, resolution of the BVC liability problem, removal of
earmarked uses and sources of funds and overhaul of its operating policies and
institutional structure.
79.     Once this simultaneous strategy is under way and its preliminary
results can be evaluated, the Government would study the alternative options
that would be available to privatize IFI. To this effect, by the project mid-
term review, the Government would conduct a strategic analysis of IFI and its
ownership structure and, based on this analysis, would define a program of
privatization of the capital and the operation of IFI. The strategic analysis
would be carried out by a specialized qualified institution (e.g.
internationally recognized investment or merchant bank) whose services would
be financed from the technical assistance component of the project. Draft
Terms of Reference (Annex IX) for this strategic study have been agreed at
negotiations.
C. Financial and Institutional Restructuring of IFI
80.     Resolution of Bonos de Valor Constante Deficit.  The origin and extent
of the Bonos de Valor Constante (BVC) deficit problem are explained in detail
in paras. 60 - 62. The resources from this source are not appropriate for
project finance, having a very high real cost above the inflation rate in
Colombia. This high cost has been a principal reason for the development of
the deficit in the BVC Fund. In connection with the proposed loan, IFI and
the Government reached in December 1990 an agreement on IFI's share in the
accumulated deficit in the BVC Fund, which IFI subsequently settled by a
transfer of shares of its equity investments and other securities it held, to



23 -
a BVC trust fund. In addition, the existing remaining assets of the BVC Fund
(mainly loans to enterprises) were transferred to IFI which in turn issued an
eight-year debenture for the same amount and transferred it to the new
independent BVC Fund as payment. In order to assure that the BVC problem was
resolved and that IFI maintained a sound financial condition, the proposed
loan was conditional on satisfactory implementation of the above mentioned
transfers and signature of the necessary contract between the Government and
IFI.
81.     Policies and Procedures.  The new policies of IFI are spelled out in
the IFI Policy Letter (Annex I). New procedures are being implemented with
respect to IFI's target market, investment and loan approval limits of various
organizational levels, financial instruments and services to be offered,
pricing strategies (i.e., commissions, service charges, fees, etc.),
investment and divestiture policy, evaluation criteria, financial objectives,
personnel policies, etc. A technical assistance component is included in the
proposed loan to finance external consultants as necessary to assist in the
implementation of the new policies, procedures, and control systems.
82.     Organizational Structure.  Hitherto, IFI has been organized along
functional lines, having departments dealing with finance, credit,
investments, and administration. However, this type of organization does not
respond to the needs of IFI's new strategy and planned target market, which
would be better served by individual account managers who would be channels
for providing all of IFI's services including loans, equity finance, letters
of credit, corporate financial services, cofinancing arrangements, etc. A new
organizational structure has been developed on the basis of products and
services that IPI will be providing (Annex II). Under IFI's president, there
will be five vice presidents responsible for (i) marketing of financial
services (with account executives and promoters); (ii) finance, domestic and
foreign borrowing, budgeting, accounting and systems, and financial deals and
transactions (such as syndications); (iii) operations (portfolio management,
letters of credit processing, trust fund management, investments); (iv) credit
(credit analysis and control) and (v) administration (human resources, general
services).
83.     Staffing (Retrenchment. Recruitment, Training).   A careful review of
IFI's staffing needs and requirements based on irs new corporate strategy and
objectives has been carried out. Taking into account the institution's ne-4
orientation (customer and market oriented, new market developer, etc.),
organizational structure, and performance and efficiency criteria, a
comprehensive new staffing plan was developed. This plan calls for
substantial changes, which are being and will continue to be implemented
through a combination of staff reduction, old staff being replaced by new
staff bringiag the necessary new skills, and a comprehensive training program
for staff at all levels to match the skills of existing staff to the new job
descriptions.
84.     Of the 377 positions that IFI had in August 1990, 124 were abolished
during the restructuring in early 1991. 69 new positions were created,
resulting in a net staff reduction of 55 positions (15% of total). Because of



- 24 -
the relatively long average employment time of IFI staff, and the cesantias
(severance payment) rules existing in Colombia, these layoffs had a
significant short-term cost, which will be more than compensated by the long-
term payroll savings and operationial efficiency. The IPI reorganization will
require a substantial program of training of IFI management and staff (Annex
VIII). This program includes ad hoc courses in specific subjects in legal,
financial, commercial, administrative, information systems and other topics
(including financial and environmental assessment analysis of investments), ae
well as scholarships for programs of studies at local universities. The ad
hoc course program over the four-year period is equivalent to an average of
8.8 days of training per staff per year. A technical assistance component
would be included in the proposed loan to finance, inter alia, such a training
program.
85.      Xste_ms.  Over the years, IFI has purchased computer equipment and
developed some computer-based management information systems (MIS). However,
the new strategy of IFI will require a modern management information system to
analyze complex investment proposals, prepare financial and economic forecasts
for project appraisal, do sensitivity analysis, etc. IFI staff, with the
assistance of external consultants, have developed an MIS long-term
development plan. This plan calls for the upgrading of existing systems and
the development of new ones. The technical assistance component of the
proposed loan would finance the design and implementation of management
information and related systems, including hardware, software and software
development, and a new library and records management system.
D.  The Divestiture o   I's Portfolio
86.     In accordance with IFI's new corporate strategy, the institution will
make equity investments as a promoter of new industrial ventures and will no
longer operate as the industrial holding company of the State. This new
strategy has two major consequences. On one aide, new and radically different
inivestment policies will guide the decision-making process related to future
new investments (para. 74). Or. the other side, IFI started this new phase of
its corporate existence with a stock of investments which are the product of
different past investment strategies, and which do not conform to IFI's new
investment policies. Thus, an ad-hoc strAtegy was developed to deal with this
existing stock of investments, based on an indiridual analysis of each of
them.
87.     This strategy, which is in accordance with the overall policy of
public sector's withdrawal from productive sector activities, leads to the
divestiture by IFI of all these existing investments, as they do not fit in
the new IPI concept. This divestiture strategy, originally launched in 1988,
is described in detail in the following sections.
(a) The 1988-91 Divestiture Plan
88.     In 1988, the Government, through the Ministry of Economic Development
and the National Economic and Social Policy Council (CONPES), decided to
restructure IFI's investment portfolio through the recommended divestiture of



- 25 -
a significant number of enterprises. Based on the CONPES plan, IFI's Board of
Directors approved a divestiture and privatization plan for the divestiture of
IFI's portfolio holdings in 21 enterprises during the three year period
1989-1991.
89.     By the end of 1990, IFI had sold its interest in 13 enterprises (Annex
IV, Table 1). The divestiture program slowly gathered momentum, achieving one
enterprise in 1988, four in 1989 and eight in 1990. Some of this momentum was
lost with the management restructuring of end-1990. Its impact was felt
during the first half of 1991, in which the divestiture process was somewhat
on hold.  It has subsequen.ly resumed at full momentum, and is expected to
yield significant additional results for the remainder of 1991 and subsequent
years (para. 98). Equity holdings sold during the 1988-90 period represent a
sales value of Col$5.9 billion plus US$48 million for the sale of Sofasa, a
car assembly firm, to Renault to be paid over a ten-year period. In addition,
IFI recently completed the sale of Papelcol, an unfinished pulp and paper
mill, for a combination of cash, debt securities and equity, whose present
value is estimated by IFI's investment advisors at between US$95 and US$106
million (see paras. 107 to 114 for a fuller discussion of Papelcol and the use
of these proceeds). The divestiture program has, therefore, proceeded well,
and will be broader in scope than originally envisaged.
90.     In addition to the 13 equity holdings sold, IFI is also in the process
of liquidating investments that have not proven to be viable. As of the end
of 1990, IFI was in the process of liquidating 8 holdings with a nominal
investment value of Col$392 million; two other liquidations were completed
during 1989 (Annex IV, Table 2). Liquidation or write-off of investments will
continue to be options for future divestiture of unviable equity holdings in
IFI's portfolio.
(b) Valuation and method of sale
91.     IFI's divestiture program has raised several critical issues.  One
such issue is the valuation methodology, particularly for the larger, more
complex divestitures, to arrive at a reasonable sales valuation or valuation
range. A second issue is the method of sale, for which there are several
alternatives open to IFI, depending on the prior contractual rights of
existing shareholders of the enterprises to be divested. Some of these
methods are, inter alia, the following: direct negotiation with existing
shareholders based on a prior first preference, as was the case for Sofasa, or
for holdings where IFI has a very small percentage of the enterprise; public
offering on the stock exchange where the enterprise is already listed, as in
the case of Texpinal; public offering on the stock exchange when the company
has had no prior listing; public auction not on a listed exchange, when, for
example, there are more than 100 existing shareholders, as is the case of
Ingenio Risaralda.
92.     The valuation issue and the method of sale raise four major questions:
(i) how to assure that there is a transparent process of divestiture; (ii) how
to avoid increasing industrial concentration or what the Ministry of
Development has termed share democratization; (iii) how to attract direct
foreign investors, when they could be of assistance in terms of technology or



- 26 -
market access to these firms, for example the case of Sofasa; and (iv) how to
support the process of capital market deepening and development by public
flotation or through the issue of diverse financial instruments as part of the
divestiture process.
93.     The Project would provide technical assistance to IFI for consultants
and investment banking services to assist in the divestiture program. IFI has
already retained investment bankers for two large cases, Papelcol and
Conastil, and this will be necessary in several other divestitures.
(c) The 1991-94 Divestiture Program
94.     In connection with the proposed loan, and based on the strategy
mentioned above, IFI and the Government have agreed on a new divestiture
program, covering the period 1991-94. This program expands the scope of the
old one and tackles in an exhaustive manner the issue of the existing stock of
IFI's investments, as it deals with all remaining holdings as of December 31,
1990. The new program implies that by end-1994, IFI would have divested
itself of all the 29 equity holdings that it owned as of end-1990.
95.     The program first calls for dividing IFI's investments in two main
categories: (i) small companies, or larger companies in which IFI has a very
small ownership participation percentage; and (ii) large investments and/or
investments with special characteristics. The second group is constituted by
Alcalis, Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento (CAF), Mon6meros, Cerro Matoso and
Propal. The first group is thus comprised by the remaining 24 companies in
IFI's equity portfolio (Annex IV, Tables 3 and 4).
96.     IFI and the Government alao have agreed to establish a Trust Fund
account, which would be the legal entity receiving IFI's investments for which
the privatization or liquidation process could not be completed by a date
consistent with IFI's new corporate strategy and divestiture plan. This Trust
Fund, independent from IFI, would assume the role of a Government holding
entity that IFI has had historically. This would allow IFI to become a
regular financial intermediary institution, without the distortions implied by
simultaneously being a state holding company.
97.     The goals of the i991-94 Divestiture Plan are differentiated for the
two groups of companies mentioned above. For the 5 special cases, individual
divestiture processes and targets have been defined and agreed (para. 99).
For the other 24 investments, goals have been defined in terms of annual
divestiture targets for the whole group. The divestiture of these latter 24
holdings would ideally be carried out by privatization of IPI's shares. Since
a few of these companies may have an uncertain future, it is likely that for
some of them liquidation may be the preferred exit option. In case neither of
these two courses of action, or any alternative option that would lead to the
same result, were possible, IFI would divest itself from those companies by
completely writing-off its investment. This may be the case for unviable
companies in which IFI does not have the necessary control level to force the
company into liquidation.



- 27 -
98.     Based on considerations of institutional capacity, maturity of the
investments, and market absorptive capacity, annual minimum divestiture
targets have been agreed upon for this group of 24 companies. To provide the
flexibility needed to deal with unexpected developments which may delay
certain privatizations but permit to advance the divestiture of other
companies, IFI would commit itself to annual targets in terms of number of
enterprises divested. This would avoid the problems often encountered in
large divestiture programs caused by having targets tied to specific
individual enterprises. IFI would divest 7 enterprises in 1991, 6 enterprises
in both 1992 and 1993, and 5 enterprises in 1993. Performance targets would
be established on a cumulative basis, requiring 7 by end-1991, 13 by end-1992,
19 by end-1993 and 24 by end-1994.
E. Restructuring and Divestiture of Special Companies
99.     In connection with the proposed loan, a specific
restructuring/divestiture strategy has been defined for 5 enterprises in IFI's
investment portfolio. A specific action program has also been defined for a
sixth enterprise, Concesi6n Salinas, which although not owned by IFI, is also
included in this group since it is managed by IFI on behalf of the Government.
For both Alcalis and Concesin Salinas, IFI has overall responsibility for the
operations of the companies. In three other cases -- Propal, Cerro Matoso and
Monomeros -- IFI has a large equity interest in the enterprises, but no
management responsibility for their performance. Each of these three
enterprises is undergoing significant restructuring/expansion at present.
Finally, IFI has an equity investment in CAF, an international financial
institution that operates as a regional development bank. More detailed
information on the background and restructuring of these enterprises is
provided in Annex V.
(a) Alcalis
100.    This chemical company is the most problematic of IFI's investments.
It manufactures a wide range of chlor-alkali products largely for industrial
usages, as well as chlorine for municipal water systems. The company also
refines salt for Concesion Salinas. Its operations are conducted at two
plants -- Betania and Cartagena - while its administrative offices are in
Bogota. Alcalis' plants are old and have been poorly maintained. Operations
are inefficient, and the company had to go into concordato (equivalent to US
Chapter 11 proceedings) in 1986. In addition, Alcalis presents significant
labor and environmental problems. Due to historical labor militancy and weak
public sector management, labor costs have escalated over the years to an
unsustainable level that financially asphyxiate the company. The obsolete
technology and the inadequate maintenance of Alcalis' plants have together
lead to serious industrial pollution, especially discharge of pollutants into
the Bogot& river and particulate emissions into the air.
101.    In order to determine its future direction, in 1990 IFI, Alcalis and
the Bank agreed to have Arthur D. Little International carry out a strategic
study to examine Alcalis' problems and options in detail. The key options
considered were the eventual closure and liquidation of all or part of



- 28 -
Alcalis' operations, the rehabilitation through "quick-fixes" of the plant
units, and comprehens:Lve physical restructuring. The rehabilitation and
restructuring options were considered with a view towards privatizing Alcalis.
Based on the consultant's findings and recommendations, the Economic and
Social Policy National Council (CONPES) approved a restructuring plan to
resolve Alcalis' problems. The main features of the plan are as follows:
(i)   The closure of the soda ash unit of the Betania plant, in
accordance with CAR's (regional environmental agency)
recommendations. The nature and volume of discharges (chlorides)
into the Bogot& river from this unit are considered to render it
infeasible to continue operating that type of technological unit
in Betania. This would allow bringing the Betania plant into
compliance with CAR's environmental directive for the Bogot&
river.
(ii)  The reduction of the work force associated with this unit, as
well as other redundant workers at Betania and Cartagena and the
closure of the administrative headquarters in Bogot&. Total
personnel reductions may reach up to 1,000 people or almost 50Z of
the work force.
(iii) The creation of an independent Trust Fund to administer Alcalis
while it is restructured. IFI would transfer all of its shares in
Alcalis to the Trust Fund, which would own them until the company
is sold to the private sector.
(iv)  Abrogation of the current collective bargaining agreement which
provides for excessive wage and pension burden on Alcalis, and its
replacement by a new labor agreement to be negotiated with the
workers' union. In the event that a satisfactory renegotiation of
the labor agreement is not feasible, the plan calls for the
liquidation of Alcalis.
(v)   Minimizing the amount of restructuring investment prior to
privatization, leaving to future owners decisions about additional
investnents. The main rehabilitation investment under the
restructuring plan would consist of installing electrostatic
filters to comply with air emission regulations, for US$3.5
million.
(vi)  Allow for the future disposition of Alcalis by selling the two
plants together, or alternatively, either plant on its own.
(vii) Creation of a program, Programa de Asisteniia Socio Laboral, to
retrain displaced workers and to establish micro enterprise
programs, so that the workers can find job alternatives.
102.     This plan and the underlying strategy about Alcalis were discussed
with and are satisfactory to the Bank. As an agreement under the proposed
project, the Government would privatize or liquidate one of the two plants by



- 29 -
the mid-term review (para. 164), and liquidate or privatize the other plant by
the end of 1994.
(b) Concesi6n Salinas
103.     Concesi6n Salinas is a salt extraction and distribution monopoly of
the State, operated by IFI as a concession. IFI has no ownership in the firm.
Its agreement with the Government is to manage it for 5% of the net profits;
however, as Concesin Salinas has consistently generated losses, there has
been no return to IFI. There are two major locations where salt is mined in
Colombia -- Nemecon ad Zipaquira. The latter supplies wet salt through a
slurry pipe to Alcalis' plant in Betania for both Alcalis' own industrial
consumption and for refining purposes into table salt for human and animal
consumption. There are also facilities for recovering evaporated salt from
the ocean, with the major facility at Manuare. All of the salt refining is
carried out by Alcalis de Colombia in its two plants.
104.     A program has yet to be developed for restructuring Concesi6n
Salinas. An option would be to contract out salt refining and
commercialization, leaving the mining process in the hands of the Government
(perhaps municipal government). Manaure could potentially be organized as a
cooperative under the control of the indigenous peoples in the Guajira,
provided the sensitive social, cultural and political issues (including those
associated with the colonial and pre-Columbian roots of the salt monopoly) can
be satisfactorily resolved. The Bank would support a restructuring and
partial privatization of Concesion Salinas, based on a strategy acceptable to
the Bank.
105.     Restructuring of Concesi6n Salinas also has implications for Alcalis.
In addition to Alcalis refining all of the salt produced by Concesifn Salinas,
salt is the main raw material for Alcalis' operations.
106.     Under the proposed project, IFI and the Government would develop a
strategic plan for Concesifn Salinas by the mid-term review similar in scope
and content to the one prepared for Alcalis. In addition, the concession
would be transferred to the Trust Fund entity in the event no other
disposition was made of the firm by the project mid-term review.
(c) Papelcol/Prongal
107.     Papelcol is an integrated pulp and paper mill project begun in 1980
to produce printing and writing paper from bagasse. IFI, Feder cifn de Caft
and a group of private investors provided the seed capital for the venture.
Most of the project's financing was secured via export credits from France and
loans from French commercial banks, based upon the purchase of technology and
equipment from French suppliers. In the years that followed, the project and
some of its shareholders developed financial problems until Papelcol went into
concordato in 1987.
108.     In August 1988, IFI negotiated an agreement with the French banking
consortium to repurchase their loans to Papelcol of US$362.9 million for



- 30 -
US$70.9 million. IFI also repurchased loans from other creditors at a
substantial discount. The combination of loan repurchase and the loss of
share value represented by the soneordato left IFI as the only remaining
investor in Papelcol, with the investment value written down to approximately
US$85 million.
109.     In order to sell Papelcol to private investors with the objective of
seeing the plant completed and operating, IFI hired an internationally
recognized investment banking firm, J.P. Morgan, to prepare an offering for
Papelcol. The investment bank also organized a comprehensive technical
appraisal of the plant. After receipt of offers from three qualified bidders,
Papelcol's assets were sold to Propal, a joint venture between International
Paper Company and W.R. Grace and Company, that has operated successfully and
profitably in Colombia since 1961. The sale of Papelcol to Propal in August
1990 provided for the following:
(i)   Merger of Papelcol's assets with the assets of Propal;
(ii) US$16.1 million in cash at closing to IFI;
(iii) US$30.5 million debt (quasi-equity) instrument issued by Propal to
IFI that can be sold at any time by IFI;
(iv) 23.5% of the combined equity of Propal/Papelcol, equivalent to
30,844,510 shares in Propal, which IFI can divest in various
tranches over the next 1-5 years.
(v)   Completion of the plant, with IPI having an upside benefit if the
plant is completed within one year of the merger and at a cost
under US$40 million.
110.     Morgan estimated the present value of the cash, quasi equity and
equity consideration received by IFI at between US$95.5 million to US$106
million.
111.     While the sale of Papelcol to Propal increases concentration in the
white paper segment of the paper industry, it does assure plant completion.
Moreover, it privatizes the operation and converts one of IFI's major
liabilities into an asset with strong "upside" potential. It is currently
anticipated that the plant will be completed in December 1991 and will reach
70% of its rated capacity by year end-1992.
112.     In addition to being IFI's major single asset, IFI's holdings in
Propal have additional significance. The agreement with the Ministry of
Finance to resolve IFI's obligation to the social security system, due to the
problems associated with the Bonos de Valor Constante, is predicated on the
sale by IFI of its holdings in Propal. Alternatively, IFI is obliged to pay
this obligation from other sources of liquidity in four years from the signing
of the accord with the Ministry of Finance (i.e., June 1995). From the
project's perspective, the resolution of IFI's BVC problem has always been a
fundamental issue, and this problem will only be completely resolved when IFI
actually pays its obligation to the social security fund.



- 31 -
113.     IFI anticipates that it can realize higher value from the sale of its
shares and debt instrument, if the sale takes place after the completion and
running in period for the Papelcol plant and when Propal has demonstrated that
this additional capacity can be sold profitably. On the other hand, actual
market conditions such as the state of the Colombian economy, political and
social issues, and the capital market can also significantly influence the
realizable sale price. In addition, the sale of these shares is subject to
restrictions under the Shareholders' Agreement, dated 24 August 1990. This
agreement forbids IFI's sale of Propal shares until the "Start Up Date"
(defined as the earlier of commercial production of the Papelcol plant or
three years from the August 24, 1990 Shareholders' Agreement), at which time
IFI can sell 15.4 million shares. Additional share sales are then restricted
to a "Termination Date", defined as 3.6 years after the start up date or 6.6
years after the signing of the Shareholders' Agreement.
114.     As an agreement under the proposed project, by the mid-term review,
IFI would be required to sell the first 15.4 million shares of Propal and
apply the proceeds towards payment of its obligation to the BVC Fund. The
mid-term review should be approximately two years after plant completion,
ample time for Propal to demonstrate its increased profitability with the
inclusion of Papelcol. In addition, IFI would be required to sell the second
15.4 million shares by December 31, 1994 or as soon thereafter as the
abovementioned Shareholders' Agreement would permit.
(d) Cerro Matoso
115.     Cerro Matoso is a nickel mining and processing operation.  The
processing enriches nickel to ferronickel. The nickel was discovered by the
Richmond Petroleum Company in 1956, and in 1963 Richmond and the Hanna Mining
Company were given a concession by the government to mine the nickel. In
1970, the concession was modified and IFI entered the venture with a 1/3 share
in the concession.
116.     In 1976, a feasibility study was prepared for the construction of a
plant to enrich or upgrade the nickel ore to ferronickel, and in 1979, plant
construction was started. The shareholders--Econiquel/IFI (45%), Billiton
(Shell Oil) (35%) and Hanna (20%), formed Cerro Matoso S.A. Once the plant
was completed, Hanna provided technical services supporting operation of the
mine and the plant, and Billiton was responsible for marketing and sales
worldwide for the plant's output. Virtually all of the production is
exported.
117.     The Cerro Matoso project was finished in October of 1982.  During the
course of construction and due to the technical and market difficulties
experienced in the early years of operation, Cerro Matoso had to be refinanced
two times--in July, 1982 and February 1987. Additional capital was provided
by IFI and Billiton (US$71.1 million), sharoholders' loans (US$64.6 million)
and external credits--Chase (US$30.0 million). The Government, through the
Ministry of Finance, was obliged to replace the World Bank as a creditor when
the World Bank called on its guarantee in the course of the second
refinancing.



- 32 -
118.     The company was able to avoid technical bankruptcy by a financial
restructuring, which at the same time reduced the nominal value of its shares,
revalued its fixed assets, and reorganized the company's debt of US$253.8
million. Shell/Billiton purchased Hanna's interest, so that they now own
52.32 of the company and IFI remains with its 47.72.
119.     The company's cumulative losses exceeded US$130 million by the end of
1987; however, with the increased productivity of the plant in 1988 and the
rise in world nickel prices starting in that same year, the company has been
profitable ever since. In 1990, the company's exports totaled US$148.1
million, and it generated a net profit of US$34 million. During 1990, its
external debt was reduced to US$154.7 million. It is anticipated that most of
the external debt will be repaid as of the end of 1991.
120.     Cerro Matoso is planning an expansion of its processing operations
through the addition of a second electric arc furnace, adding 30 million
pounds of capacity. The investment will cost approximately US$115 million.
121.     The major issue is what role should the Government continue to play
in Cerro Matoso in the future. As nickel ore is a significant natural
resource of the country, there is basis for the State holding some ownership
as a way to  share in the rents of the natural resource.  The current
ownership structure (a mixed Jwnership of a joint venture between the managing
multinational with 52.3% of the shares and the State with the remaining 47.7%)
does not seem to be inconsistent with the principles of economic
liberalization guiding the ongoing public sector reform in Colombia.
122.     A second issue is whether IFI should continue holding Cerro Matoso,
should the Government choose to remain as an investor in the company. Given
IFI's new investment policies and Cerro Matoso's place in IPI's portfolio,
permanent holding by IFI as an agent for the Government is not an option, and
an alternative mechanism would have to be found by the State to hold this
investment. A related issue is what would be the appropriate timing for
possible privatization of Cerro Matoso, should the Government decide not to
remain as an investor in the company. The expansion project is expected to be
commissioned by mid-1993. Consequently, and factoring in at least one year of
demonstrated operational results, the optimal timing for possible sale of the
State participation would not occur before mid to late 1994.
123.     Taking into account the above issues, as an agreement under the
proposed project, IFI and the Government would prepare by the mid-term review
a strategic analysis of the investment in Cerro Matoso, including a review of
the alternative ownership structures to be considered for the company. In the
event IFI would not have sold this interest, then Cerro Matoso would be
transferred by December 31, 1994 to a separate Trust Fund Account, based on a
plan of action to be agreed by the mid-term review.
(e) Mon6meros
124.     In 1067, IFI, Ecopetrol, the Petrochemical Institute of Venezuela and
the Dutch firm Stamicarbon N.V. established Mon6meros with the objective of



- 33 -
producing caprolactim (a raw material for synthetic fiber production), simple
and complex fertilizers and other industrial chemicals. The plant came on
streatd in 1973, and after initial running in problems, at presert it is
considered an efficient petrochemical operation. Its present shareholders are
IFI (33.4%) and Ecopetrol (13.8%) from Colombia, Pequiven (33.4%) and
Plasticos Petroquimica (13.8%) from Venezuela, and Naamloze Vennootschap
(5.6%) fron the Netherlands.
125.     Mon6meros produces a variety of products ranging from 27,000 tons per
year of caprolactim, 400,000 tons of complex fertilizers to 100,000 tore per
year of ammonium sulfate. At present, the company is carrying out an
expansion to produce 120,000 tons per annum of TPA (terephthalic acid) at an
estimated :investment cost of US$150 million.
126.     Mon6meros is profitable and has grown steadily over the last several
years. In 1990, net profits reached Col$11,026 million (US$22 million), an
increase of 56% over 1989. The company exported US$14 million in 1990.
127.     As with Cerro Matoso, immediate privatization of Mon6meros may not be
feasible. The company is a joint venture with Venezuela, and any decision to
divest would require prior consultation with and agreement from the Venezuelan
Government. Moreover, the company is in the middle of a planned expansion
program, making divestiture more difficult. Given the special characteristics
of Mon6meros, it has been agreed under the proposed project that IFI and the
Government will prepare by the mid-term review a strategic evaluation of their
holding in the company, and proposals for alternative ownership structures.
If by the mid-term review IFI would not have divested this holding, a plan of
action would be drawn up and agreed at the review for the transfer of IFI's
shares in Mon6meros to a separate Trust Fund Account, by December 31, 1994.
The actual transfer of the shares by that date constitutes a dated covenant of
the proposed loan.
(f) CAF
128.     Corporacion Andina de Fomento was established in 1968 by the member
Covernments of the Andean Group, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and
Venezuela.  CAF role is to serve as the fin-actal institution of Andean
integration. It fulfills functions of a developisent bank, a commercial bank
and an economic/financial promotion agency. CAF's financial resources are
loaned out and invested in member countries for  rcojects in infrascructure,
industry, agriculture, transport, mining, energy, and other areas. CAF also
finances non-traditional exports of member nations within the Andean Group, as
well as to other markets, through the Andean Trade Financing System (SAPICO).
It also facilitates imports necessary for subregional development through its
letter of credit confirmation service.
129.     As of December 31, 1989, CAP total assets amounted to US$686.2
million, of which US$422.4 million were loans and US$132.6 million were cash
and liquid investments. As of the same date, CAF's liabilities totalled
US$277.8 million and were constituted mainly by borrowings and bonds. CAF's
equity represented USS408.4 million at the end of 1989.



- 34 -
130.     IFI owns one A-type share of a nominal value of US$1,200,000 and
5,100 B-type shares of a nominal value of US$5,000 each, for a total share
value of US$26.70 million. Colombia in total owns one A-type share and 22,160
B-type shares. The remaining 17,060 B-type shares are held by Banco de la
Republica (BR), for e nominal value of US$85.30 million.
131.     From IFI's point of view, this investment in a multilateral official
financial institution is not consistent with its new corporate strategy. By
the nature of this investment, it is not "privatizable," as there is no market
for it. Thus, IFI's shares in CAF would have to be transferred to the
Government who would subsequently nominate a new holding entity for them.
132.     Given the restructuring of functions of Banco de la Republica
mandated by the new Constitution recently approved, it is still to be
determined whether IFI's shares would ultimately be deposited by the
Government in BR, or whether both IFI's and BR's currently held shares would
be transferred to a third entity. As an agreement under the proposed project,
the Government would convey to the Bank, by December 31, 1992, an action plan
leading to IFI's divestiture of CAF shares satisfactory to the Bank. In
addition, actual divestiture of these shares by IFI by December 31, 1993
constitutes a dated covenant of the proposed loan.
F. Projected Financial Results
133.     With the assistance of consultants, IFI has developed a financial
planning model to develop various scenarios of IFI's earnings and financial
condition.based on its new strategy, lending and investment plans, sources of
finance, and organizational structure. Projections based on what is
considered the most likely scenario are reproduced in Annex VII. Summary IFI
balance sheet projections and earnings indicators are given in Tables 111.1
and III.2 to illustrate the shift in IFI's sources of finance and income (1990
are actual figures).
134.     The forecasts are based on estimates of future credit demand and
IFI's new role as promoter that arranges financing packages for priority
projects. It also reflects IFI's policy to price its loans at market and
promote its services in the areas of corporate financial advice and financial
services. The shrinking of its assets in 1991 mainly reflects the liquidation
of assets to pay IFI's obligations to the BVC Fund and the transfer of
remaining assets in the BVC Fund to a new trustee. It also reflects the shift
in IPI's financing strategy, from its past reliance on BVC funds and earmarked
capital contributions to market borrowing, initially from official
international institutions such as the Bank, and subsequently to an expanded
reliance on domestic short terms deposits and on the domestic bond market for
longer-term resources.



- 35 -
Table 111.1: Balance Sheets
(US$ million, December 31)
1990           1991            1995
Asuets
Loans                                 209            246             518
Investments                           131             73              27
Other Assets a/                       157             34              54
Total Assets                       497            353             599
Liabilities and Equty
Deposits                               10             20             58
Bonds                                  10             24             66
Other Domestic Borrowing                3             --             -
Central Bank Discounts                  9             14             19
Foreign Banks                          53             65             151
World Bank Loan                        --             --             100
BVC Dabt                              233             --             -
Other liabilities                      17             76              84
Total Debt                        335             199             478
Equity                                16Z            154             121
Total Liabilities and Equity          497            353             599
Equity to Total Assets                0.33           0.44            0.20
a/ Includes BVC loans in 1990
135.      Given the time lag for both international and domestic market
resources to be raised by IFI to compensate for the lack of its BVC resources,
IFI's asset size shrinks significantly during the 1991-1993 period. Only in
1994 would IFI have raised sufficient resources to return to its normal
average size (around US$550 million of total assets).
136.      The projections also reflect IFI's move to predominantly lending
(and related financicl services) activities and a gradual phasing down of its
equity portfolio. Moreover, the size of its loan and equity portfolic do not
reflect the expected importance and contribution of IFI as a financi±al
institution in that, as promoter of projects and arranger of financing
packages, in many cases IFI itself will take only a small share in the total
financing package for a specific investment.



- 36 -
Table I11.2:  Earnings Indicators
As a Rercentaee of average assets:
1990            1995
Interest and Commissions Earned        5.8            19.7
Investment Income                      0.8             1.9
6.6            21.5
Interest and Comm. Expense            Q3.0)          (11.6)
Financial Margin                       3.6             9.9
Provisions and write-offs             (2.5)           (1.6)
Administrative costs                  (1.9)           (1.2)
Other Operat. income (net)             1.7             1.0
Operating Income                       0.9             8.1
BVC and other non-operating
income and expense               02.3)             O.0
(1.4)            8.1
Taxes                                 l0.525
Net Income                            (1.9)            6.1
Return on Equity (Z)                  (5.9)           29.4
137.    IFI is an underleveraged financial institution (current debt: equity
ratio is 2.07: 1). In order to achieve a leverage rat.io more consistent with
normal practice among private financial inseitutions (which would in addition
allow IFI to generate a higher total return on equity and thus make IFI more
attractive to potential private investors), IFI will implement a dividend
policy of paying out a significant portion of its earnings as cash dividends.
In addition, in 1993 IPI's equity will be reduced by 23% as a result of IFI
transferring CAF to the Goverrment and Alcalis to the special trust fund for
free, i.e. with no counter payment or compensation of any kind. In this way
IFI would reach the equity base level, around US$120 million, which is
considered optimal.
138.    IFI's earning indicators show significant growth from 1990 levels as
interest charges are brought to market levels and a more businesslike approach
to investments increases dividend yields. Costs of administration would
decrease oubstantially in absolute terms (322 decrease between 1990 and 1992),
but would decline only gradually as a percentage of assets, due to IFI's
temporary asset shrinkage in the early years of the projection period.
Administrative costs as a percentage of assets would go down from a peak of



- 37 -
1.94% in 1991 to a level of 1.23% in 1995. In addition, IFI would monitor
this ratio for the universe of private financial corporations in Colombia, and
would maintain its own ratio below 110% of the average ratio of the private
CFs from 1994 onwards, with an interim target ratio of 130% for 1993.
139.    The net return on assets is expected to increase significantly, from
the past near-zero level to some 6% p.a. Although this is somewhat high for
traditional financial institutions, it reflects IFI's lower than average
leverage level. Return on equity would increase gradually, reaching around
30% p.a. at the end of the projection period. This expected return would make
IFI shares attractive for priva.e investors to enter its capital. In
addition, to ensure that IFI would start operating on a commercial basis as a
private financial institution, its minimum return on equity would be tied to
the average return on equity of the private CFs in Colombia. The objective is
for IFI to be at least as profitable as the average private CF. Thus, by 1994
IFI's profitability should be at least 90% of the average profitability of
private CFs.2 To help ensure that this relationship would be attained by
such date, intermediate targets for 1992 and 1993 have been set at 25% and
60%, respectively.
140.    These projections also reflect all other ratios and financial
requirements that IFI has to comply under the norms and regulations
established by the Banking Law and the Superintendency of Banks for financial
corporations. These include, inter alia, liquidity, solvency, portfolio
coverage, exposure to individual clients and capital adequacy criteria. This
last one is in accordance with the Basel standards.
IV. PAST BANK EXPERIENCE IN INDUSTRIAL SECTOR LENDING
A. Past Bank Assistance to Colombian Industry
141.    Bank DFC lending to Colombia began in 1966 with a loan of US$25
million to BR to onlend through five CFa as participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs). To date, nine DFC loans totalling US$588.5 million
have been made to BR, and the number of participating CFs has increased to
nine. All of these loabxs were designed to foater the development of
productive investments and to promote the institutional growth of the PFIs
concerned. While these objectives were generally achieved, the loans were not
primarily designed to '.-Ing about basic changes in policies influencing the
financial and industrial *-ctors. An Industrial Restructuring loan was
approved in FY91, designed not only to provide the financial resources needed
by the industrial sector, but also to support policy changes in the trade,
domestic competition, labor and technology areas necessary to increase the
international competitiveness of Colombian industry.
2 In order to avoid distortions due to short-term factors, IFI'.
profitability on a cumulative annual basis would have to equal or exceed the
agreed percentage of private CF's cumulative profitability.   In both cases,
profitability would be cumulative from 1992 onwards.



- 38 -
142.    In addition, five Bank loans totalling US$172.5 million have been made
to Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) in Colombia over the past fourteen
years, including a loan of US$80 million approved in FY89. The first four of
these operations focused principally upon generating employment and the
development of Colombia's specialized public development bank for SME lending,
the Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP). The SME 5 Project shifted focus
toward changes in policy and institutional constraints and on increasing the
number of PFIs intermediating BR industrial credit.
143,    The Bank has not previously lent directly to IFI.  Instead, industrial
credit lines supported by Bank loans have always been channeled through BR or
CFP. The proposed Project provides an opportunity for institutional
strengthening in the financial sector, as well as the potential for the
development of an institutional alterntative to BR industrial credit lines.
B. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Operations
144.    The lessons learned from the Bank experience regarding Industrial
Development and Finance in Colombia are based on the DFC and SME loans, as the
Industrial Restructuring Loan has yet to start implementation. These lessons
are:
Mi)    DFC investment lending is successful in achieving some traditional but
limited objectives, namely, providing the term resources required by
the industrial sector to finance its expansion and develop the capacity
in the financial sector to allocate those resources efficiently by
developing an adequate evaluation and supervision capacity;
(ii)   There are, however, shortcomings to this type of lending, namely, its
lack of effectiveness in dealing with the distortions generated by an
inadequate macroeconomic and/or sector environment and the eventual
constraint to further growth of domestic capital markets that may
result from financing investment mainly through subsidized directed
credit;
(iii)  DFC projects can make only a limited contribution to the stated export
promotion objectives, even with special concessional incentives
provided by these projects to export activities, if the exchange and
trade policies maintain an anti-export bias through (real) revaluation
of the peso and high tariffs;
(iv)   In terms of iinancial sector development objectives, these projects
were adversely affected by the decisions of the economic authorities to
utilize the financial sector as the principal instrument to control
monetary expansion and to compensate for the diminished flow of
resources to the real sectors by increasing resources allocated to
directed subsidized credit lines. Moreover, the significant burden of
forced investments and reserve requirements and the interest rate
ceilings imposed on final lending rates had drastic effects on DFCs'
profitability, casting doubts on the financial viability of DFCs that
have subsequently been overcome; and



- 39 -
(v)    A basic lesson to be derived from this experience is that for
industrial development and finance loans to achieve their declared
sector policy objectives, an adequate policy framework should be in
place, or clear understandings should have been reached with the
Government on the reforms needed to eliminate distortions in the
relevant sectors and in an appropriate macroeconomic framework.
145.   The proposed sector strategy and project have been designed taking into
account these lessons, and to reflect as well current "best practice" within
the Bank concerning divestiture operations3, viz:
(i)    Colombia's macroeconomic management has radically improved the adequacy
of the policy environment by reducing and eliminating most of the
distortions preventing an efficient allocation of resources that
prevailed in the 1970s and 1980s.
(ii)   Specifically for the real sector, the trade liberalization, regulatory,
tax and labor reforms recently undertaken provide a much more favorable
and undistorted framework in which productive investments take place;
the reforms carried out are consistent with the findings from the
Bank's sector work and the advice provided by the Bank in this area;
(iii)  A fundamental lesson has been applied by designing this loan under an
"umbrella" financial sector policy framework which provides for a
comprehensive medium term sector strategy and reform program (paras. 26
to 35) which, inter alia, deals with the past problems of forced
investments, high reserve requirements, and ceilings and subsidies on
interest rate levels;
(iv)   The project fully relies on market lending rates for beneficiary
enterprises, with no interest rate limitations, thus avoiding the ex-
post subsidies generated under previous lines caused by interest rate
settings and ceilings; and
(v)    The divestiture program of IFI's holdings has been designed taking
account of the specific circumstances of IFI and the enterprises being
divested, following a two-tier approach of setting specific timing and
individual targets for divestiture of major investments ("special
companies") and defining broader quantitative targets for the remaining
ones.
" "8ank Lending for Divestiture - A Review of Experience", Report No. WPS
338, Public Sector Management and Private sector Development Division,
May 1990.



- 40 -
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Relation to the Country Lending Strategy
146.     The Government's medium term development objectives are to sustain
economic growth at 4-4.5% per year, while maintaining fiscal and monetary
discipline; to increase industrial export diversification, particularly in
sectors of comparative advantage; to maintain creditworthiness; and to reduce
poverty and unemployment. The Bank's country strategy calls for emphasis on
project loans with selective support from policy-based operations to help
achieve these aims. The Government's relatively sound macroeconomic
management since the mid-1980s provides a generally adequate framework in
which to pursue this strategy at the sector level.
147.     During the last two years, the Bank has focused its policy dialogue
with the Government on the medium-term structural reform strategy to
accelerate economic growth by raising the efficiency of resource use. With
the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL), the Bank supports the Government's
overall effort to strengthen public sector management, promote private sector
development, and improve the allocation of public sector resources. The
proposed IFI project would complement these efforts by assisting Colombia to
correct institutional and market imperfections in the financial sector, and
would help rationalize and limit future public sector involvement in
industrial finance by actively supporting a program to transfer the control of
tIE's industrial assets to the private sector. Together with the PSRL and the
Industrial Restructuring and Development Project, it would form a package of
IBRD loans designed to facilitate the supply response to the recently
announced trade reform program. In addition, the proposed loan has been
prepared in collaboration with IFC, which is considering the provision of a
parallel loan for financing of private enterprises in Colombia. Coordination
in the design of both operations would ensure the adequacy of the relative
interest rates of the financing offered under both lines of credit.
B. ObJectives. Strategv. and Beneficiaries
148.     The development objectives of the proposed Project are to facilitate
the supply response to the Government's trade reform program by financing
investments in industries in which Colombia enjoys a comparative advantage; to
promote competition and the innovation of new instruments in the financial
sector; to restructure and transform into an efficient financial intermediary
the main public development bank for industry; and to reduce public ownership
and management of industrial enterprises. The strategy to achieve these
objectives is to support and monitor IFI's divestiture program, to reorient
IFI's role in industrial and financial development, and to support financial
restructuring and Institutional strengthening of IFI.
149.     Based on an analysis of past IFI clients and IFI's financial
projectionst the Project is expected to support over 200 new and existing
productive enterprises over a four-year period (1992-1995), of which a
substantial portion would be medium-scale firms with investments oriented
toward exports or involving new technologies.



- 41 -
C. Project Componrents
150.     Divestiture component (loan component included in TA component).  The
project would include a restructuring and divestiture program of IFI's equity
holdings which would help eliminate IFI's state holding company role and would
allow it to become a genuinely market-oriented financial intermediary. The
program encompasses the remaining 29 equity investments in IFI's portfolio,
which would be privatized, liquidated or transferred (paras. 94, 99 to 132).
151.     Credit component (loan comRonent of US$96 million).  Funds from the
credit component would be on3ent by IFI to private productive enterprises to
finance the imported component of investments in machinery and equipment,
spare parts, construction and/or purchase of industrial facilities (excluding
land), and working capital. The size of the credit component is based on
projections of credit demand under IFI's new strategy, which in turn are based
on the characteristics of IFI's historical loans to medium-scale enterprises.
152.     Technical Assistance (loan component of US$4 million).  The project
would include technical assistance for:
(a)      the design and implementation of management information systems
(hardware, software, and software development) and record systems;
(b)      training of IFI management and staff, including courses, seminars and
scholarships;
(c)      studies carried out by international consultants for the strategic
analysis of Cerro Matoso, Mon6meros and Concesion Salinas and for
defining a privativation strategy for IFI itself. Draft Terms of
Reference for these studies have been agreed at negotiations and are
in Annex IX; and
(d)      operational support, financing external consultants to assist LFI in
implementation of new policies, procedures, and controls, including
implementation of an organizational "total quality control" system.
Annex VIII provides a cost breakdown for the technical assistance component
and supporting information for the management information systems and training
activities.
D. Project Cost and Financing
153.     The estimated total project cost and financing plan for the proposed
Project is given in Table V.1 below.



- 42 -
Table V.1: Prolect Cost and Financing
(US$ million)
Credit        T.A.       Total
Sources of Finance
World Bank Loan              96.0          4.0       100.0
IFI Funds                   126.5         0.6        127.1
BR Rediscount Lines          65.0                     65.0
Firms' Internal Funds       123.2                    123.2
TOTAL                       410.7         4.6        415.3
154.    Total Project cost is estimated to be US$415.3 million.  The Bank loan
and BR rediscount together represent the estimated direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs of the credit program. The Bank share of the technical
assistance component covers the costs of both foreign and domestic consultants
and training, and the import costs of computer equipment and software. An
important part of the credit component is expected to be financed from IFI's
other sources of funds (e.g., certificates of deposit for working capital
finance, bonds, suppliers' credits, etc.) and BR rediscount lines of credit,
as well as internally generated funds of the beneficiary firms. These
estimates are based on historical data on projects financed by IFI. In the
future, a greater part of financing may be taken up by other domestic
financial intermediaries, as IFI's role shifts to that of a cofinancier and
arranger of financial packages for corporate expansions and restructuring.
E. Relendine Terms and Conditions
155.     The proposed Bank loan would be made to IFI at the standard variable
rate with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia. The loan would be repaid
in equal principal installments over 17 years including a five year grace
period. IFI would relend the credit component in dollar equivalent, thus
taking the cross-currency risk between the IBED pool of currencies and the
dollar. To minimize the impact of this risk, IPI would hedge this foreign
exchange exposure in the international financial markets through instruments
such as currency options, currency futures and loan swaps. Producers of
tradeable goods, both for exports or subject to import competition, are
generally in a better position by taking foreign exchange denominated
liabilities, and in this sense, there may be some self-selection of
subborrowers in favor of tradeable activities. Non-tradeable activities may
naturally tend to borrow from IFI's other (domestic) sources of funds.
Moreover, demand for loans denominated in foreign exchange is expected to
increase substantially following the recent trade liberalization (para. 10).
156.     In accordance with IFI's new credit policies, interest rates on
subloans would be at market rates, i.e. an adjustable LIBOR- or PRIME-based



- 43 -
rate plus an adequate spread. This spread would be sufficient to cover IFI's
cost of funds (IBRD rate plus hedging costs) plus IFI's costs of
administration, risks and a profit such as to yield IFI an adequate
profitability on its equity. IFI would also charge commitment fees and other
charges on its loans subject to its normal credit policies. Subloan
maturities would be between three and ten years, including one to three years
of grace. IFI would charge slightly higher interest rates for longer term
loans to reflect the additional risk of the subloan and the higher scarcity of
longer term resources. Subloans would cover up to 702 of subproject cost,
with equity financing representing at least 302 of subproject cost. Subloans
from IBRD funds to any single enterprise would not exceed US$10 million,
ceiling which would be consistent with IFI's exposure limits. Subprojects
would be required to have a financial rate of return no lower than 12% p.a. in
real terms. Given that the current trade reform program should substantially
reduce the distortions in the economy, an economic rate of return would not be
required.
F. Proiect Implementation
157.     Administration and overgsiht.  The project would be carried out by
IFI which, with its long history of project financing and management and the
implementation of its financial restructuring and reorganization plans, will
have an adeqtate organizational, staffing and financial capacity to carry it
out.
158.     Environmental Impact of Subproiects.  Subprojects financed under the
credit component would conform to the procedures and requirements established
for new investments under the Environmental Pollution Control Program
supported by the Industrial Restructuring and Development Project. This
program provides for mandatory screening and approval by the Division for
Environmental Policy (DEP) of the National Planning Department and/or the
regional environmental agencies of all industrial investments in order to
assure compliance with national and regional regulations. To ensure that the
Program would be put in place before subproject financing started,
effectiveness of the loan would be conditional upon effectiveness of the
Industrial Restructuring and Development Project. In addition, if the
obligations agreed under that Project on the Environmental Pollution Control
Program were subsequently not complied with, and the Bank therefore withheld
disbur&ements of that loan, disbursements of this loan could also be withheld
to ensure that no subproject financing occurred without the appropriate
environmental framework.
159.     Subborrowers would include, as part of their investment proposals, an
assessment of the environmental itpact of the proposed subprojects. For this
purpose, they would receive guidance as needed from IFI about the necessary
scope of the assessments and sources of expertise to carry them out.
Assessments would be the responsi'bility of subborrowers, who would bear their
cost. Under the Environmental Pollution Control Program, investment proposals
describing the investment's main characteristics, as well as the criteria and
pollution control measures adopted to assure compliance with environmental
standards, must be submitted for review and approval by DEP and/or the
respective regional environmental agency. Given this general procedure



- 44 -
applicable to all industrial investments, IFI's role would consist of guiding
the promoters in preparing their investment proposals and subsequently
ensuring that those proposals have been approved by the required instances.
Training of IFI's staff in environmental assessment would thus be oriented
towards that staff to acquire the necessary skills to advise promoters, but
would not qualify them to carry out or sanction the assessments, as this would
be an unnecessary duplication of functions with the established authorities.
160.     Bank review of subnroiects.  The Bank would examine the first four
subloans submitted to it for approval and would subsequently review prior to
approval every subloan of an amount above a US$2.0 million equivalent free-
limit. A full administrative, technical and financial evaluation would be
required for each subproject above the free limit. Data on the name of the
firm, its principal line of business, a brief description of the subproject,
its financing plan, and the terms and conditions of the subloan would be
required for each subproject below the free limit.
161.     Procurement and Disbursement.  IFI would be responsible for reviewing
procurement procedures to ensure that all goods and services financed under
the project were obtained at a competitive price and of good quality. IFI
would maintain records of the method of procurement followed for each
investment subproject and Technical Assistance subcomponents, and Bank staff
would review these records on a sample basis in the course of regular project
supervision. Under the credit component, for contracts exceeding US$5 million
equivalent, procurement would have to follow international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines, except in those cases
where direct purchase is permitted as per clause 3.5 of the same Guidelines.
Local manufacturers would be granted a preference margin for ICB contracts for
goods per Bank Guidelines. All procurement by ICB would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. For contracts costing less than US$5 million, procurement
would be done in accordance with normal commercial practices, which are
acceptable to the Bank, requiring contract awards on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three responsible suppliers under
the Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. All
subproject appraisals would include a discussion of procurement procedures
used and criteria for selection of suppliers of goods and services.   Under
the Technical Assistance component, contracts for goods costing less than
US$250,000 could be procured through local competitive bidding (US$0.9
million); contracts for goods costing less than US$50,000 could be procured
through shopping (US$1.1 million). Consulting services would be selected in
accordance with Bank Guidelines (US$2.4 million). All procurement by ICB
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The total contract amount to be
reviewed by the Bank (both a priori and ex-post) is expected to be about 702
of total project cost. Table V.2 summarizes the project elements and their
estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.



- 45 -
TABLE V. 2: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGENENTS
(US$ million)
Project Element                  Procurement Method               Total
ICB        'CB          Other          Cost
Sub loSi
Goods & Works        102.7                      308.0 al        410.7
(24.0)                     (72.0)         (96.0)
Technical Assistance
MIS Equipment                    0.9              1.1 bJ          2.0
(0.6)           (0.8)           (1.4)
Consultancies c/
Studies and mgmt. assistance                  1.8             1.8
(1.8)          (1.8)
Training                                      0.6             0.6
(0.6)          (0.6)
Training d/                                       0.2             0.2
(0.2)          (0.2)
Total                102.7       0.9            311.7           415.3
(24.0)     (0.6)           (75.4)        (100.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
j/ Normal commercial practice, but requiring price quotations from at least
three eligible suppliers.
hi To be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three
eligible suppliers, except for direct purchase of upgrading
components of existing mainframe computers.
el To be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
d/ Tuition fees, travel and subsistence
162.      The final date for submission of subprojects would be December 31,
1995, and the closing date for loan disbursements would be December 31, 1997.
In order to deal with a shortage of long term funds due to the phasing out as
of end-X990 of BVC and other earmarked funds as a result of early project
implepiantation in the financial restructuring of IFI, IPI has requested
retroactive financing in the amount of US$10 million (0l of the proposed
loan) £or subloans committed after May 1, 1991. These funds would be
available to finance eligible expenditures made during a period not exceeding
twelve months prior to signature date. To facilitate project execution, a
Special Account would be established with an initial deposit of US$5 million,
representing on average about four months of disbursements. 17 would submit



- 46 -
to the Bank a monthly statement of transactions of the Special Account.
Withdrawals from the loan account against contracto for subloans with values
equivalent tc US$1 million or less and contracts for the Technical Assistance
component with values equivalent to US$250,000 or less would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) with supporting documentation
retained by IFI for review by external auditors and Bank supervision missions.
All other expenditures would be fully documented.
163.        Monitoring, re0orting and auditing.  IFI would maintain records
adequate to reflect its operations and financial situation, in accordance with
sound accounting principles consistently applied and in a form acceptable to
the Bank. It would also maintain separate project records on the subloans and
technical assistance activities financed with loan funds. These records
should be adequate in scope and detail to permit Bank staff to supervise the
progress of the project. In addition to the supervision of IFI exercised by
the Banking Superintendency, which is applicable to all CFs, IFI's financial
statements and project records would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to tha Bank. The audit report would include ai.
examination of SOEs and their supporting documents. The audit report would be
provided to the Bank within six months of the end of IFI's fiscgl year.   A
separate audit on the Special Account, also by a firm of independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, would be required to be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the end of IFI's financetal year.
164.        A mid-term review of project execution would be carried out by the
Bank, IFI and the Government after fifty percent of the credit component of
the loan is committed, estimated to occur at the end of 1993 or early in 1994.
The review would take stock of accomplishments and introduce corrective
measures where warranted on the basis of implementation experience gained to
date. Such review would cover inter alia: (i) progress in reorganizing IFI,
including the organizational, staffing and information systems developments;
(ii) implementation of its new funding, lending and inve3tment policies and
procedures; (iii) its financial condition and financial performance; (iv)
progress in carrying out IFI's 1991-94 divestiture plan, and (v) a discussion
of the conclusions and recommendations of all studies financed under the
project to be completed by the review, includirg the definition of a
privatization strategy for IFI itself. Continued commitment of funds for the
credit component would be conditional upon completion of the review in a
manner 3atisfactory to the Bank. Annex XI includes the list of elements to be
covered by the review.
G. Project Benefits and Risks
165.        The Project would improve the financial situation and operational
efficiency of IFI and support the withdrawal of the public sector from
productive sector activities. By reorienting IFI's lending and investment
strategy, the projcct would contribute to the development of long term credit,
capital markets and other financial services, and would facilitate the supply
response to the trade and financial sector reform. The project would also
address the environmental problems of Alcalis and Salinas and contribute to
their solution.



- 47 -
166.        The Project would support Private Sector Development through:  (M)
privatiz:eion of public sector investments in the industrial sector; (ii)
financial support for private enterprises' investment through the provision of
term credit; and (iii) transforming a large public development bank into an
efficient atd competitive financial intermediary serving the private sector,
and ultim'Ately privatizing it.
167.        Project risks include the possibility that the Government and IEI
would fail to complete the divestiture program and to eliminate the special
regime and subsidies under which IFI has operated. Colombia's commitment to
reform in the trade, financial and public enterprise sectors during recent
years, as evidenced by the strong measures taken, suggest that these risks are
not excessive.
168.        Priov to Board presentation of the proposed loan, the following
actions have been taken:
(a)  'Government approval (through IFI's Board) of a final Policy Letter
for IFI (para. 66);
(b)   set-J2ement of the BVC deficit between IFI, the Government and the
new BVC Fund (para. 80);
(c)   completion by the Government of a study of pricing and allocation
mec}hanisms for second-tier funds (para. 35);
(d)   commitment by the Government to undertake by end-1992 all
necessary actions to phase out the Fondo Autom:otriz earmarked
funding of IFI (para. 75); and
(e)   comittment by the Government to undertake by end-1992 all
nec,essary actions to phase out the forced lending to CFP (para.
76).
VI. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED
169.        Durlng loan negotiations, agreements and understandings were
reached on:
(a)   JZ"1's future strategy and policies, as reflected in the Policy
",etter approved by IFI's Board;
(b)   }>I's maximum level of administrative costs, as a ratio to average
assets and using the average of private CFa as a benchmark (from
i.9923 onwards) (para. 138);
(c)  t1t's minimum profitability using the average of private CFO as a
b.-.chlwark (by 1994), and intermediate targets for 1992 and 1993
,para. 139);



- 48 -
(d) IFI's dividend policy, requiring IFI to pay a substantial cash
dividend every year, unless the Bank agrees that IPI is no longer
underleveraged (para. 137);
(e)   a divestiture program for the 24 equity holdings treated as a
group, including annual minimum targets for 1991-94 (para.98);
(f)   detailed terms of reference for the studies on Cerro Matoso,
Mon6meros, Concesion Salinas, and IFI privatization (para. 152);
(g)   commitment by the Government to submit by December 31, 1992 an
action plan for IFI's divestiture of CAF shares, and actual
divestiture by December 31, 1993 (para. 132);
(h)   privatization or liquidation of one of Alcalis' plants by the mid-
term review, and privatization or liquidation of the second plant
by end-1994 (para. 102);
(i)   development of a strategic plan for Concesion Salinas and transfer
of the concession to the Trust Fund by mid-term review (para.
106);
(j)   preparation by the Government of a strategic analysis of its
investments in Cerro Matoso and Monomeros, and sale or transfer to
the Trust Fund, by the mid-term review and December 31, 1994
(paras. 123 and 127);
(k)   sale by IFI of the first 15.4 million shares of Propal by mid-term
review; sale of the additional 15.4 million shares by December 31,
1994 or as soon as the Shareholders' Agreement would allow to do
so after that date (para. 114);
(1)   IFI's commitment to maintain lending interest rates at commercial
market rates, i.e. DTF to TCC (for Pesos) and US PRIME or LIBOR
(for Dollars) plus a spread adequate to cover intermediation
costs, maturity, risk and a normal profit (Policy Letter);
(m)   IFI's commitment to limit in its future operations its combined
equity and loan financing exposure to any individual client to no
more than ten percent of IFI's equity (Policy Letter);
(n)   IFI's commitment to limit in its future equity investment
operations its participation to holding no more than thirty
percent of the equity of the enterprises in which it invests
(Policy Letter);
(o)   IFI's commitment to limit in its future equity investment
operations its holding period, so that the weighted averitge age of
these investments does not exceed three years (Policy Letter);



- 49 -
(p) IFI's and the Government's commitment that, besides the existing
earmarked sources of funds which are being phased out, IFI will
rely on market sources of funds for its domestic funding (Policy
Letter);
(q)   effectiveneso of the Loan being dependant on effectiveness of the
Industrial Restructuring and Development Project loan (para. 158);
(r)   procurement principles governing both the credit and technical
assistance components (para. 161); and
(a)   a mid-term review of project execution to be carried out by the
Bank, IFI and the Government after fifty percent of the credit
component of the loan is committed, estimated to occur at the end
of 1993 or early in 1994 (para. 164).
170.        The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$100 million equivalent on the terms and conditions set out in Chapters
III through VI of this report.
cs%vpSJ%doca#\Se*r\txer. January 7. *9P2



-50-
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project
IFI Policy Letter
January 17, 1992
Introduction
1.        Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI) was established in 1940 with the
objective of promoting the establishment of basic industry and the initial
transformation of domestic raw materials to substitute imported raw materials.
This was in accordance with Colombia's import substitution model of development.
IFI's role was basically to invest where the private sector was not willing to
invest due to high Initial investment costs and higher than normal commercial
risk.   In addition, since 1963, IFI has been authorized to function as a
development bank, lending to industrial firms directly or through other financial
institutions.
2.        In its early years, IFI made direct investments in the food, beverages,
tobbaco, chemicals, basic mretals, and textile industries. Since 1975, emphasis
has shifted to the promotion of exports (such as ferronickel and coal) which
Government supported after the unexpected increase in petroleum prices.   In
recent years, IFI has tended to concentrate its investments in a few enterprises.
This was a likely development as IFI's sources of finiance have been relatively
limited and the typical investment for IFI was in relatively large projects. A
significant share of IPI credit has gone to enterprises in which IFI has an
equity share.
3.        In retrospect, many of IPI's investments fell short of expectations.
IFI often has felt obliged as a public sector institution to enter into
politically motivated investments.   IPI has also taken over ownership or
management of parastatal enterprises that have performed poorly, keeping
uneconoinic enterprises in operation through repeated financings. Thie has slowed
or prevented the exit of unprofitable public enterprises, and has led to a drain
on IPX's resources.  In some cases in whlch other investors have failed to
provide thetr share of investment costs, or where there have been cost overruns
or large operating losses, IFI has been forced to step in to provide additional
resources.
4.        Au the result of the accumulation of financial problems over time. it
became clear to Government and IPI that the Institution had to be restructured
in all aspects. As a result IFI Initiated its financial restructuring, portfolio
divestiture and internal reorganization, and the restructuring and privarization
of problematic parastatal eniterprises owned or managed by IFI.   The most
significant finmucial issue lhas beeni the resolution of the accumulated deficit
of the Bonon de Valor Congtante (BVC) Fund.
5.        All of these isaues are currently being addressed by  Government and
IPF, with substantial achiievemonts in all areas. Particular progress hna been
achieved In defining IPX's corporate mission and product/market strategy, in



-51-
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
restructuring its financing and credit policies, and in accelerating its
portfolio divestiture. These transition moves have been accompanied by a
strengthening in various operational capabilities and a substantial internal
reorganization.
General Context
6.        IFI's role in industrial development.   The reorientation of 1;FI's
operations must be placed within the framework of the trade reform program
initiated as an element of the "Programa para Ia Modernizacifn de la Economia
Colombiana" and continued by the current Government. IFI's strategy is designed
to address the need for industrial restructuring and facilitate the export supply
response to the trade reform. The program creates the need for financing new
firms, products, and technologies, with a wider range of financial instruments.
In addition, IFI's new role complements the Government's efforts to strengthen
public sector management, promote private sector development, and improve the
allocation of public sector resources.   Specifically, IFI's operations will
address the following industrial development issues:
3     The trade reform program creates the need for long term credit to finance
the restructuring of enterprises and for financing the acquisition of new
technologies in order to modernize production techniques and improve
international competitiveness.
o     This additional need for credit occurs precisely at a time when the
private financial sector's capability to support new investments and
industrial restructuring, in addition to the expected growth in imports,
is insufficient.
O     Restructuring requires more than credit:   an entire pool of financial
services will be necessary to support industrial enterprises in their
adjustment efforts.   In addition, financial institutions involved In
restructuring can only succeed if a close and direct relationship with the
customer is maintained.
O     The need for finanicing i4  especially acute for medium scale enterprises,
as this market segmenit currently receives a disproportionately low share
of credit relative to its production and needs.
O     Financial intermediaries tend to make credit decisions based on collateral
rather than on projected project profitability or cash flow.   The
reallocation of productive resources required during the trade reform
program will require a more efficient allocation of financial resources to
sectors in which Colombia enjoys a comparative and/or a competitive
advantage.
O     The new trade policy regime Implies greater levels of risk for financial
institutions. Close contact with and knowledge of the industrial sector
are prerequisites for sound risk management.



-52-
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
7.        IFI's role as a financial institution.  IFI's comparative advantages
as a financial institution include its knowledge of the industrial sector and its
close contact with industrial enterpriees; its large size in a relatively small
financial sector; and its access to external sources of funds.   In its new
strategy, IFI's comparative advantages will be related to a more focused
financial support business.   The historical emphasis on large investments
followed by credit support will be replaced by financing of more modest scope in
conjunction with other financial institutions. IFI will act mainly as a credit
institution, limiting direct investments to venture and seed capital, and will
focus on the market segment of medium scale enterprises. Unless otherwise agreed
within the context of the Financial Policy Framework of April 2, 1991, IFI will
operate as a first tier credit institution.
8.        IFI will offer a broad array of financial instruments, in order to
provide integrated financial support to industrial enterprises. IFI's financial
services will include assistance to determine optimal financial structures, the
provision of loans directly or through loan syndication with other
intermediaries, underwriting and assistance to find and coordinate the provision
of complementary sources of financing, and taking temporary equity positions via
minority share participations for the provision of seed/venture capital.
9.        IFI will play a catalytic role in financial markets by developing
packages of financial instruments and cofinancing arrangements with other
institutions to finance individual projects. Thus IFI will stimulate financial
sector development by cofinancing and coinvesting, promoting competition, and
stimulating financial innovation.
10.       In summary, the restructured IPI will focus its financial services on:
o     the provision of medium and long term credit as a first tier financial
institution;
o     financing new firms, products, technologies, and markets;
o     helping to finance the industrial restructuring program in Colombia;
o     evaluation criteria for credit allocation based on project profitability
and cash flow;
o     stimulating financial sector development by underwriting and participating
in packages of financing with other financial institutions;
o     quick and efficient approval and disbursement processes; and
o     the promotion of competition in the financial sector through a more
proactive and market oriented strategy that offers the industrial sector
a wider and more attractive set of products and services.



-53-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Obiectives
11.       The basic objectives of a restructured IFI are:
o     to finance industrial sector development;
o     to promote financial sector development;
o     to operate under financial performance criteria equivalent to those of
privately owned financial institutions; and
o     ultimately, as these objectives are met, to privatize part or all, of IFI
itself.
Policies
12.       Target market.  IFI will initially focea its industrial financing on
the market segment of medium scale enterprises (currently estimated as firms with
total assets between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$25 million).  In
addition, within its financial capabilities, it will finance and will prepare
financial packages for large scale enterprises.
13.       Lending policies.   IFI's  interest  rates will  be maintained  at
commercial market rates, i.e., DTF or TCC (for Pesos) and US PRIME or LIBOR (for
Dollars) plus a spread adequate to cover intermediation costs, maturity, risk,
and a normal profit. IFI will mainly provide medium and long term credit, as
required by the financing needs of the project.   IFI wrill limit its credit
exposure to any individual client to ten percent of IFI's equity.   Credit
evaluation will be based on tho project's financial, and if appropriate economic,
viability and the cash flow prospects of the enterprise and project, supplemented
by appropriate collateral.   IFI will offer both local e.nd foreign-currency
denominated loans according to the financing needs of individual projects, and
will continue to build its lotter of credit operationt.
14.       Iwvestment nolicies.  In accordance with its now strategy, YFI F ill
make equity investments in order to promote industrial development, by playing
a catalytic role in the croation, expanoion and rohabilitation of now projects.
The investment policies will be the followings
o     an Adequate economic and financial rato of return;
o     exposure limito of equity and loan financing combined of no moro than ten
percent of IFI's equity and of equity participation of no more than tlhirty
percent of the total equity of the enterprise;
o     such invootmonto will requiro a clear dofinition of IFI'o exit stratogy.
In any caoe, tho maximum timo span of IFI'o investments ohould be around
fivo yoaro or lseo



-54-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
o     consideration  will  be  given  to  quasi-equity  instruments,  such  as
convertible debentures or subordinated debt with warrants, such that IFI
will receive a return on its investment and have the opportunity to
benefit from their conversion privileges.
O     the total of IFI's new investments will be limited to a pool of funds.
The pool would initially be the peso equivalent of no more than U$35
million, and future size would be determined by the success overtime of
these investments;
o     priority will be given to projects involving exports, new products,
markets, or technologies, as well as syndication and the attraction of
foretign direct investment. Nonetheless, the decision for an investment
will be determined, essentially, by the economic and financial feasibility
of the project.
15.       Fee-based business. Fee-based business will be derived from corporate
advieory services, restructuring services, and syndication, trust, and other
services.
16.       Sourcesof funds.  IFI will rely on market sources of funds in local
and foreign markets, including inter alia term deposits, credit lines
rediscounted through the Banco de la Republica, direct investment through capital
marketa, bondos external commercial banks, and bilateral institutions, and will
phase out any subsidized cources of funds. Official multilateral sources will
be considered a transitional source of funds.
17.       Financial performance criteria. IFI's general financial objective will
be to generate sufficient earnings and make substantial dividend payments to
attract both market sources of funds and private investment, which will
eventually allow IFI to attract significant private participation in its capital
structture. IFI will develop a concise financial strategy covering the following
areass profitability, liquidity, portfolio management, leverage, and dividend
payout policy.
Plan.of.Action
18.       In order to achieve its objectives aud stated policies, IFI and the
Government will implement the following plan of action:
Pinancial restructurine of IFI:
o     resolution of IPI's liability for the deficit in the BVC Fund and its
transefr of fiduciary responsibility and fund management to a third party;
o     implementation of the 1991-1994 divestiture program;
o     establislument of an independent entity, that would receive IFI's shares in
Cerro Matoso and Monomeros, and if applicable, also in Alcalis.  The
structure of this new entity, as well as the mechanism for the transfer of



-55-
ANEX I
Page 6 of 6
the shares, would be defined and put in place not later than December 31,
1994. This scheme should ensure the financial independence between IFI
and these enterprises. It would also allow IFI to fulfill its mandate of
being a promoter of new investments, as opposed to an industrial holding
company.
Ogerational strengthening i
o     implementation of new policies and procedures;
o     design, development, and implementation of new control and management
information systems;
o     reorganization of the internal audit function;
o     development and implementation of a promotional and marketing strategy.
Internal-reorganization of IFI:
o     establishment of the new organizational structure;
o     development and implementation of a plan to retrain, recruit, and retrench
staff.
Definition of long-term strategy:
o     IPI will carry out, with the assistance of a merchant or investment bank,
an analysis of its role as a publicly owned institution and the
alternative ownership structures that could be selected in order to meet
the objectives stated in para 11. This analysis should also include the
definition of the strategies to implement the possible alternatives
proposed.
o     Based on this analysis, the Go'vernment will decide on the ownership
structure of IFI and the related plan of action to implement it.



ORGANIZACION ACTUAL
.                                                    r~~~~~~~~~~~~~GERENCAA 
SUGBERENCIA                             SUBGERENCA                              SUBGERENICA OE                            S
DECREDITO                               FINANCIERA                              INVERSIONES                             ADMINISTRATIVA
Dopaitamuido di              ~~~Dopmamn:nno de                         Oopuflamento d                           D.pmtam.rod.
PtmnOdn do                                PZansocift                             Ptamo,d6rdndoec
Crimtoo                                 Finoncstoa                              Inverialnmo                              Generale$
oapaltamntods                                                                                         De~~~~~~~~~DpaamnbdoOpaninetom o doe'9
EDudolonde                              Dspwaitmono                               Conlrol de                                Deotosno'
CrrSIos                               InOmboonaI                                lnvesisonou                            O,ganlzmdoa)W
OopaftLamoflhod                         Dopaxtamontodo                             Ottclna de                             ooptiaminentodo
contmWol                                Fldolcwmlso                           Manojo y C tDW                              Roladonia
Don                                    do Dines                         _       nduatrlas
Dapadtamento de                          coaft T6cntdco
Cartara
Dopavtamo-ito de
Toaorouf
0I~
<  m  43                                    t          _      ]                        m            t                 |     o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Bopartamunto de                                  da
ConbaWdad                                   y    t
0



IFI -- NEW ORGANIZATION CHART
|.   __    H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~weat G.moa
"tuft r-,:hDS     b E A                                                                 -- I d
r                            I
L   lka.uiisda Caordai  VlmpnIatacI. lloaadar.     fwlsdc.Flaa Ocudl.o     VkeprMideaclm Opradimun    ftef"Mat"f &&MmnaazaIm
|tomsdm de Cftatm  negimsu na"ckm        CAmi a  (xoIio          Ictemuload ona lumus
Wi-iaya n          !oud aba                                                                                                    s
sateaa,o Iolormacladgmo                                                         am=" 303mUem3ID
Cl.l,. de loverAIa.



222  to CaDi- fT      S,  14.1Y5D tGdl cl a
1t"        2       1135        2       1I65       1        191        S        93        2        19         2        10         S
hI3= cuIrT LIM                              12,4S9.0    63.12   5.417.5    12.92   .539.0  7S.65  35,94.3    43.32  29,423.9    71.s2   17.31.9    39.12   8,54s.0 Q        1.92
_rn de re        at_str2 (Ml          t       95.7     6.02   2,K47.4    32.2z      t27.7      6.32  13,222.1    33.52       67S.3    U.9z      74.9      0.32     211.1     0,52
BniC3 coot"                                633.3             2,2531.4             544.0             5,289.-               363.1               53.9               211.1
Ilial tbwvta                               252.9               5ts.0               230.7            5.332.4               403.9               23.0                 0.0
am do Taler C _tina  3CM)                  9,595.0    5.32   2.950.S    33.32   4.183.3    43.t2         46.2     0.z   24.7952.3    60.32  19,022.3    27.52      647.9     1.92
a:ft5a C2al1                             5*439.1             2,334.S             3,263.9               45.2            10,4sS.o             6,315.s              462.0
liaSd ZEe.SIint                          3,160.3               626.0             3,149.5                0.0            14,292.5             7,545.t              195.9
Fob" hA?mtr.                                 155.5     3.IZ      203.3     2.32      Us.5      3.0Z     471.5      1.32    1,692.2    4.0z     024.0      3.62   1,071.2     2.4Z
V.*1| CavIta                         D133.4               154.6               105.5              2v.               3,015.6               23S.2              821.5
*a   1.oatt                                 34.1                38.3                30.0              219.1               $25.4              340.5               255.7
C_ 6#163 Zalagega                            558.0     3.62      40.6      0.5t   3,014.3      9.1Z    20.9      0.n2   1,543.1      3.6Z     533.3      3.02   3,024.7     6.12
LM aoIlu  aueems                             12W.0     4.92     303.7      3.S5     195.2      I.2       s2.5     0.21       30.0     0.02       0.0     0.02        0.0     0.0I
Ut2 O - sesgame                               10.4     0.32      22.8      0.32      S3.5     0.75   3,020.0      S.32      33.1      0.n     1,792.5     3.52   1,589.5     3J.1
Ct)ar t2l Lima of                            155.4     3.7Z      84.0      0.92    1,335.2    12.02     335.0     3.It      355.3     0.92      150.0     0.32   1,91.5      4.22
3m2 wUOcnf mm LuA  n= ol                     1.090.0     7.32   1,292.7    14.52   2,119.0       9.S    7.71.3    21.22      822.7     2.01  17.9.7    35.2Z  32,909.7    23.52
rams. Flinlarin 2l_sral CM)                    0.0     0.02       0.0      0.02       0.0    o0.0         0.0     0.02        0.0     O.OZ     500.0    1M        330.0     0.3Z
U.Uat   Cq£5t3                                                                                                              0.0                0.0                 0.0
ramA lwatmta                                                                                                                0.0              se0.0               300.0
raws, waelnse Priws., (1 1M)                   0.0     O.0Z       0.0      0.0S       0.0      0.0e       0.0     o.02      350.0     0.42     221.0      0.42   1,93,.5     4.32
Vak1s CGpltal                                                                                                         0.0                 2.0               355.2
Ilia   ZAr6tal                                                                                                            150.0              219.0             1.963.4
IrMp                                       1,090.0     7.32    1,292.7   1.52    3,130.0      9.92   ?71.3.3    21.22      S72.71    a.52  M1U25.M    33.52  1O0s30.1    23.52
LIM  0 CM,T DI        CO      Z 1Z           3,333.5     8.92   131J9.7    12.62   I,5sz.6    13.5Z   12,201.3    33.52  10.624.0    26.42  15,6.4         30.1   23,659.1    52.42
am mlterlals. lularmduta Coal.. LICe       1,133.5     7.62   1,111.7    12.62   1.502.6    13.52   3,77S.7    29.12   2,323.1        s.12  I.1.5.6    20.42  17,276.0   39.35
C4pitel Cago                                 200.0     1.32       0.0      O.OZ       0.0      o.0z   3.423.1     9.92   6,499.9    20.12   5,2s0.8    10.3Z   6,377.3    34.3z
cAN                                          0.0                0.0                  0.3            2,368.4               256.0               412.2                0.0
ClDSQr                                       0.0                0.0                 0.0                 0.0             2,93.3               175.0                0.0                 . 
CIb: 3D                                    201.0                0.0                  0.0            1,034.7 1,217.6                         4,653.5            6,317.3
tD X
2022 cQ i                                   1434,12.5   3o0.=2   6,900.0   lo0.02 3z.155.3   100.02  36,439.4   100.0z  41,070.S   loo.ez  53,013.0   300.02  45,111.3   IOO.OZ    1-' H
0 H
*1 Ot   1 lme  gt etat 1tades foods do Caplstlatbam Taprtesaial. Ba. 205l3 atesa). *.a- 29-52183 (trtiIlea), SGf S4,.at&lklI (ttuaml r Mlrels
LU. 358 J. . r           Ul. PcnmI.raa. l.a. 12180. Vcrad 2366, land. de 3r4uatsa, and Stoa do Do.arrollo Induatrlal Clo raelaaO  lOtlsutrOa.
81 Otba Caip szebasgs time lucLad IN. BB. blmbank and a91. 40165.
gacce. m.



TABLE 2: IFI CREDIT BY SUBSECTOR, 1986-1990 (ColS millions)
1986        2        1987        2         1988        2        1989         2        1990        2
AiUWPACWRING                      10,167.0     91.02   35,408.0      97.2Z   40,633.1      98.9Z   48,063.1     94.22   44,798.5      99.32
Fcod Products                    2,245.2     20.12    2,564.7       7.02    3,058.1      7.42    6,115.6      12.02    4,975.3      11.02
Textiles                         2,221.4     19.9Z    6,959.4      19.1Z    7,254.1     17.72    5,600.2      11.02   10,383.2     23.02
Wood Products                       25.0      0.2%       135.9      0.4Z      104.8      0.32       193.3      0.42       50.0       0.12
Paper Products                   1,612.5     14.42    3,764.3      10.32    4,671.2     11.42    4,197.9       8.22    3,705.3      8.22
Chemicals                          484.2      4.3Z    5,470.1      15.02   12,147.2     29.62   17,169.9      33.72  i1,451.1       25.42
Hon-Metallic Minerals              128.5      1.22    2,885.8       7.92    4-494.9     11.42       699.2      1.42      809.1       1.82
Basic Metala                     1,075.6      9.62    4,686.3      12.92    3,398.7      8.3%    5,815.5      11.42    3,349.7       7.42
Metal Machinery                  1,338.8     12.0Z    3,649.3      10.02    1,743.9      4.22    5,581.0      10.92    5,827.7      12.92
Transport Equipment                854.6      7.72    1,983.3       5.42    2,681.e      6.52    2,686.3       5.32    3,050.6       6.82
Other Manufactures                   3.7      0.02        23.0      0.12      342.8      0.8%         4.2      0.02      590.1       1.32
Other Industrial ActLvities        108.5      1.02    3,225.9       8.92      535.6       1.32        0.0      0.02      606.7       1.32
Industrial Parka                    69.0      0.62       60.0       0.22        0.0      0.0%         0.0      0.02        0.0      0.02
KMINlG                             1,000.0      9.02       476.4      1.32      334.0      0.82    1,639.7       3.22      112.9       0.32
Coal                             1,000.0      9.02      239.7       0.72        0.0      0.02       786.5      1.52      100.0      0.22
Metallic Minerals                    0.0      0.02         0.0      0.02      334.0      0.82       803.2      1.62        0.0       0.02
Otbers                               0.0      0.02       236.7      0.62        0.0      0.02        50.0      0.12       12.9       0.02
FISHING                                0.0      0.02      555.0       1.5Z      103.5      0.32    1,308.2       2.62      200.0      0.42
TOTAL CREDIT APPROVED             11,167.0    100.02   36,439.4    100.02   41,070.6    100.02   51,011.0    100.02   45,111.7    100.02
Source: IlF.                                                                                                                                          0
H F
tn



A~',N: iIII
-60-                                    Page 3 of 5
TABLE 3: IFI CREDIT BY TYPE OF CREDIT AND FIRM (1984-1990)
(Col$ millions)
Cupos
Ordinary     Refiuancing                      Letter      Rotatorios          TOTAL
Credit     & Extensions    PROEXPO       of Credit      Especiales        CREDIT
1984
lFl Firms            4,771.3          790.0        1,000.0          453.5            0.0        7,014.8
Others               6,389.2          739.4           90.0          680.0            0.0        7,898.6
TOTAL               11,160.5        1,529.4        1,090.0        1,133.5            0.0       14,913.4
Z                       74.82          10.3Z           7.32           7.62           0.02         100.0Z
1985
IFI Firms               74.3        1,221.5        1,289.7          859.2            0.0        3,444.7
Others               4,606.3          585.5            3.0          260.5            0.0        5,455.3
TOTAL                4,680.6        1,807.0        1,292.7        1,119.7            0.0        8,900.0
2                       52.62          20.32          14.52          12.62           0.02         100.02
1986
IF} Firms              343.2        1,838.3        1,000.0          826.5            0.0        4,008.0
Others               4,338.8        2,033.8          111.0          676.3            0.0        7,158.9
TOTAL                4,682.0        3,872.1        1,110.0        1,502.8            0.0       11,166.9
2                       41.92          34.7%           9.92          13.52           0.02         100.0%
1987
1PI Firms            2,794.2          254.4          780.0        1,425.4            0.0        5,254.0
Others              16,721.6          200.2        6,963.3        7,300.3            0.0       31,185.4
TOTAL               19,515.8          454.6        7,743.3       8,725.7             0.0       36,439.4
2                       53.62           1.22          21.2%          23.9%           0.02         100.02
1988
I11 Firms            6,258.7        5,189.0           23.5          334.0            0.0       11,805.2
Others              25,931.5          693.5          649.2        1,991.2            0.0       29,265.4
TOTAL               32,190.2        5,882.5          672.7        2,325.2            0.0       41,070.6
2                       78.4%          14.32           1.62           5.72           0.02         100.02
1989
IP1  Firms           1,928.6          167.4        3,715.0        1,394.9        1,061.8        8,267.7
Others              20,444.7          839.0        2,831.6        4,085.4       14,542.7       42,743.4
TOTAL               22,373.3        1,006.4        6,546.6        5,480.3       15,604.5       51,011.1
2                       43.9X           2.0Z          12.82          10.72          30.62         100.02
1990
IFI Firms            1,232.9          522.1          200.0          803.3            0.0        2,758.3
Others              13,985.1        1,503.7        2,802.2        3,856.4       20,206.0       42,353.4
TOTAL               15,218.0        2,025.8        3,002.2        4,659.7       20,206.0       45,111.7
2                       33.72           4.52           6.72          10.32          44.82         100.02
Source: IF1



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5
-61-
TABLE 4: LOANS TO COIMPANIES IN WHICH IPI HAS INVESTMENTS
(Millions of Pesos)
Companies                           B.V.C.   Other Lines   Rediscounted  International         TOTAL
CARBOCOL S.A.                                                                                    0.0
COSEDA                                              232.1                                      232.1
CERRO KATOSO S.A.                                                             11,664.1      11,664.1
CATSA                                315.5          361.9                                      677.4
INGERIO RISARALDA S.A.                 73.9                                                     73.9
PROVlCA LTDA.                          5.9           15.0                                       20.9
TEXPINAL S.A.                        435.7           10.0          90.0         378.3          914.0
FATEXTOL S.A.                                                                    218.6         218.6
PEDERALTEX S.A.                                                                  189.3         189.3
COPESCOL S.A..                                       12.0         127.0                        139.0
PESTOLU S.A.                                                                                     0.0
FRIGOPESCA S.A.                                     200.0                                      200.0
ALCO S.A.                           3,760.6                                      635.6       4,396.2
EERTICOL S.A.                                        63.3                                       63.3
40ONOMEROS COLOBBO-VENEZOLANOS S       98.5          25.0         225.0        4,457.1       4,805.6
NITROVEIl C.A.                                                                                   0.0
INDUSTRIA QUIHICGA PENNWALT S.A.       75.0          62.9         138.2         250.0          526.1
PRODESAL S.A.                         195.0                                                    195.0
CEMENTOS RIOCLARO S.A.                250.0           8.3          38.0          282.3         578.6
COLCLINKER S.A.                                      19.5         175.5          504.1         699.1
AICSA                                                                                            0.0
INTELSA                               118.3          58.4                                      176.7
CONASTIL S.A.                         480.0         181.2         395.6                      1,056.8
FORJAS                                              265.1                         43.3         308.4
C.C.A.                                 61.6                                   3,680.3        3,741.9
ASTIVAR                                 1.3                                    3,680.3       3,681.6
ARTESANIAS DE COeA'lDIA S.A.                                                                     0.0
PROCULTURA N.A.                                                                                  0.0
CORPORACION ANDIIWA DE POMENTO                                                                   0.0
PAPELCOL                                            749.2                                      749.2
CORFIPOPULA  S.A.                                  372.0                                      372.0
PONDO NACIONAL DE GARANTIAS S.A.                                                                 0.0
* T 0 T P L  *                   5,871.3        2,635.9       1,189.3      25,983.3       35,679.8



FIGURE 1: INTEREST RATES ON IFI CREDIT
1987-1990
Interest Rate (%)
45
40 -
35   -  -  '  '  '           $  *  g  *  2(  I
30
25          IIIIII          I I i  I t  I i:,,,,,  I,,,   t I 1 I L I I I I I I I I I  M
1987                 1988                  1989                  1990
BVC
*~ IFI Resources. 68/83               COMMERCIAL BANKS
Pi x
Note: Effective interest rates on. Z 
fixed investment loans.                                                             m H
Source: IFI.                                                                        >



Table ':  COLCBIA - iFI'S HOLDINGS SOLD SINCE 198S
iFZ Iuvestment                Pricelstock
F=,e of Cc'5ary      Industry           -                                  --- - -----------         Realized   Date Sold    Method of
IFI l?o.       Z    Nominal        Book        Offer        Sales Value                  Sale 1/
of Shares             Value         Value       Price         (Hill. S)
(HIll. S)    (ill. $)   (Coi $)
Tejidos Unica        Textiles         1,105.273       3.6      11.0S         11.1       95.0           105.3      Mar 1988         PO
Sofasa 2/            Auto             1,085,648      49.7  1.085.60      2,010.4   16,918.1         18,367.1      Feb 1989         DP
Fosfonorte           Phca. Rock             691       i.0      0.70      1,439.3    1,250.0              0.9      Feb 1989         DP
Ciac                 Services           103,709       0.5       i.00         4.0        38.0             3.9      Mar 1989         PN
CorfariaG            Services         4,239,005       5.6     42.39         n.a.        65.0           275.5      Oct 1989         PN
Fosfoboyaca          Phos. Rock           9,000       6.4      9.00         n.a.    1,000.0              9.0      Feb 1990         PN
Clcolsa              Azro-ind           140,000      17.4      14.00        n.a.       190.0            14.0      lat 1990         PN
Aicaa                VetaLmechanics 1.321.920        49.0      13.22         13.2      144.1           190.5      Apr 1990         PN
Fls. Risars,da       Sugar Refin.   2,307,568        11.7    2>,.50         n.a.       421.3           972.4      Jul 1990         OE
Colclinker          0Cetsnt             IIS.;07      15.7    118.10        284.0   16,160.0          1,908.6      Oct 1990         PN
Cementos R5o Claro  Cement           5.0S1,585       10.3    508.16        792.1       430.0         2,185.1      Dec 1990         PO
CC,                  Auto-assembly    505,055         0.2      0.01        506.0       421.3           212.8      Dec 1990         PK               i
Papelcol  3!         Paper               n.a.       n.a.       95.5         n.a.        n.a.        95 - 106      Jul 1990         PH
Total                                             2,034.06 (excluding Papelcol)            24,245.1 (excluding Papelcol)
it D2: Direct preference to existing sharebolders, public offering.
r7-: Private negotlation.
PO:  Ptslic offe:ing in the exchange.
0S:  tb:lic OfferinS outslde exchange
21    Direct sale of IFI's shares:                             USS Mill.
-  Dcm PYayrnt ............. .....................         15.0
- taount payable at the end of the third year.._           15.0
-  Total =ount payable annually durIng ten years           18.7
9° Annual Interest over the USSIS million.
31  ?apelcol's value expressed in US$ mi1lon.  Sale of Papelcol for:                                                                                D 
- USS 15 milllon cash                                                                                                                           >
- Shares and debt irstr=ent of new entity PropalJPapelcol; total package valued at net present value of USS million 95-106.                  o
Scurce:  'I. -F



Table 2:  CODMICA - IPI LIQUIDATIONS
(Millions of Co!$; 2)
IFlI Investzent         Loans           Liquidation Status                 Write-Off
Vam sf Copany               Zndustr7   ---                        from          -------------------------   -------------------
r4ominal     :            iFI              Date        Recovery      Capital 11   Loans 11
Value                Outstanding      Terminated   Anticipated
Agrozul1a ,1                  Agro-ind    294.0       39.4                     I ln Process           None         294.0
Astivar 31                    Shipping       1.5      31.0              6.1   In Process               6.5           1.1             _
Calizas del Heta                Mining       5.5      25.5               -        1989                 2.0           5.5          15.5
Carboreras Nacionales           Uining       2.4    100.0                _        1989                 2.0           2.4
CarvaUe 41                      mining      10.2      99.9               -    In Process              30.0            -
Colombiana de Hineria           Mining      22.5      99.9             35.5   In Process               1.5          22.5          34.0            1
Cometcol                1?etalmechanics      2.0      20.2               -    In Process             None            2.0             -
Endessrrollo                  Promoter       1.7      20.8               -    In Process               5.0            _              _
Ferrorinera                     Hining      34.4      37.2               -    In Process             None           34.4
Forms 51                        iletal      26.0      25.8             70.0   In Process          1,624.0             -
Total                             400.2                      111.6                       1,671.0          361.9          49.5
11  IFl's estimates.
21  In process of concordat.
31 Estimated future recovery (06.5 Hill3.
41  Profit on liquidation ($19.8 Hill).
51  The assets were sold In December, 1988.
Source:  iF}, I
0zX
o c



*                                                                                                                                                                                  *
*                                                        'ETAS   3 v 11 IS`VES1.dS   - ElhIlV  rIIM&IAL DATA                                                                       *
*                                                                                                                                                                                  *
*                                                                                                                                                                                  *
*                                                          9&TZ Or       TOTAL        11I  0? WI  orM. VALI3              MASS              SALES   EIO1TS  PROFITS FID ASSETS *
*                                                 612TH  A33. 16VESTS=  SEAL-ES    S8m25   TMSHIP    oF S8         SCol. Mill  US$ 000
9                                                                                                                                            $28!      US$1      $18         $ 2SS N  *
*                                                                                                                                                             , 
* A - 12m  UQUIZZATOMS PIL0? To 1991 3                                                                                                                                             *
*                                                                                                                                                                                  *
* *OLOZfZA S. A.                              AS3ZVULA  10-3Jg-74   7.067.0r1  2.939,701       39.42         0oo         0.0      $0.0         42       $0.0      (19)       1.205 e
* 61LUO VAUD=  BOD        V MmA L7.10.          6S67    224US-74       150,0D0    46,500       31.0:         IOO         1.3      $0.0    26,690        $0.0       (0)    84,224 *
* CA1UJ-S  ;  -L=L I DM 6AWA 5.A.              CARVLLIE  06-Apr-58   1,022.864  1.022,044       99.9:         10         0.0      $0.0        Rl         VIA       R/A        S/A  *
* CO;L!2    DE W2UX  LT7A.                     COELMWS                  22,300     22.499      100.02       1.000        0.0      SO.O        RlM        VIA       l/A        MIA *
* cape'r ?ToILVT7510 DE 00tQ)Ih S.A.           C2=OL  26-Mov-86       197.420    40.000        20.3%         100        0.0      $0.0        MIA       RIA       MIA         21A t
* EUISSA Dl DZSA1W5D DE SUSMl S.A.    DlESAU0LL0 28-F.t-70             755 260   446,202        59.12         100        0.0      $0.0        XM         Nth      21           11  *      I
* Fei208                                    PZRRJIZMU  03-Sep.87   5.911.303  2,197.199         37.22          10        0.0      $0.0        VIA        11A       MMA         VIA  *    Ln
* 2017S DE COLCIUA S.A. A0.1                                        10,076,423  2,600,000       25.8;          10        0.0      $0.0        EtA        11/&     VIA          Sl  * 
*                                                                                                                                                                              C~a? yCWB
*                                                                                                                                                                                  *
* 3 - GITL  0;1027 CE CQS2T.ES *                                                                                                                                                   *
*                                                                                                                                                                                  *
* AJZISUAIS DE C1LMA S.A.                    ATSANIAS 23-Sep-68   8.749,595  1.830,980         20.9:          10         0.0      $0.0        150        $72      (28)        636 e
* CUZC5Z5 DE C01¶BA S.A.                       CABOCOL  16..v-76  69,609,626  2,039.465         2.9:        1,000        0.0      $0.0   133,873   $261,828  :136,879)   919,278  *
* cc2Lao  C?EAI  D1 SMA S.A.                     COSZDA 06-D.e-G8       66,100     13,220      20.0:        1,000      164.4      $0.0      _          ,                   1,916.2  *
* CA3  2SQA COW A2I S.A.                       C0C0. 31-Oct-83         300,000   147,000       49.0S        1,000      127.3      $0.0      3,500     $4,267       87       2,928 *
* C:ASIA CIGm        DE1 ASTUA=S 5.A.          C0ATL   10-Z b-69   1.692.701  1.013.828        59.9:       1,000     1,341.0      $0.0      2,432     $1,300    1,438       5,227 *
 *Ca= £5D A   Tl;USThIA DE1 T02 S.A.             CATSA 20.Dee-78  12.370.623  0,962.909       49.1?          5D       291.5      $0.0      2.381        S0       (74)      2,48S *
* C00101610   r.A.I    2O0716 S...          C00212701.61 31-Dec-70  32,807.160  5.109,360      15.6:         100    1,002.5       $0.0      6,883        SO       220      26,242 *  ,
* 0155 C UD U2A PMSqA DS T0L5 0.A.             TSSTOW   01-Sep-80   1.335.240  1,026,202      76.9%         100         0.0      $0.0        239        $o       (52)        177 *  cm  R
*  6A31CA Dl TELZYIS Cm MZ1H1A S..             ?ATE=taL  16-Abg-88     300.000    128,000      16.02       1,000       682.0      $0.0      2,480        So       431       2,516 *  f  X
* tE3D;C10I DE ?     =SO S.A.                1    t      22-Aug-89   3. 00.000   699.976       23.3:       1,000       400.0      $0.0      3.07     $1,034      (134)     6,577 *    )-4
* FMfLILlZABT   COLGU@1A05 S.A.                  =CI. 03-Wr-66  17.991,018    129.026           0.71          10        63.3      $0.0      2,172        $0      (127)      3,652 *
* oDO  r1 r1 Dl GOV=IS $.6.                      t.W.G. 0841or-32      260,337     15,437       S.9:       5.000         0.0      $0.0        214        SO       302       3,309 e*



*                                                                                                                                                                                        e
4                                                          TADLi S t 1371 S7ZESrMENS - IfANT PCACIAL DATA (Coat.)                                                                        *
4                              _
**                                                                                                                                                                                       *
*                                                            0173 0F       2AL           in   2 OF ; 1' oI  tS. VAL=E         LOANS              SLS    MEWORTS  fROUITS  nD ASSETS *
*                     Flp                           AMR. lSUFl5           SSARES      SamSES  C'RERSiP   OF SEASS   SCol Iull   USS 000
*                                                                                                                                                 S tti     oSsit mS   S lff       Si   *
*                                                                                                                                                                  ,*
* 77i:GO;7CO T FZA DE CAETAGM  5.A.            FRGOESCA i 0 9-D7c-79 102.876,226  4.874.433         4.7:         100       200.0      $0.0       5,426     $8,357       677       4,343  *
* l1SlU:  DE TEIZCtIOMCA;CW    S.A.               1E5SA 1    7-S*p-79     50.000       7.853       15.72       1,500        81.3      $0.0       1.977        $22        28       1.299  *
*    us0um qmwc& VLraLT S.A.                     P1TMLT  02-_ol-77   8,000.000  3.258,744          40.7:          10       350.7      $0.0       2,969       $472       244       2,226  *
* 8UAC2ATCS S Q28  S.A.                             q1U   30Jan-90  32,4644.973  9.765.001         30.12          10       102.4    $47.9        1.678         SO        54       1,183  t
* t55MAS DM C S1  S.A.                          M*IMSDS  06-Mar-09       375.000    112.500        30.02       1,000         0.0      $0.0        VIA         /A         /A         V/A  *
* 317L1  7=XZC7050  DM Cm1C  S.A.                 =AL1S  29.p?r-86       695.269       1,560        0.2Z       1,000         0.0      $0.0         "/A        S/A       /ia              *
* P2WZCS DE OCCE"TE S.A.                        PZOCAU31  59-J1-82   3.9SI.997       35,160        0.92         100         0.0      $0.0         1/A        Sl/         0         521  t
21VTh  S.A.                                   F0WWL  22-Jun-1            37,162       5,000       13.52       1,000         0.0      $0.0          26         $0         0          72  t
* PRD01036 CZ VMS CoCICHO 5          31A LIDO.   FOV;t 23-JUD-86         357.446     47.160        13.22       1.000        21.2      $0.0          21         SO       (15)        717  t
* ZEMLES ES3L S.A.                              TSP12      30-Dtc-74  68.106.282 22.089.534        32.42           5       390.7      $0.0       9,322     $2,298     1,713       7.556  *      0
* :     T2r=M     0Z tVhAfS DE Lh SAL S.A.       ?0ES0f  25-8sy-82  20.268.768  2.351,174          11.62         100       100.0      $0.0      6,273        $238       538      15,561  *
* 9151501*7LA PZ  TIS0 0 C.a.                    31i;RCV1  29-Sup-73     29i.869     30.000        10.3:      $1,000         0.0      $0.0      27.152         $0     3,715      26,866  *
*                                                                                                                                                                                        *
* C - SM     , GROUP of CCAQ  S                                                                                                                                                          e
*                                                                                                                                                                                        t
* ILCMUS DE CCLIIA LTO.                            1LCO   064"-70   2.867.2;1 2,867,211          100.01       1,000     5,439.8  $1,273.8     41,348        $251       567      29,229  -
* 002702*A0C101  £    CE  7eTD                       CA?  82-Jun-70       61.426      5,340         8.7;      $S,000         0.0      $0.0     36,674          $0    20,023     537,523  *
*      C W35X05 COLD VV5=51W0  5.6.            153li2S  25-Dec-67        813.750    272.153       33.62        1.000     1,089.8  S7.621.4    103,880    $14,123    11,026       67,952  *
* CUIO VAOSO S.11.                                  CM   17-Drc-79  11.559,321  5.512,803         67.7t          100         0.0 $21,012.5    74,335   $148.2.3    17,114       143,370  *
* 2r000102 n5  MAT3e 5.A.                          Pl220fi 24.ug-90 i31,413,664 30,864,930         23.5%          10         0.0      $0.0     53,257      56.,00     6,148     170,087  *
D O
* =.L                                                                                                                     11,850   $29,956    548,839   $469,355   (73,029)  2.068.873  *         D 
*                                                                                                                                                                                        *           1-4
*                                                                                                                                                                                        *    O C
0'



* 
*                                               AZlT B 4: COUPAI1ESN IE 1991-94 DIVESTITUBE P1'- N
* 
**
*                                                                                                     NUll. VALUE  NH,. VALUE  BOOt. VALUE. *
*                                                                 BAEDA   OF     IT        :     OF IFI   OF SHARES  OF IFI      OFII    *
*                     FI1FM                         ABBR.    IHVESTIWENT      SHARES      OWNERSHIP  Col$Ishare  INVEST1!ENT  INVESTMENT  *
*                                                                                                                  Col$ Hill.  Col$ Hill.  *
*                                                                                                                                         -...................................... *
*  ;- GEFAL G=UU? OF CM2&lE S 
* A7TESAFLIAS ZE CDZO1Blh S.A.                   ARESAIAS    23-Sep-68    1,830,980           20.92           10        18.3         18.3   *
9          BEZAT>*z DE GOLQMIA S.A.                QAI'.BmOOL    16-Sov-76    2,039,465        2.9Z        i,000     2,039.5      2,039.5   *
* COW3  CorWAA DE SED S.A.                          5:5SEOA    06-Dec-88        13,220       20.02        1,000        13.2         13.2   *
* CGH?AFm FPESqjEKA 3!1l3IA1m& S.A.                COFESCOL    31-Oct-83        147.000       49.0%        1,000       147.0        227.9   *
* CGUAJ`IA CG0MIM3I      DE ASTILLEEOS S.A.        O5NASTIL    10-Feb-69    1,013,828        59.9%        1,000     1,013.8      1,013.8   *
 CGII7LEJO AG7O?!10USTRiAL DZL TOLIKA S.A.           C4TSA    20-Dec-78    4,962,909         40.1%          50        248.1       272.4   *
* CG-PPOZ00IG  FlSh0CXIZRA FOPUV1R S.A..        ORFIPOFUItR    31-Dec-74    5,109,360         15.62          100       510.9        993.3   *
* EtESA CCIJM30A,h ?SKIUE,RA DE TL  S.,8           PESTOLU    01-Sep-80    1,026,202         76.9:          100       102.6         44.6   *
* FABFICA D£ TEXTfILES DEL TOLTMA S.A.             FATEXTSL    16-Aug-88       128,000        16.0:        1,000       128.0        128.0   t
9 cc.DZPACGGN DE TEXTILRFO-S S.A.                FEDEFFALTIE    22-Aug-89      699,976        23.3%       1,000        700.0       750.0   *
F  TILIZAN-S-4S COLCIA1OS3 S.A.                  FERTICOL    03-Ear-66       129,028         0.7:           10         1.3          1.3   *
* FCXBO SACICNAL DE GAPFASLAS S.A.                   F.N.G.   08-Mar-82         15,487         5.9%       5,000         77.4         77.7   *
*      WG0RI?¢C0 Y PESCA DE CARTnA^.h S.A.      FRZGOPESCA    29-Dec-79    4,874,433          4.7%          100       487.4       487.8   *
s FUSTRA E3 T_ LECmWSiGAC1ES 5.. SUTE.SA    17-Sep-79                            7,853        15.7:       1,500         L1.8         11.8   *
* ;1iSTMA, iMGCA FEWZ;ALZ S.A.                     PES!;WALT    02-Nav-77    3,258,744        40.7%           iO        32.6        36.4   *
* tno ATORiEc QuJaII S.A.                             QUIBI    30-Jan-90    9,765,001         30,12           10        97.7        97.7   *
* MAEI'rlLMSS  EL. CGArZE 5.A.                    HARITIF%S    06-Mar-89       112,500        30.0%       1,0v0        112.5        112.5   *
* s-ZALES FZ?=EGS5GS DSL CH0CO S.A.                 ?=TALES    29-Apr-86         1,560         0.2:       1,000          1.6          1.6   *
* FTXX7SRE0H EE OCClEESTS S.A.                   YFPJ1GH    0943u1-82           35,160         0.92         100          3.5         3.5   *
* PROCULTUTA 5.A.                                P-ROULTUPA    22-Jun-81         5,000        13.5:       1,000          5.0         5.0   *
*                                                                                                                                           *    w 
9                                                                                                                                           *   oo Z
tft X
9-
O C



*                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
*                                           TABLE 4: COMPANIES IN TEE 1991-94 DIVESTITURE PLAN (Cont.)                             *
*                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
*                                                                                              NOM. VALUE N. VALUE BOOK VALUE *
*                                                            DATE OF       IP1 F       OF IFI  OF SHARES    OF IFI       OF IFI   *
*                   F10                         ABBR.    INVESThET       SEaSms    OWNERSHIP  Col$Isbare  INVESTMENT INVES T  *
*                                                                                                          Col$ Mill. Col$ Mill. *
*                                                                                                                   , 
* F^.::@W-FA?> ZE vWOS COO-L-,O ARGEN7.TZA LTDA.    PROVICA    23-Jun-86   47,160       13.22       1,000       47.2        47.2   *
* TEXTIhLES ZEPINAL S.A.                       TEiXPINAL   30-Dec-74   22,089,534      32.42          5       110.4       214.8   *
* PMDUC7;ORA DE DE2iVADOS DE LA SAL S.A.        PRODESAL   25-Hay-82   2,351,174        11.6%        100       235.1       377.7   *
* VENEZOLANA DE IITEOGENS C.A.                  NITROVEN    29-Sep-73      30,000       10.32       n.a.        u.a.       247.0   *
t                                                                                                                                  *
*                                                                                                  '*
* 3 - SPEC:-I GRJUP OF COMPANIS                                                                                                    *
* ALCALIS DE COLOMIA LTDA.                         ALCO   04-Aug-70    2,867,211       100.0%       1,000    2,867.2    2,867.1   *
* CSOPJRACIOn ARDINA DE FOHENT                      CAP   02-Jun-70         5,340        8.7%      $5,000    15,185.1   15,185.1   *
t ?NUIRD.OS COLOMO VENEZOLVNOS S.A.           MONONROS    26-Dec-67       272,153       33.42       1,000      272.2       272.1   *
* CERFRO PATOSO S.A.                               CHSA   17-Dec-79    5,512,803        47.7%        100       551.3    2,639.8   *
* PRODUCTOR& DE PAPELES S.P.                      PROPAL   24-Aug-90   30,844,910       23.5%          10      308.4   29,627.0   *
* TOTAL                                                                                                       25,329      57,814   *
*                                                                                                                                  *
**
Note: Concesaon Salinas Is not included as it is not in IFI's investment portfolio.
(D r>'
o0<



-69-                             ANNEX V
Page 1 of 10
IFI: SPECIAL CASES IN THE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO
INTRODUCTION
1.          IFI has ownership interest in several large industrial companies. In
one of these cases-- Alcalis de Colombia, IFI has overall responsibility for the
operations  of  the  enterprise  and  is  now  actively  engaged  in  its
restructuring/privatization. In another case--Concesi6n Salinas, IFI manages the
enterprise on behalf of the Government. In three other cases--Propal, Cerro
Matoso and Monomeros, IFI has a large equity interest in the enterprises, but no
management responsibility for their performance. Each of these three enterprises
is undergoing significant expansion at present. Given IFI's new strategy, it is
inconsistent for IFI to indefinitely hold any of the above enterprises in its
investment  portfolio.  The  preferred  option  in most    of  these  cases  is
privatization. However, in the event this is not possible in the st-rt term, IFI
and the Government have agreed to establish an independent Trust Fund holding
entity to manage any of these enterprises that would not be divested by the
project's mid-term review.
PAPELCOL/PIPOPAL
2.          Papelcol is an integrated pulp and paper mill project begun in 1980
to produce printing and writing paper from bagasse. IFI, Federaci6n de Caf6 and
a group of private investors provided the seed capital for the venture. Most of
the project's financing was secured via export credits from France and loans from
French commercial banks, based upon the purchase of technology and equipment from
Cruesot Loire.   In 1982, with the financial collapse of the Gran Colombiana
Group, the major private investor in Papelcol, the equity investors failed to
provide their proportion of the financing for the project, and disbursements were
halted by the French commercial banks.
3.          In the years that followed, a series of financial restructuring and
recapitalizations occurred. In March 1987, with US$487.6 million invested, of
which US$100 million was equity and US$362.9 million was loans from French
commercial banks guaranteed by COPACE, Papelcol went into concordato (equivalent
to chapter 11 proceedings in the USA)> As of July 1988, the majority of the
shares were controlled by IFI, Fedecaft and Granfinanciera, subsequently
nationalized with the collapse of the Gran Colombiana Group, with the rest spread
between local and foreign private investors. French banks represented 93.6% of
credits to the company.
4.          In August 1988, IFI negotiated an agreement with the French banking
consortium to repurchase their loans to Papelcol of US$362.9 million for US$70.9



-70-
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 10
million.   IFI also repurchased loans  from other creditors at a substantial
discount.   The combination of loan repurchase and the loss of share value
represented by the coneordato left IPI as the only remaining investor in
Papelcol, with the investment value written down to approximately US$85 million.
5.          The plant was substantially completed but Papelcol never went into
operation. A study by an independent engineering firm, Chas. T. Main estimated
completion as follows: civil works 93.5%, mechanical 93%, piping 84%, electrical
74%, and instrumentation 38%. The plant is designed to produce 88,000 tons per
year of white paper.
6.          At  the present  time,  there  is a shortage  in the country of
approximately 30-50,000 tons per annum. Given the time it will take to come on
stream and reach rated capacity, it is projected that the potential surplus will
be narrowed to a reasonable level. The plant is now in the process of being
completed and is expected to come on stream in December 1991.
7.          IFI's intent was to sell Papelcol to private investors with the
objective of seeing the plant completed and operating efficiently. To that end,
IFI hired an internationally recognized investment banking firm, J.P. Morgan, to
prepare an offering for Papelcol.   The investment bank also organized a
comprehensive technical appraisal of the plant. The bid package went out to a
large number of pre-qualified bidders.   Due to the social and political
instability in Colombia, the lack of plant completion, and competitlon in the
domestic market from two established producers, there were relatively few bidders
for Papelcol.
8.          After receipt of offers from three qualified bidders, Papelcol's
assets were sold to Propal, a joint venture between International Paper Company
and W. R. Grace and Company, that has operated successfully end profitably in
Colombia since 1961. The sale of Papelcol to Propal on August 24, 1990 provided
for the following:
ti)         Merger of Papelcol'e assets with the assets of Propal;
(ii)        US$16,115,000 in cash at closing to IFI;
(iii)       US$30.5 million debt (quasi-equity) instrument issued by
Propal to IPI that can be sold at any time by IFI.
(iv)        23.5% of the combined equity of Propal/Papelcol, equivalent to
30,844,510 shares in Propal, which it can divest in various
tranches over the next 1-5 years.



-71-
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 10
(v)         Completion of the Plant, with IFI having an upside benefit
if the plant is completed within one year of the merger and
at a cost under US$40 million. Propal has estimated that the
plant will require US$40 million to complete and approximately
US$15 million in working capital once it is operational. It
is estimated that the plant will generate 300 direct and a
large number of indirect jobs.
9.           Morgan estimated the present value of the cash, quasi equity and
equity consideration received by IFI at between US$95.5 million to US$106
million.
10.          While the sale of Papelcol to Propal increases concentration in the
white paper segment of the paper industry, it does assure plant completion.
Moreover, it privatizes the operation and converts one of IFI's major liabilities
into an asset with strong "upside" potential. It is currently anticipated that
the plant will be completed in December, 1991 and will reach 70% of its rated
capacity by year end 1992.
11.          IFI's holdings  in Propal have  additional significance.    The
agreement with the Ministry of Finance to resolve IFI's obligation to the social
security system,  due to the problems associated with the Bonos  de Valor
Constante,  is predicated on the sale by IFI of its holdings  in Propal.
Alternatively, IFI is obliged to pay this obligation from other sources of
liquidity in four years from the signing of the accord with the Ministry of
Finance. From the project'e perspective the resolution of IFI's BVC problem has
always been a fundamental issue and this problem will only be completely resolved
when IFI actually pays its obligation to the social security fund.
12.         From IFI's perspective, however, there is clearly some theoretically
optimal time period when it anticipates that it can realize maximum value from
the sale of the debt instrument and the shares. In principle, this is after the
completion and running in period for the Papelcol plant and when Propal has
demonstrated that this additional capacity can be sold profitably. On the other
hand, actual market conditions such as the state of the Colombian economy,
political and social issues and the capital market will dictate the real
realization of net present value on the sale of the shares. In addition, the
sale of these shares is subject to restrictions under he Shareholders' Agreement,
dated 24 A%uocWD 1990, whicuk restricts IFI's sale of its shares in Propal to a
limit of 15.4 million shares after the "Start Up Date" (defined as the earlier
of commercial production of the Papelcol plant or three years from the August 24,
1990 Shareholders' Agreement). Additional share sales are ttien restricted to a
"Termination Data", 3.6 years after the start up date or 6.6 years after the
signing of the Shareholders' Agreement.
13.         As an agreement under the proposed project, by the mid-term review
IFI would be required to sell its debt instrument and the first 15.4 million
shares of Propal and apply the proceeds towards payment of its obligation to the
BVC Fund.  The mid-term review should be approxitnately two years after plant
completion, ample time for Propal to demonstrate its increased profitability with
the inclusion of Papelcol. In addition, IFI would be required to sell the second



-72-
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 10
15.4 million shares by December 31, 1994 or as soon as the abovementioned
Shareholders' Agreement would allow to do so after that date.
ALCALIS DE COLOMBIA
14.         Alcalis de Colombia is a chemical producer manufacturing a range of
chlor alkali chemicals large]- for industrial usages, as well as chlorine for
municipal water systems. The enterprise's primary processes produce caustic soda
and chlorine via the electrolytic reduction of salt and caustic soda or soda ash
via the Solvay process. The company also refines salt for Concesi6n Salinas and
imports caustic soda for which there is a deficiency of approximately
100-120,000 tons per annum in Colombia. Alcalis has two plant facilities, one
in Cartagena and the other in Betania, near Bogota. Both of these facilities are
quite old, with sub-scale, inefficient plant units. In 1988, Alcalis generated
a profit of Col$1,454 million. However, this was based upon imported caustic
soda, as each of the plant units lost money. Due to historically poor management
and negligent maintenance of the plants, there are corrosion and environmental
problems at these plants. There is also a history of labor militancy.
15.         Alcalis is a 99% owned subsidiary of IFI. Until recently, it was the
only substantial producer of chlor alkali products in the country. A competitor,
Productos Derivados de Sal (Prodesal), recently came on stream to supply the
paper industry with approximately 15,000 tons per annum of caustic soda. The
plant is also producing some 14,000 tons of chlorine which is reducing Alcalis'
share of the chlorine market. However, the country will still remain largely
deficient in caustic soda production.   Recent trade reforms have eliminated
Alcalis' monopoly rights to import caustic soda.
16.         In 1986, Alcalis went into q.oncordato, resulting in a restructuring
of its debt and a complete change in senior management. IFI was required to
refinance Col$4,519 million of Alcalis' debt at concessionary interest rates --
15% when inflation during this period averaged 25% and effective market interest
rates were in the range of 35-40% (as of December 1990, this debt was reduced to
Col$3,699 million). It was the intention of the new management to rehabilitate
the plant units and to make Alcalis a viable manufacturing fitM. A preliminary
technical assessment by Bank staff indicated that rehabilitation was technically
feasible. Given the natural barriers to importing substantial quantities of
chlorine into the country economically, it may even be financially and
economically viable.
17.       The short term prospect is that Alcalis' financial performance will
continue to deteriorate while it is attempting to restructure. For example,
during 1990 sales in constant terms declined by 9.2%, equivalent to sales in
1987. Exports were a meager US$250,000. Operating profits were Col$82.5 million
or just 0.2% of net sales, a reduction of Col$288.2 million from 1989. Net
profits of Col$567.3 million were provided by Col$338.5 million in extraordinary
profits from prior year adjustments. Overall net profit declined by 31.5% from



-73-
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 10
the prior year. The two plants operated at a loss of Col$1,305.9 millions, while
import activities generated a profit of Col$1,873.2 million.
18.         In order to determine its future direction, in 1989-90 Alcalis'
management contracted with Arthur D. Little, international consultants, to carry
out a strategic study to examine its problems and options in detail. The key
options considered were the eventual closure and liquidation of all or part of
Alcalis' operations, the rehabilitation of the plant units and comprehensive
restructuring. The rehabilitation and restructuring options were considered with
a view towards privatizing Alcalis.  Based on the consultant's findings and
recommendations, the Planning Department (DNP) presented to the Economic and
Social Policy National Council (CONPES), which approved it, a restructuring plan
to resolve Alcalis' problems. The main features of the restructuring proposal
are as follows:
(i)   The closure of the soda ash unit of the Betania plant, in accordance
with CAR's (regional environmental agency) recommendations.   The
soda ash unit ' by its own technology generates (and discharges into
the Bogota river) such a volume of pollutants (chlorides), that it
is unfeasible to continue operating that type of unit in Betania.
This closure would allow to bring the Betania plant in line with
CAR's environmental directive for the Bogota river.
(ii)  The reduction of the work force associated with this unit, as well
as other redundant workers at Betania and Cartagena and the closure
of the administrative headquarters in Bogota. (It is estimated that
total personnel reductions will need to reach 1,000 or almost 50% of
the work force, to make Alcalis efficient).
(iii) The creation of an independent Trust Fund to administer Alcalis
while it is restructured. IFI would transfer all of its shares in
Alcalis to the Trust Fund, which would own them until the company is
sold to the private sector.   The Fund would also guarantee the
existing pensions and provide funding for severance payment and
pension obligations incurred due to the restructuring.
(iv)  Denunciation "rupturelI of the collective bargaining agreement, to
reduce the large aage and pension burden of Alcalis.
(v)   To minimize  the amount  of restructuring  investments prior to
privatization, leaving to future owners the decision about
additional investments. The main rehabilitation investment under
the restructuring plan would consist of installing electrostatic
filters to comply with air emission regulations, for US$3.5 million.
Which utilizes the Solvay process to produce anhydrous sodium
carbonate (soda ash) from sodium chloride (common salt).



-74-
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 10
(vi) In the event a satisfactory renegotiation of the labor agreement is
not feasible, the plan recommends the liquidation of Alcalis.
(vii) Allow for the future disposition of Alcalis by privatizing the two
plants together or alternatively either plant or. its own.
(viii)  Creation of a facility or a program, Programa de Asistencia Socio
Laboral,  to retrain displaced workers  and to establish micro
enterprise programs, so that the workers can find job alternatives.
DNP has estimated that Alcalis through its own resource generation can fund
approximately 30% of the restructuring, the Government bridge loan or other
external source of funding would, therefore, be required to cover the rest. The
loan would be repaid through the privatization of Alcalis.
The estimated cost of the restructuring program prior to
privatization is as follows:
COL$ millions
Discharge of employees                      $5,087
Payment of pensions                          4,337
Rehabilitation investments                   2,232
Associated environmental controls               651
Contingency                                     879
TOTAL                          $13,186
19.     As an agreement under the proposed project, IFI and the Government would
privatize or liquidate one of the two plants by the mid term review, and
liquidate or privatize the other plant by the end of 1994.
CONCESION SALINAS
20.         Concesi6n Salinas is a salt mining and processing monopoly of the
State, operated by IFI as a concession. IFI has no ownership in the firm. Its
agreement with the Government is to manage it for 52 of the net profits, however,
as Concesi6n Salinas has consistently generated losses there has been no return
to IFI. There are two major locations where salt is mined in Colombia -- Nemecon
and Zipaquira. The latter supplies wet salt through a slurry pipe to Alcalis'
plant in Betania for both Alcalis' own industrial consumption and for refining
purposes into table salt for human and animal consumption.   There are also
facilities for recovering evaporated salt from the ocean, with the major facility
at Manaure. The market in Colombia for salt is 55% industrial usage, 34% human
and 112 animal consumption. The company produces diverse grades of salt -- salt



-75-
ANNE?X V
Page 7 o:E 10
granules, salt solution, refined salt ground or milled salt and evaporated salt.
All of the refined salt is processed by Alcalis de Colombia in its two plaits.
In 1988, the company produced 6,975,000 tons of salt versus consumption of
7,798,000 tons. It is estimated that the deficit is provided by illegal mining
and processing of salt by indigenous peoples near Manaure in the Guajira region
of Colombia.
21.         Continuous operating losses have left the Government with over Col$2
billion in loans to the company.   These losses have also impeded proper
maintenance of production facilities such as those at Nanaure, which at present
requires almost Col$8 billion to restore its productive capacity. In the last
few years the company has barely broken even on an operational basis, but has
been unable to cover capital costs.
22.         A program has yet to be develop for restructuring Concesi6n Salinas.
An option would be to contract out salt refining and commercialization, leaving
the mining process in the hands of the Government (perhaps municipal government).
Potentially Manuare could be organized as a cooperative under the control of the
indigenous peoples in the Guajira. However, these types of decision are sociaLlly
and politically difficult, especially as the salt monopoly has ancient (both
colonial and pre-Columbian) roots. The Bank would support a restructuring and
partial privatization of Concesi6n Salinas, based on a strategy acceptable to the
Bank.
23.         Restructuring of Concesifn Salinas also has implications for Alcalis.
Alcalis ref -nes all of the salt produced by Concesion Salinas destined for human
consumption and in other applications where refined salt is required. Refining
makes a substantial contribution to Alcalis operating performance.
24.       Under the proposed project, IPI and the Government would develop a
strategic plan for Concesion Salinas by the mid-term review similar in scope and
content to the one prepared for Alcalis. In addition, the concession would be
transferred to the Trust Fund entity in the event no other disposition was made
of the firm by the project mid-term review.
CERRO MATOSO
Background
25.    Cerro Matoso is a nickel mining and processing operation. The processing
enriches nickel to ferronickel. The nickel was discovered by the Richmond
Petroleum Company in 1956 and in 1963 Richmond and the Hanna Mining Company were
given a concession by the government to mine the nickel. In 1970, the concess:Lon
was modified and IFI entered the venture with a 1/3 share in the concession. IFI
established a separate corporation Econiquel to hold its share in the concession.
26.    In 1976, a feasibility study was prepared for the construction of a plant
to enrich or upgrade the nickel ore to ferronickel and in 1979 plant construct-ion



-76-
ANNEX V
Page 8 of 10
was started. The shareholders--Econiquel/IFI (45%), Billiton (Shell Oil) (35%)
and Hanna (20%), formed Cerro Iatoso S.A. Once the plant was completed in 1982,
Hanna provided technical services supporting operation of the mine and the plant
and Billiton was responsible for marketing and sales worldwide for the plants
output. Virtually all of the production is exported.
ProductionlTechnical
27.     The plant started its running in October of 1982. It soon became clear,
in the course of 1983, that the plant had significant technical problems. The
chemical composition (excess acidity) of the ore being refined or processed
caused the electric furnace to malfunction, occasioning closure for of up to
three months in duraticn. In 1984 the plant produced 36 million pounds of nickel.
In 1985, the plant once again bad major technical problems, forcing technical
modification to resolve its production problems. In 1986, the plant was able to
produce 41.9 million pounds of ferronickel or 84% of capacity. Nominal plant
capacity was estimated at 50 million pounds per year with ore containing 3.2%
nickel, however, the mined ore contained 3.1% nickel content thereby lowering the
rated capacity of the plant.
Market/Prices
28.       The ferronickel produced by the plant has a content of 40-45% nickel,
with Cerro Matoso supplying 3% of the world's market of ferronickel. The product
is used in steel alloys and specialty steels, foundries and in copper alloys.
Canada and Indonesia are the major world producers with 30 % and 25 X world
market share, respectively. There are 20 major producers at present in the world.
29.     Nickel, as all other commodities, is subject to severe market cycles.
From 1984-1986, the world market price for ferronickel averaged US$1.60 a pound,
while Cerro Matoso's cost of production was US$1.20 per pound and its total cost
per pound was US$2.80, generating significant operating losses on a full
absorption basis. By 1987, world market prices had risen, allowing Cerro Matoso
to generate a profit from operations, howevert its debt service costs produced
an overall loss. By 1988 nickel prices had risen to almost US$7.00 per pound,
allowing the company to generate a substantial profit.   While prices have
stepped down since 1988, from US$6.00 to approximately US$4.50 in 1990, in the
meanwhile, Cerro Matoso has lowered its cost of production to approximately
US$1.00 per pound, making it one of the lowest cost producers in the world.
Financial Performance
30.     The Cerro Matoso project was finished in October of 1982 at a total cost
of US$425.6 million dollars, financed 47% by equity and 53% by detJt. During the
course of construction and due to the technical and market difficulties
experienced in the early years of operation, Cerro Matoso had to be refinanced
two times--in July, 1982 and February, 1987. Additional capital was provided by
IFI and Billiton (US$71.1 millions), shareholders' loans (US$64.6 millions) and
exteruvl credits--Chase (US$30.0 millions). The Government, through the Ministry



-77-
A&NNEK V
Page 9 of 10
of Finance, was obliged to replace the World Bank as a creditor when the World
Bank called on its guarantee in the course of the second refir.ancing.
31.       The company was able to avoid technical bankruptcy, by a financial
restructuring which at the same time reduced the nominal value of its shares,
revalued its fixed assets, and reorganized the company's debt of US$253.8
million.
32.      The company's cumulative losses exceeded US$130 million by the end of
1987; however, with the increased productivity of the plant in 1988 and the rise
in world nickel prices starting in that same year, the company has been
profitable ever since. In 1990, the company produced 40.6 million pounds of
nickel, increasing by 8.6% from the prior year.   Exports totaled US$148.1
million, 7% less than in 1989 due to the fall in nickel prices. The company
generated an operating profit of US$69 million, equivalent to a return on sales
of 472, and a net profit of US$34 million.
33.      During 1990, its external debt was reduced to US$154.7 million. It is
anticipated that most of the external debt will be repaid as of the end of 1991.
At the end of 1990 the debt/equity ratio was 54% debt, inclusive of domestic
debt. Cerro Matoso's equity has increased from a negative COL$3,929.7 million to
a positive COL$66,008.4 million at the end of 1990. In addition, in 1939 Shell
Petroleum Company purchased Hanna's interest, so that Shell now owns 52.3% of the
company and IFI 47.7%. Also in 1991, at the termination of Billiton's exclusive
commercial agreement, it was agreed that Cerro Matoso and Billiton would form a
joint venture commercial company to market and sell the company's output.
34.         Cerro Matoso is planning a large expansion of its processing
operations through the addition of a second electric arc furnace, adding 30
million pounds of capacity.   The investment will cost approximately US$115
million.
35.         The major issue is what role should the Government continue to play
in Cerro liatoso in the future. As a significant natural resource of the country,
there is basis for the State holding some ownership as a way to share in the
rents of the natural resource.   The current ownership structure  (a mixed
ownership of a joint venture between the managing multinational with 52.3% of the
shares and the State with the remaining 47.7%) does not seem to be inconsistent
with the principles of economic liberalization guiding the ongoing public sector
reform in Colombia.
36.         A second issue is whether IFI should continue holding Cerro Matoso,
should the Government choose to remain as an investor in the company. Given
IFI's new investment policies and Cerro Matoso's place in IFI's portfolio, it is
clear that permanent holding bv IFI as an agent for the Government is not
possible, and thus an alternative mechanism would have to be utilimed for the
State to hold this investment.
37.         A third, and related issue, is what would be the appropriate timing
for possible privatization of Cerro Matoso, should the Government decide not to
remain as an investor in the company. The expansion project is expected to be



-78-
ANNEX V
Page 10 of 10
commissioned by mid-1993. Consequently, and factoring in at least one year of
demonstrated operational results, the optimal timing for possible sale of the
State participation would not occur before mid to late 1994.
38.    Taking into account the above issues, as an agreement under the proposed
project, IFI and the Government would prepare by June 30, 1993 a strategic
analysis of the investment in Cerro Matoso, including a review of the alternative
ownership structures to be considered for the company. In the event IFI would not
have sold its interest, then Cerro Matoso would be transferred by the mid-term
re-view to a separate Trust Fund Account.
MONOEROS
39.    In 1967, IFI, Ecopetrol, the Petrochemical Institute of Venezuela and the
Dutch firm Stamicarbon N.V. established Monomeros with the objective of producing
caprolactim (a raw material for synthetic fiber production), simple and complex
fertilizers and other industrial chemicals. The plant came on stream in 1973 and
after initial running in problems, at present it is considered an efficient
petrochemical operation. Its present shareholders are -- IFI (33.4%), Pequiven
(33.4%), Ecopetrol (13.8%), Plhsticos Petroquimica C.A. (13.8%) and Naamloze
Vennootachap (D.S.M) (5.6%).
40.     Monomeros produces a variety of products ranging from 27,000 tons per
year of caprolactim, 400,000 tons of complex fertilizers (NPKs) to 100,000 tons
per year of ammonium sulfate. At present, the company contemplates an expansion
to produce 120,000 tons per annum of TPA at an estimated investment cost of
US$150 million.
41.     Monomeros is profitable and has grown steadily over the last several
years. In 1990, net profits reached Col$11,026 million (US$22 &nillion), an
increase of 56% over 1989. The company exported US$14 million in 1990.
42.     As with Cerro Matoso, immediate privatization of Mon6meros may not be
feasible. The company is a joint venture with Venezuela and any decision to
divest would require prior consultation with and agreement from the Venezuelan
Government. Moreover, the company is in the middle of a planned expansion
program, making divestiture more difficult. Given the special characteristics
of Mon6meros, it has been agreed under the proposed project that IFI and the
Government will prepare by June 30, 1993 a strategic evaluation of their holding
in the comparvv, and proposals for alternative ownership structures. If by the
mid-term re iew IFI would not have divested this holding, then its shares in
Mon6meros would be transferred to a separate Trust Fund Account.



-79-
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
IFI FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Table 1: IFI BALANCE SHEETS
(US$ millions)
_- December 31 ---------------------
1985       1986        1987       1988        1989       1990
Assets
Cash and Temporary
Investments                   37.20      48.18       47.07      39.11        6.02      16.14
Investments (Net)              198.43      191.36      73.50      84.84       96.19     131.05
Loans and Discounts
(Net)                       213.81     217.42      196.36     197.85     255.93      208.83
Fixed Assets                     0.25        0.30       0.43       0.79        2.62       2.I:
Deferred and Other
Assets a/                   16.76       161.38     180.52     172.46      172.66     138.72
Total Assets                   616.45      618.63     497.88     495.05      533.42     496.89
Liabilities and Canital
Liabilities                    559.53      558.26     414.78     403.48      367.88     334.67
Capital and Retained
Earnings                      56.92      60.37       83.10      91.57Z    165.5       162.22
Total Liabilitieo
and Capital                  616.45     618.63      497A18     495.05      533.42     496.89
sI Includes BVC assets (US$160.95 million in 1989 and US$124.07 million in 1990).



-80-
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
Table 2:  IFI INCOME STATMEMNTS
(US$ millions)
1985       1986        1987       1988        1989       1990
Onerating Revenues
Interest & Commissions           26.16      23.37       23.82       28.20       26.62     30.13
Income from Investments           3.31        5.10       7.48        3.03        3.98      4.10
Gains from Sales of
Investments                                                        0.31       42.29      7.94
Other Income                      3.15        2.33       1.97        3.37        3.55      0.72
Subtotal                      32.62      30.80       33.27       34.92       76.44     42.89
Operating Expenses
Interest & Commissions           21.95       22.09      15.15       15.77       23.07     15.54
Provision for Doubtful Loans    8.80          2.15       3.40       12.57        8.73      4.17
Provision for Investments                                            0.01        3.39      8.84
Loss from Sales of Investments                                                  13.15
Other                            _3.10        0.00       5.91        0.00        0.00      0.00
Subtotal                       33.85      24.24       24.46       28.35       48.35     28.55
Gross Operating Income (Loss)  (1.23)         6.57       8.81        6.57       26.09     14.35
Administrative Expenses          (6.03)    (6.22)       (6.07)      (7.00)      (8.18)    (9.86)
Non-Operatiiig Income (Net)                                          2.61       12.44     49.21
Losses on BVC Fund                                                             (28.82)  j_1k001
Profit (Loss) Before Taxes       (7.26)      0.35        2.74        2.18        3.54     (7.31
Income Taxes                     (0.68)    (1.24)       (2.65)      (1.98)      (2.04)    (2.42
Net Profit (loss)                (7.94)    (0.89)        0.09        0.20        1.50      (9.73)



-81-                    ANREX V-I
Page 3 of 3
Table 3: BONOS DE VALOR CONSTANTE
BALANCE SHEET
(US$ millions)
1987       1988         1989        1990
Assets
Cash and Investments                        30.76       11.70        1.52        5.93
Loans, Discotnts and
Interest Receivable                        42.56       56.40       50.11       30.89
Other Assets                                 6.07        4.80       18.92        0.66
Amounts Due from Govt.
and IFI Pund Losses to
Date                                       154.10     160.20      166. 11     195.18
Total Assets                           233.49      233.12      236.66      232.65
Liabilities
Long-Term Debt                             231.53      228.70      218.49      230.42
Other Liabilities                             1.96       4.42       18.17      _2.23
Total Liabilities                      233.49      233.12      236.66      232.65



-82-
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
IFI FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Table 1:  Balance Sheets (As of Dec. 31)
(US$ millions)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Assets
C.sh and Temporary             16       13       14       16      17       17       17
Investments
Investments (Net)             131       73       51      26       27       27       26
Loan Portfolio (Net)          209      246     338      418      482      518      523
Other Assets a/               141       21       38      38       38       37       36
Total Assets            497     353      441      498     564      599      602
Liabilities and Equty
Deposits and Bonds             22       44       83     106      117       124    128
Central Bank Discounts         10       14       16      17       18       19       20
Foreign Banks                  53       65       97     130      155      151      142
World Bank Loan                --       --       25      50       75      100      100
Other Liabilities b/          250       76       70      79       80       84       89
Total Liabilities          335      199     291      382      445      478     479
Equity                        162      154      150     116      119      121      123
Total Liabilities
and Equity           497      353      441      498     564      599      602
a/ Includes BVC assets (loans) in 1990; includes Trust Fund from 1993 onwards
b/ Includes BVC deficit in 1990
Note: 1990 figures are actual.



-83-
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
IFI FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Table 2: Income Statements
For Year Ended December 31
(US$ millions)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Revenues
Interest and Commissions
Earned                  30.13   53.69   74.10   89.88  106.50  114.32  121.58
Investment Income           4.10    4.90    3.20    8.21    8.75   10.98    9.96
34.23   58.59   77.29   98.09  115.25  125.30  131.54
Exyenses
Interest and Commissions
Expense                (15.54) (32.83) (42.03) (54.10) (63.93) (67.70) (71.27)
Financial Margin           18.69   25.76   35.27   43.98   51.32   57.61   60.28
Provisions and write-off (13.01)  (3.74)  (8.93)  (9.58) (10.25)  (9.38)  (8.22)
Profit from sale of
investments and other
operating income (net)   8.66   20.08    9.58   (0.86)   6.22    6.02    5.69
Gross Operating Income    14.34   42.09   35.91   33.55   47.29   54.25   57.75
Cost of Administration
and Reorganization       (9.86)  (8.23)  (6.72)  (6.83)  (6.94)  (7.14)  (7.52)
Net Operating Income        4.48   33.86   29.19   26.72   40.35   47.10   50.22
BVC deficit and other
non-operating income
and expense             (11.79)  (5.34)   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Profit before taxes         (7.31)  28.53   29.19   26.72   40.35   47.10   50.22
Taxes                       (2.42)  (7.53)  (8.08)  (6.29) (10.27) (11.82) (12.98)
Profit after taxes          (9.73)  21.00   21.10   20.43   30.08   35.28   37.25
Note: 1990 figures are actual.



-84-                               ANNEX VII
Page 3 of
IFI FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Table 3: Financial Indicators
(As a Percentage of Average Assets)
1990    199:    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Revenues
Interest and Commissions
Earned                    5.85   12.63   18.66   19.14   20.06   19.66   20.25
Investment Income            0.80    1.15    0.81    1.75    1.65    1.89    1.66
6.65   13.79   19.47   20.89   21.70   21.55   21.91
Expenses
Interest and Commissions
Expense                  (3.02)  (7.73) (10.59) (11.52) (12.04) (11.64) (11.87)
Financial Margin             3.63    6.06    8.88    9.37    9.66    9.91   10.04
Provisions and write-off  (2.53)  (0.88)  (2.25)  (2.04)  (1.93)  (1.61)  (1.37)
Profit from sale of
investments and other
operating income (net)   1.68    4.72    2.41   (0.18)   1.17    1.04    0.95
Gross Operating Income       2.78    9.90    9.05    7.15    8.91    9.33    9.62
Cost of Administration
and Reorganization        (1.91)  (1.94)  (1.69)  (1.46)  (1.31)  (1.23)  (1.25)
Net Operating Income         0.87    7.97    7.35    5.69    7.60    8.10    8.36
BVC deficit and other
non-operating income
and expense               (2.29)  (1.26)   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Profit before taxes         (1.42)   6.71    7.35    5.69    7.60    8.10    8.36
Taxes                       (0.47)  (1.77)  (2.04)  (1.34)  (1.93)  (2.03)  (2.16)
Profit after taxes          (1.89)   4.94    5.32    4.35    5.67    6.07    6.20
Memo Items
Average Equity                164      158      152     133   117.5       120      122
Return on equity (%)        (5.93)  13.29   13.88   15.36   25.60   29.40   30.53
Note: 1990 figures are actual.



ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 3
-85-
COST OF MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ 000)
1991     1992     1993      1994    Total
Hardware
Upgrade of processing mainframe                             242       160      402
Upgrade of development mainframe          16                172                188
Workstations                              45        45       45        95      230
Networks and communications               29       126       10                165
Other                                     93                 15                108
Sub-total                                  183       171      484      255      1093
Software
Purchase of packages                      95       65                          160
Internal developmt and maintenance        15       62        77       30       184
External development and support          15       30        15        15       75
Other                                               8                   7       15
Sub-total                                  125       165       92        52      434
Library and Records
Library                                             70       75                145
Microfiche system                                   54       61        17      132
Optical Disk system                                43        37                 80
Other                                      2         4        6         7       19
Sub-total                                    2       171      179        24      376
TOTAL MIS PROJECT COST                     310       507      755       331     1903



ANNEX VIII
-86-                         Page 2o 
TRAINING PROGRAM (1991-1994)
1991     1992     1993      1994    TOTAL
I. MANAGEMENT LEVEL
Number of Hours:
- Legal Topics               554      149       111       75       889
- Financial Topics          2387     1869      1284     1175      6715
- Commercial Topics         1090      574       866      866      3396
- Administrative Topics      228      186       280      280       974
- Info. Systems Topics        75        0         0        0        75
- Special Topics             334      448       516      516      1814
TOTAL                     4668     3226      3057     2912    13863
Cost: (US$)
- Legal Topics             8,310    2,347    1,836    1,302   13,795
- Finaneial Topics        35,805   29,437   21,237   20,398  106,877
-Commercial Topics        16,350    9,041   14,324   15,034   54,748
-Administrative Topics   3,420    2,930    4,631    4,861   15,842
- Info. Systems Topics    1,125         0         0        0    1,125
- Special Topics           5.010    7.056    8.535    8.958   29.558
TOTAL                   70,020   50,810   50,563   50,552  221,945
II. S'eAFF LEVEL
Number of Hours:
- Legal Topics              2080     1250       690      690      4710
- Financial Topies          6730     6730      6375     6660    26495
- Commercial Topics         4020     4020      4020     4020    16080
- Administrative Topics    3560      3560      3560     2420    13100
- Info. Systems Topics      2710     1740      1740     1740      7930
- Special Topics            2835     1755    _1755    1755        81Q
TOTAL                    21935    19055    18140    17285    76415
Cost: (US$)
- Legal Topics             9,360    5,913    3,422    3,595   22,290
- Financial Topies        30,285   31,833   31,620   34,699  128,437
- Commercial Topics       18,090   19,015   19,939   20,944   77,988
- Administrative Topics  16,020   16,839   17,658   12,608   63,125
- Info. Systems Topics   12,195    8,230    8,630    9,065   38,121
- Special Topics          12.758    8,301    8.705    9.144   38.907
TOTAL                   98,708   90,130   89,974   90,055  368,867
III,TOTAL -TRAINING COST (I+II)
- Legal Topics            17,670    8,259    5,258    4,897   36,084
- Financial Topics        66,090   61,270   52,857   55,097  235,314
- Commercial Topice       34,440   28,055   34,263   35,978  132,736
- Administrative Topics  19,440   19,768   22,289   17,469   78,966
- Info. Systems Topics   13,320    8,230    8,630    9,065   39,246
- Special Topics          17,768   15,357   17,239   18,101   68,465
TOTAL (US$)            168,728  140,940  140,537  140,607  590,812



ANNEX VIII
-87-                         Page 3 of 3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
(US$ 000)
1991      1992      1993      1994    Total
ManagementInformation Systems
Computer Hardware                       183       171       484       255      1093
Computer Software                      125        165        92        52       434
Library and Records System                2       171       179        24       376
Subtotal                               310       507        755       331      1903
Traning
Executive Level                          70        51        51        51       223
Operations Level                        99         90        90        90       369
Scholarships                            40         40        40        40       160
Subtotal                               209       181        181       181       752
Studies
IPI Privatization                                           180                 180
Cerro Matoso                                                250                 250
Monomeros                                                   250                 250
Salinas                                            90                            90
Other Unidentifed                                 100       100       100       300
Subtotal                                  0       190       780       100      1070
Other
Tozal Quality Mgmt. System             150        150        30        30       360
External assistnce for implem.          50        120        90        60       320
Subtotal                               200       270        120        90       680
:=: - --- -  
SUBTOTAL                               719      1148      1836        702      4405
Contingencies (5Z)                      36         57        92        35       220
TOTAL                                  755      1205       1928       737      4625



-88-                               ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 13
THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
STRATEGIC EVALUATION OF THE INVESTMENT BY THE INSTITUTO DE
FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL IN CERRO MATOSO S.A.
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR AN INVESTMENT ADVISOR
I. BACKGROUND
1.        The  Instituto  de  Fomento  Industrial  (IFI)  intends  to hire  an
Investment Advisor to evaluate its holdings in Cerro Matoso, S.A.
2.        IFI is a development institute founded over 50 years ago to make
investments in Colombian industry. In 1963, the Institute was given permission
to also lend money and since then has been viewed primarily as a financial
institution. In 1989, IFI began a process of restructuring, with the assistance
of the World Bank, which has involved the divestiture and privatization of a
number of its investment portfolio holdings. The restructuring also involved,
inter alia, the clean up of its balance sheet, reorganization and the definition
of clear policies under which IFI should operate.
3.        Cerro Matoso is one of IFI's largest investments.  It operates as a
joint venture with Shell Petroleum Co. to refine nickel into ferronickel.
Depending on the world market price of nickel, the company's value has been
estimated previously at US$ 250-300 million. Cerro Matoso's size relative to
IFI's other holdings and relative to IFI as a whole, implies that this investment
merits special consideration and evaluation. In fact, since its inception there
has been a special analysis team within IFI responsible for evaluating Cerro
Matoso's performance and investment opportunities, even though the enterprise
operates as a fully autonomous company.
4.        Cerro Matoso has recently brought on stream a major expansion of its
capacity to refine ferronickel. After a difficult start up period, the company
is now financially stable and one of the lowest cost producers in the world. In
1992, the company had sales of _ _   and generated a net profit of _
exports were          thousand tonnes of ferronickel or US$        millions.  (A
more complete description of the company and its financial performance over the
last five years is provided in Annex A attached hereto).
5.        Given the stability of the firm and its relative maturity, IFI and the
Government through the Ministry of Development wishes to evaluate its holdings
in Cerro Matoso and the potential for divesting all or part of its shares in the
enterprise. Alternatively, IFI has given consideration to transferring this
investment to an industrial holding company, as the size and complexity of Cerro
Matoso make it incompatible whit IFI's investment portfolio strategy and its
policy guidelines for rotation of its portfolio.



-89-
ANNEX _IX
Page 2 of 13
II. SCOPE OF THE ASSIGNMENT
6.        IFI would have the responsibility for the divestiture, however, the
decision to divest would involve the Ministry of Development and ultimately
CONPES, the highest economic advisory body in the country.   Therefore, in
evaluating IFI's holdings in Cerro Matoso, the advisor would have to consult with
the Ministries of Development and Finance, and the Planning Agency (Departamento
Nacional de Planeaci6n).
7.        The assignment will include the following scope of work:
A    a brief  diagnostic  of Cerro Matoso's  historic  and  current
performance including its returns to IFI as an investor.
    a projection of the future performance of Cerro Matoso, which by
definition implies a view of the world nickel market and the
outlook for ferronickel prices. (Note: it is assumed that Cerro
Matoso's ultimate value will be heavily influenced by the long
term outlook for nickel and the company's competitive position
within this market). It is likely that the Investment Advisor
will want to call on independent technical expertise in the non-
ferrous metals industry to assess the market outlook, however,
the advisor should take advantage of information available
through Billiton, IFI's investment group dedicated to Cerro
Matoso and the commercial joint venture operated by Cerro Matoso
and Billiton for understanding of the market and Cerro Matoso's
competitive situation.
    an independent valuation of IFI's shareholdings in Cerro Matoso
based on complete or partial divestiture of its holdings.
*    a strategy for divestiture, including how to approach Shell on
this issue and the appropriate timing of a sale.
*    alternatively, the Advisor should consider the advantages to the
Government and IFI of maintaining this investment, given that the
nickel deposits are a natural resource of the country and the
concession agreement will terminate in -       (year).  Moreover,
the company has now finished a major expansion, it has repaid its
previous problematic external debt and should be in a good
position to pay substantial dividends to its investors.
III. TIME SCHEDULE AND REPORTING
8.        The assignment should be completed in approximately two months in two
phases. This first phase is the diagnostic phase and should provide IFI with the
Advisor's overall assessment of Cerro Matoso and alternative



-90-
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 13
valuations.   The second phase should result in the development of a clear
analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of divestiture and specific
recommendation to IFI an4 the Government on whether or not to divest. If the
recommendation is to divest, then the Advisor should provide IFI with an
implementation program on how to proceed.
IV. REMUNERATION
9.        IFI intends to reaunerate the Advisor through a fixed consulting feef
in addition to payment for out of pocket ezpenses. Should the assignment proceed
to phase three then a success fee would be appropriate from the proceeds of the
sale.
V. SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS
10.       Your firm's proposal should include the following information:
(a)  A brief presentation of the firm and its experience in privatization,
mergers and acquisitions for mining/refining companies.
(b)  Your experience in Colombia.
(c)  Curricula Vitae of the members of the team that will be directly
handling the assignment.   Please note that each bidding firm has
established its excellence in the investment banking industry and
therefore has senior people with great experience. While they are of
interest to us in principle, the proposals must include the CV's of
the team proposed for the assignment.
(d)  A  detailed approach and timetable proposed  for undertaking the
assignment.
(e)  A sealed envelope separate from the technical proposal containing your
price proposal. Please include the manner in which fees and expenses
would be determined and an estimate of their total amount.
(N.B. that a separate letter, Invitation to Consultants, would need to be
prepared near the time of bidding spelling out evaluation criteria, submission
dates, bid evaluation dates and expected start up dates for the a3signment.)



ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 13
THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
STRATEGIC EVALUATION OF THE INVESTMENT BY THE INSTITUTO DE
FONENTO INDUSTRIAL IN MONOIEROS COLOMBO VENEZOLANOS S.A. E.M.A.
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR AN INVESTMENT ADVISOR
I. BACKGROUND
1.        The  Instituto  de  Foraento  Industrial  (IFI)  intends  to hire  an
Investment Advisor to evaluate its holdings in MONONEROS.
2.        IFI is a development institute founded over 50 years ago to make
investments in Colombian industry. In 1963, the Institute was given permission
to also lend money and since then has been viewed primarily as a financial
institution. In 1989, IFI began a process of restructuring, with the assistance
o' the World Bank, which has involved the divestiture and privatization of a
number of its investment portfolio holdings. The restructuring also involved,
inter alia, the clean up of its balance sheet, reorganization and the definition
of clear policies under which IFI should operate.
3.        MONONEROS is one of IFI's largest investments.  It operates as a joint
venture with the Government of Venezuela through a state owned petrochemical
holding, El Instituto Venezolano Petroquimico; other shareholders are Ecopetrol,
Colombia's state owned oil company and Stamicarbon, N.V., the original supplier
of technology. MONOMEROS produces a range of chemical products - caprolactim,
complex fertilizers (NPKs), ammonium sulfate and potassium nitrate.   It has
recently brought on stream a major expansion to produce 120,000 tonnes per annum
of T.P.A.  The major company has grown strongly over the years and has been
consistently profitable,  A more detailed description of the company and its
performance is included herein in Annex A.
4.        Given the stability of the firm and its relative maturity, IFI and the
Government through the Ministry of Development wishes to evaluate its holdings
in MONOMEROS and the potential for divesting all or pert of its shares in the
enterprise.  Alternatively, IFI has given consideration to transferring this
investment to an industrial holding company, as the size and complexity of
MONOMEROS makes it incompatible with IFI's investment portfolio strategy and its
policy guideiines for rotation of its portfolio.
II. SCOPE OF THE ASSIGNMENT
5.        IFI would have the responsibility for the divestiture, however, the
decision to divest would involve the Ministry of Development and ultimately
CONPES, the highest economic advisory body in the country.   Therefore, in
evaluating IFI's holdings in MONOMEROS, the Advisor would have to consult with
the Ministries of Development and Finance, and the Planning Agency (Departamento
Nacional de Planeaci6n).



-92-
ANNEX IX
Page 5 of 13
6.        The assignment will include the following scope of works
U    a brief diagnostic of MONOMEROS' historic and current performance
including its returns to IFI as and investor.
kV   A projection of the future performance  of MONOMEROS,  which by
definition implies a view of the world petrochemical and fertilizer
markets, particularly in light of the recent trade liberalization
which  has  occurred  in  both  Colombia  and  Venezuela.    A  key
considerdtion is how competitive MONOMEROS is presently and is likely
to be in the future. It is likely that the Investment Advisor will
want to call on independent technical expertise in the petrochemical
and fertilizer industries to assess the market outlook, however, the
advisor should take advantage of information available through
MO)NOMEROS itself and IFI's investment department.
*  An independent valuation of IPI's shareholdings in MONOMEROS based on
complete or partial divestiture of its holdings in the company.
  A strategy for divestiture, including how to approach the Venezuelan
Government on this issue and the appropriate timing of a sale.
Thought should be given to flotation of the company in the capital
markets df both countries and potentially in other markets such as in
New York.
*  Alternatively,  the Advisor should consider the advantages to the
Gover-iment .nd IFI of maintaining this investment, given that the
venture  is  a  successful  example  of  bilateral  cooperation  and
integration. Moreover, the company has now finished a major expansion,
and should be in a good position to pay substantial dividends to its
investors.
III. TIME SCHEDULE AND REPORTING
7.        The assignment should be completed in approximately two months in two
phases. This first phase is the diagnostic phase and should provide IFI with the
Advisor's overal' assessment of MONOMEROS and alternative valuations. The second
phase sEould result in the development of a clear analysis of the edvantages and
disadvantages of divestiture and specific recommendation to IFI and the
Government on whether or not to divest. If the recommendation is to divest, then
the Advisor should provide IFI with an implementation program on how to proceed.



-93-
ANNEX IX
Page 6 of 13
IV. REMUNERATION
8.        IFI intends to remunerate the Advisor through a fixed consulting fee,
in addition to payment for out of pocket expenses. Should the assignment proceed
to phase three then a success fee would be appropriate from the proceeds of the
sale.
V.  SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS
9.        Your firm's proposal should include the following information:
v  (a)  A brief presentation of the firm and its experience in privatization,
mergers and acquisitions for petrochemical companies.
(b) Your experience in Colombia.
(c)  Curricula Vitae of the members of the team that will be directly
handling the asa4gnwent.   Please note that each bidding firm has
established its -cellence in the investment banking industry and
tb.erefore has senior people with great experience. While they are of
interest to us in principle, the proposals must include the CY's of
the team proposed for the assignment.
(d) A detailed approach and timetable proposed for undertaking the
assignment.
(e) A sealed envelope separate from the technical proposal containing your
price proposal. Please include the manner in which fees and expenses
would be determined and an estimate of their total amount.
(N.B. that a separate letter, Invitation to Consultants, would need to be
prepared near the time of bidding spelling out evaluation criteria, submission
dates, bid evaluation dates and expected start up dates for the assignment.)



-94-
ANNEX IX
Page 7 of 13
THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA AND THE INSTITUTO DE FONENTO INDUSTRIAL
RESTRUCT'URING STUDY OF CONCESION SALINAS
LRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A CONSULTANT
I. BACKGROUND
1.        The Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI) intends to hire a consultant
to assist it in restructuring Concesi6n Salinas. In addition, the consultant
will need to evaluate the options for IFI and the Colombian Government to
separate Salinas' operations from IFI and potentially grant a concession to the
private sector for all or part of Salinas' operations.
2.        IFI is a development institute founded over 50 years ago to make
investments in Colombian industry. In 1963, the Institute was given permission
to also lend money and since tha¢a has been viewed primarily as a financial
institution. In 1989, IFI began a process of restructuring, with the assistance
of the World Bank, which has involved the divestiture and privatization of a
number of its investment portfolio holdings. The restructuring also involved,
inter alia, the clean up of its balance sheet, reorganization and the definition
of clear policies under which IFI should operate. The resolution of the problems
associated with managing Concesifn Salinas is part of IFI's restructuring
process.
3.        Concesi6n Salinas is a government-owned salt mining monopoly that IFI
manages on behalf of the Government. Another company, owned by IFI, Alcalis de
Colombia, actually refines the salt, while Salinas in turn handles all of the
commercial aspects of the business.   Salinas has salt mining operations in
Nemecon and Zipaquira. The later delivers salt via a slurry pipe to Alcalis'
plant in Betania for its owm chemical production and to be refined into salt fol
human and animal consumption.   Salinas also has facilities for recovering
evaporated salt from the ocean. The largest of these is at Manaure. Alcalis's
plant in Cartagena refines salt from Manaure. However, this salt is transported
at high cost to the Cartagena facility and is operationally and economically
inefficient for both parties. In 1988, the company produced approximately 7.0
million tons of salt versus an apparent consumption of 7.8 million tons. Part
of the deficit is provided by illegal mining and processing of salt by indigenous
peoples near Manaure in the Guajira region of Colombia. The market for salt in
Colombia is 55% industrial usage, 34% human and 11% animal consumption. The
company produces diverse grades of salt -- salt granules, salt solution, refined
salt, ground or milled, and evaporated salt.
4.        Continuous operating losses have left the Government with over Col$2
billion in loans to the company.   These losses have also impeded proper
maintenance and replacement of equipment, so that at present some of Salinas'
operation, for example at Menaure, are obsolete and quite inefficient. In 1987,
and 1988, the company generated a modest profit from operations, but on a full
cost basis, including financial costs, the company loses money. (N.B. will need
to update these figures at time invitation to consultants is made).



-95.
ANNEX IX
Page 8 of 13
5.        IFI and the Government have not yet developed a plan for restructuring
Concesi6n Salinas.   Moreover, whatever decision is made respect tc Salinas
eventually affects the process of restructuring and eventual privatization of
Alcalis. Also, it is clear that the management of Concesi6n Salinas does not fit
with IFI's longer term strategy to operate as a lending and investment promotion
institution.  Concesi6n Salinas needs to be moved out of IUI, eitlher into an
industrial holding company managed by IFI, into the private sector or perhaps
under the direction of the Ministry of Mines.
II. SCOPE OF THE ASSIGNMENT
6.        IFI will have the responsibility for the restructuring of Cfmncesi6n
Salinas, unless the operation is absorbed by another Ministry, moreover, the
decision to divest would involve the Ministry of Development and ultimately
CONPES, the highest economic advisory body in the country.   Therefore, in
evaluating IFI's management of Salinas, in developing a restructuring plan and
in formulating alternative strategies for the company, the consultants would have
to consult with the Ministries of Development and Finance and the Planning Agency
(Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n) and perhaps other institutions yet to be
defined.
7.
The assignment will include the following scope of work:
*    a brief  diagnostic  of  Concesi6n  Salinas,  historic  and  current
performance including its returns (losses) to IFI as a manager of this
operation.
    A definition of the restructuring requirements for Salinas including
an analysis of necessary changes in legal structure, management,
physical investments or plant rehabilitation, changes in technology,
logistical operations, and financial structure, i.e., changes
necessary to make it a viable and efficient operation.
*    A clear analysis of operating business relationship between Salinas
and Alcalis and recommendations for changes therein.
    Alternative strategies for Salinas considering the potential for
leasing out the facilities or providing a concession to the private
sector.    Possible  consideration  should  be  given  to  forming  a
cooperative for indigenous peoples to mine the salt in Manaure. These
strategies should be developed in light of the trade liberalization
taking place within Colombia, the reform of public sector operations
and the movement to privatize parastatal enterprises in the tradeables
sector.



-96-
A#MEX IX
Page 9 of 13
XII. TIME SCHEDULE AND REPORTING
8.        The assignment should be completed in approximately three months in
two phases. The first phase is the diagnostic phase and should provide IFI with
the consultants' overall assessment of Salinas and alternative valuations. The
second phase should result i- the development of a clear program for
restructuring Salinas, including financial projections under alternative
restructuring approaches and calculations of the financial and economic returns
from  these  investments.    The  consultant  should  also  develop  a detailed
implementation program for the restructuring. This phase should also provide IFI
and the Government with alternative strategies for managing, leasing or changing
ownership in the future.
IV.  REHUIERATION
9.        IFI intends to remunerate the consultants through a fixed consulting
fee, in additions to payment for out of pocket expenses. The budget for this
assignment is US$______.
V.  SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS
10.       Your firm's proposal should include the following information:
(a)  A brief presentation of the firm and its experience in privatization,
mergers and acquisitions for mining companies.
(b)  Your experience in Colombia.
(c)  Curricula Vitae of the members of the team thst will be directly
handling the assignment.   Please note that each bidding firm has
established its excellence in the investment banking industry and
therefore has senior people with great experience. While they are of
interest to us in principle, the proposals must include the CV's of
the team proposed for the assignment.
(d)  A  detailed approach  and timetable proposed  for undertaking the
assignment.
(e)  A sealed envelope separate from the technical proposal containing your
price proposal. Please include the manner in which fees and expenses
would be determined and an estimate of their total amount.
(N.B. that a separate letter, Invitation to Consultants, would need to be
prepared near the time of bidding spelling out evaluation criteria, submission
dates, bid evaluation dates and expected start up dates for the assignment).



-97-
ANNEX IX
Page 10 of 13
THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
PRIVATIZATION OF THE INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE 2OR A FINNCIAL ADVISOR
I. Backsround
1.        The Government of Colombia (GOC) under the auspices of its economic
advisory council (CONPES) and the Ministry of Economic Development, intends to
hire a financial advisor to assist it ir. evaluating and defining a program for
the privatization of the Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI).
2.        IFI is an industrial development corporation founded over 50 years ago
to make investments in Colombian 4n'Xustry.  In 1963, the Instituto was given
permission to also lend funds to industry, thus becoming pr4.marily a first tier
financial institution.  At present, IFI employs appr:ximately 300 staff, has
equity of US$150 million and assets of approximately US$500 million.
3.        Over the last few years, beginning in 1988, IFI has undergone a
process of restructuring and mod3rnization, which has included, inter alia, the
following:
divestiture of a substantial part of its investment portfolio in
order to rotate a stagnant portfolio.
-    restructuring  and  privatization  of  several  wholly  owned
subsidiaries and state-owned enterprises managed by IFI.
-    resolution of a major financial deficit arising from the sourcing
of funds from the Social Security Fund, the so called Bonos de
Valor Constante.
-    reduction of its reliance on public sources of funding.
-    gradual elimination of subsidized lending to industry in favor
of loans at market rates of interest.
-    reorganization   of   IFI,   including   staff   reductions   of
approximately 15% and the introduction of a commercial department
to market its products in competition with privately held finance
corporations.
-    Establishment  of  clear  policies  for  lending  and  equity
investments to control historical problems such as portfolio
concentration, "throwing" loans at enterprises in support of poor
equity investments, failure to rotate its portfolio and
reluctance to liquidate loss making activities, etc.



-98-
ANNEX IX
Page 11 of 13
4.        In short, IFI has often operated historically with a mixed mandate
that was at once economic,  social and political.   This mix of objectives
implicitly caused IFI to make poor investment and lending decisions and to absorb
financial losses.   The restructuring program has attempted to clean up the
accumulation of problems and to have IFI operate as an efficient financial
institution lending to and investing in Colombian enterprises solely on the basis
of sound economic and financial criteria.
5.        Consideration of whether and how to best privatize IFI will take place
within an economy that is undergoing a process of economic reform and
liberalization (apertura).   Thes, changes are taking place in four critical
areas:   trade liberalization, public enterprise reforms, labor reforms and
financial sector reforms. IFI has traditionally financed enterprises within an
economic environment characterized as closed or highly protected and lacking real
competttion. The financial sector has traditionally been oligopolistic in nature
and relatively inefficient. The overriding issue, therefore, is what is IFI's
future role as a financial institution. The essential questions are should IFI
remain as a public institution and if so, what is the rationale supporting this
conclusion? If IFI should be privatized, either partially or entirely, then the
advisor will need to define the approach and timing for this process.
TI.  Scope of the Assignment
6.        The Ministry of Economic Development would have the responsibility for
managing the privatization process, however, the overall decision on IFI's role
is likely to be made in a broader context through CONPES, the economic advisory
council which generally oversees the country's economic strategy. Therefore, in
assessing IFI's role the Financial Advisor will have to consult with the Ministry
of Finance, the Central Bank, the Planning Agency --Departamento Nacional de
Planeaciot (DNP), as well as the Ministry of Economic Development and IFI itself.
In addition, the Adviser will be expected to interview privately held financial
institutions and industrial enterprises to assess IFI's current and future role
as a competitor in the financial sector and as a source of financing and equity
investments for the real sector. The Advisor will be expected to take advantage
of a strategic study prepared for IFI by Booz Allen and Hamilton in 1989, a
Financial Sector Report prepared by the World Bank in 1992 and other relevant
published material on the finauicial sector available in Colombia.
7.        The assignment will therefore include the following:
-    a brief diagnostic of IFI's current performance.
-    a  comparative  analysis  of where  IFI  stands  in  terms  of
performance, market share, product offerings, sources of funding,
financial strength, organizational capabilities, etc. in
Colombia's  financial  sector,   specifically  vis-a-vis  the
Corporaciones Financieras (finance corporations). In addition,
the Advisor should take advantage of its expertise to compare IFI
with similar institutions in other developing countries as
appropriate.



-99-
ANNEX IX
Page 12 of 13
a  valuation  of  IFI  for  potential  privatization  purposes
considering diverse alternatives such as capital market flre ation
(public offering), private sale and joint venture with either a
domestic and/or foreign financial institution.
potential timing for privatization and a detailed implementation
plan to achieve this objective.
III. Time Schedule and Reporting
8.        The assignment should be completed in approximately four months in two
phases.  The first phase is the diagnostic phase evaluating IFI's performance as
a financial institution. In addition, this phase should provide a comparative
analysis of IFI vis-a-vis other financial institutions in Colombia and
internationally as appropriate.   The second phase of the assignment should
provide a valuation of IFI for privatization purposes, the work plan and
timetable for privatization. Moreover, these should be contained in a written
report to the GOC detailing the rationale for and against privatization, based
on interviews and the Advisor's independent and objective evaluation of IFI, the
Colombian financial sector and the market's ability to absorb such a
privatization either partially or totally.
IV. Remuneration
9.        The GOC intends to remunerate the Financial Advisor through a fixed
consulting fee, in addition to payment for out of pocket expenses for travel,
lodging and other administrative expenses associated with the assignment. If the
assignment proceeds to phase three, then a success fee will become appropriate
from the proceeds of the sale.
V. Submission of Pro;osals
10.       Your firm's proposal should include the following information:
(a)  a  brief  presentation  of  the  firm  and  its  experience  in
privatization,   mergers   and   acquisitions   for   financial
institutions.
(b)  your experience in Colombia.
(c)  Curricula Vitae of the members of the team that will be directly
handling the assignment. Please note that each bidding firm has
established its excellence in the investment banking industry and
therefore has senior people with great experience. While they
are of interest to us in principle, the proposals must include
the CV's of the team proposed for the assignment.



-100-                            ANNEXX
Page 13 of 13
(d)  a detailed approach and timetable proposed for undertaking tf4
assignment.
(e) a sealed envelope separate from the technical proposal containing
your price proposal. Please include the manner in which feei and
expenses would be determined and an estimate of their total
amount.
(N.B. that a separate letter, Invitation to Consultants, would need to be
prepared near the time of bidding spelling out evaluation criteria, submission
dates, bid evaluation dates and expected start up dates for the assignment.)



COLOMBIA
IFI RESTRUCTURIJG AND DIVESTITURE PROJECT
Estimated IBRD Disbursement Schedule, 1992-1998   1/
(US# Million)
IBRD          Semester                    CREDIT COMPONENT                    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              TOTAL
Fiscal          erding             Disbursements      Cumulative        Disbursements       Cumitative       CWUFLATIVE
Year                               for Semester  Disbursements           for Sememe',r  Disbursements    DISBURSEMENTS
1992      June 30, 1992                   2.88            2.88                  0.0            0.08             2.96
1993     December 31, 1992                6.72            9.60                  0.16            0.24             9.84
June 30, 1993                   3.84            13.44                 0.16            0.40            13.84
1994      December 31, 1993              15.36           28.80                  0.16            0.,6            29.36
June 30, 1994                  11.52           40.32                 0.16             0.72            41.04 
1995     December 31, 1994               11.52           51.84                 0.32             1.04            52.88
June 30, 1995                  15.36           67.20                 0.48             1.52            68.72
1996     December 31, 1995               15.36           82.56                 0..8             2.00            84.56
June 30, 1996                   3.84           86.40                 0.64             2.64            89.04
1997     December 31, 1996                3.84           90.24                 0.48             3.12            93.36
June 30, 1997                   2.88           93.12                 0.48            3.60             96.72
1998     December 31, 1997                2.88           96.00                 0.40             4.00           100.00
1/ Standard World Bank Colombia disbursement profiles are used to estimate this disbursement schedule.                                   L
Ix



-102-
Page I of 2
COLOMBIA
IFI RESTRUCTURING AND DIVESTITURE_PROJECT
Items for Mid-term Review
At the time of the mid-term review of project progress, the following
items would be reviewed:
(a) Progress touards achieving the objectives of the project, and of
IFI's restructuring as etated in the Policy Letter.
(b) Progress on the liberalization of the financial and capital market
sectors and on increased private sector participation in financial
institutions.
(c) Progress in reorganizing IFI, including the organiza..ional,
staffing and information systems developments.
(d) Implementation of IFI's new funding, lending and investment
policies and procedures, as stated in the Policy Letter.
(e) IFI's financial condition and performance, including progress
towards achieving financial performance equivalent to private CFs.
(f) Progress in carrying out the divestiture program, including the
annual minimum targets for 1991 to 1994 for the group of 24 general
companies.
(g) The development of a strategic plan for Concesi6n Salinas, and the
implementation of the transfer of the concession to the Trust Fund
in the event no other disposition was made of the firm.
(h) Implementation of the transfer to a Trust Fund of IFI's shares in
Alcalis and implementation of the privatization or liquidation of
one of the two Alcalis' plants.
(i) Implementation of the sale of the first 15.4 million shares of
Propal.
(j) Development of a strategic analysis by the Government of its
investment in Cerro Matoso, including a review of the alternative
ownership structures to be considered for the company.
(k) Development of a strategic analysis by the Government of its
investment in Mon6meros, including a review of the alternative
ownership structures to be considered for the company.



-103-                              ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 2
(1) Definition of a plan of action for the transfer to the Trust Fund
by December 31, 1994 of IFI's shares in Cerro Matoeo, in the event
IFI would not have sold this investment.
(m)  Definition of a plan of action for the transfeer to the Trust Fund
by December 31, 1994 of IFI's shares in Honfmoros, in the event IFI
would not have sold this investrint.
(n) A discussion of the conclusions - d recommendations of the
strategic analysis study of IFI and its ownership structure and,
based on this study, the definition of a program of privatization
of IFI.



