Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3449 CO
Loan Agreement
(IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL
Dated June 21, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3449 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL (the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, a legal entity commonly referred to as IFI pursuant 
to the provisions of Decrees No. 166 of 1969 and No. 1730 of 1990, both issued by the 
Executive Branch of the Republic of Colombia (the latter hereinafter referred to as 
the Guarantor), is controlled by the Guarantor through its Executive Branch, with 
about 98% of its capital stock owned by the Guarantor, and with a large part of its 
assets consisting of equity participations representing the Guarantor in a number of 
public or mixed-economy companies;
(B)
the Guarantor and the Borrower pursuant, in general lines, to documents 
DNP-2350-UEI of December 3, 1987, DNP-2378-UEI of July 5, 1988 and DNP-2504-UDIT of 
December 17, 1990, all approved by the Guarantor's National Council of Economic and 
Social Policy (CONPES), have initiated a program for the Borrower's divestiture of 
said assets which may eventually lead to the privatization of the said participations 
and the Guarantor has initiated a program which may eventually lead to the 
privatization of the Borrower; 
(C)
the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
Page  2
(D)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Charter" means the Guarantor's Decrees No. 166 of 1969 and No. 1730 of 
1990, as they may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"Concesion Salinas" means a contract between the Guarantor, the 
Guarantor's Banco de la Republica and the Borrower instrumented in public deed No. 
1753 of April 2, 1970, by means of
which the Borrower undertook the delegated management of a venture commonly referred 
to as Concesion Salinas;
(c)
"free-limit Subloan" means a Subloan, as so defined, which qualifies as a 
free-limit Subloan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Part A of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement;
(d)
"Group B Companies" means the group of companies on which the Borrower 
holds or held, as the case may be, shares of capital stock or other equity interests, 
listed in the letter from
the Borrower's General Manager to the Bank dated January 2, 1992;
(e)
"Investment" means an investment, other than a loan, made or proposed to 
be made by the Borrower in an enterprise, other than a company referred to in Article 
1 or Article 5 of the
Guarantor's Law No. 45 of December 18, 1990, pursuant to the Charter and Statement of 
Policy, and the term includes any shares of capital stock of PROPAL acquired by the 
Borrower by means of converting into such shares the debt instrument referred to in 
paragraph (i) of this Section;
(f)
"Investment Enterprise" means a private enterprise to which the Borrower 
proposes to make or has made a Subloan;
(g)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(h)
"Private Investor" means any individual, or legal entity that is not 
directly or indirectly controlled by the Guarantor or a political or administrative 
subdivision thereof or by any agency of the Guarantor or any such subdivision and 
where the equity interests of the Guarantor or any such subdivision or agency in the 
legal entity in question does not exceed 50%;
(i)
"PROPAL" means Productora de Papeles S.A., a company established in 
November 19, 1957 where the Borrower owned about 23% of the shares of the capital 
Page  3
stock which were transferred to the
Borrower together with an unrestrictedly transferable debt instrument of about 30.5 
million dollars issued by PROPAL in favor of the Borrower, both in consideration for 
the contribution into PROPAL's
equity by the Borrower of assets of Papelera Colombiana S.A.;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment 
policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower dated January 17, 1992, as it may be 
amended from time to time pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement;
(l)
"Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(m)
"Table" means the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Loan Agreement; and
(n)
"Trust Agreement" means the agreement between the Guarantor and the 
Borrower dated June 8, 1991, entered into pursuant to the stipulations of Article 5 of 
the Guarantor's Law No. 48 of December 28, 1990, by means of which (1) the Borrower 
transferred to the Guarantor the property of the shares and debt instrument of Propal 
referred to in paragraph (i) of this Section on account of the cancellation by the 
Trustee (as defined below) of the amounts the Borrower owes to the Guarantor under 
such Article 5 (and under the Trust Agreement) and which have been determined pursuant 
to such Article 5, such transference of property being subject pro-tanto to the 
effective cancellation by the Borrower after the termination of the Trust Agreement, 
partially or totally, of the aforesaid amounts owed, and (2) the Guarantor gave back 
to the Borrower, in trust and with the purpose of the sale thereof, the aforesaid 
shares and debt instrument which, to the extent they have not been sold, will revert, 
upon termination of the trust, to the Guarantor, as property thereof but subject to 
the aforesaid cancellation; the term "Trust Law" means the aforesaid Law No. 48; the 
term "Trust Indebtedness" means the aforesaid amounts which the Borrower owes to the 
Guarantor; and the term "Trustee" means the Borrower acting as trustee in the terms of 
the Trust Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred million dollars 
($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Subloan to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii)
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars or other convertible currency acceptable to the Bank a special deposit account 
in the Guarantor's Banco de la Republica on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Page  4
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such 
Quarter."
 
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  5
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, 
with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with the Charter and the 
Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, loans other than Subloans and Investments, and Subloans, will be made in 
accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Parts B and A of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, respectively.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment 
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes 
of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to time and at the 
request of each party, jointly review with the Guarantor: (i) the financial condition 
and performance of the
Borrower; (ii) the status of: (A) the Borrower's reorganization, including the 
development of organizational, staffing and information systems to be designed and 
implemented under Parts B.1 and 2 of the Project; (B) the implementation of the 
Borrower's funding, lending and investment policies and procedures; (C) without 
limitation or restriction to the stipulations made under Sections 4.05 through 4.08 of 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the divestiture and privatization program of the 
Borrower mentioned in the Preamble to this Agreement; (D) the definition, on the basis 
of the findings and conclusions of the studies included in Parts B.3 through 6 of the 
Project, of action plans and/or strategies to be followed by the Borrower; and (E) the 
process of liberalization of the financial and capital market sectors and the increase 
of private sector participation in both new and currently existing financial 
institutions.
(b)
The Borrower undertakes to refrain from presenting any Subloan for 
approval pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement or 
from requesting authorization
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of any Subloan pursuant to 
paragraph 2 (b) of Part A of such Schedule if, by making such presentation or request, 
the aggregate amount of Subloans approved under the aforesaid paragraph 2 (a) together 
with the aggregate amount of withdrawals authorized in respect of Subloans under the 
aforesaid paragraph 2 (b) shall have reached the amount of the Loan allocated then to 
Category (1) of the Table; provided, however, that the aforesaid provisions of this 
paragraph (b) shall not apply if, after one or more of the reviews  to be held 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Bank shall be satisfied, on the basis 
of evidence satisfactory to the Bank, with the financial condition and performance of 
the Borrower and the progress achieved by the Borrower, and the Guarantor if such may 
be the case, in respect of the topics referred to in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and that the conditions stipulated in Schedule 8 to this 
Agreement have been met.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary 
or convenient to ensure that the ratio of the Borrower's administrative costs to 
average assets is not higher than 130% and 110% of the weighted average ratio of all 
private financial corporations' administrative costs to average assets, respectively, 
for the year 1993, and for the year 1994 and each year thereafter.
(b)
For purposes of this Section, the Borrower's ratio in question shall be 
calculated yearly in accordance with the methodology applied by the Guarantor's 
Superintendencia Bancaria, the
yearly average ratio shall be the one shown by the last relevant publication of said 
Superintendencia for the year in question, the weighting of such yearly ratio shall be 
calculated on the basis of the total assets of the private financial corporations 
Page  6
involved in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank, and the term 
"private financial corporation" shall include a Corporacion Financiera operating in 
Colombia and on which the Guarantor owns or controls not more than 50% of the capital 
stock.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary 
or convenient to ensure that the yearly ratio of the Borrower's net profits to average 
equity is not lower than: (i) 60% for 1993; and (ii) 90% for 1994 and each year 
thereafter, of the weighted average ratio of all private financial corporations' net 
profits to average equity.
(b)
The aforesaid notwithstanding, if in respect of any given year the 
Borrower's ratio of profits to equity has been higher than the corresponding 
percentage of weighted average of the
corporations expressed above, the Borrower shall be allowed to use the excess 
percentage points, or fraction thereof, to compensate any shortfall in its ratio in 
respect of the corresponding percentage of weighted average of such corporations for 
the next year or years expressed above, and to that extent the Borrower shall be 
deemed in compliance with paragraph (a) above in respect of all the years involved in 
the compensation.
(c)
For purposes of this Section, the Borrower's ratio in question shall be 
calculated yearly in accordance with the methodology referred to in Section 3.05 (b) 
of this Loan Agreement, the yearly average ratio of the private financial corporations 
shall be the one shown in the publication referred to in such Section, the weighing of 
such yearly average shall be calculated on the basis of the corresponding total assets 
of the private financial corporations involved in accordance with a methodology 
satisfactory to the Bank, and the term "private financial corporation" shall have the 
same meaning defined in such Section.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, starting in 1993, resort to the financial 
markets as the only source of domestic funding for its operations, with the exception, 
until they are phased out, of the currently existing earmarked sources of funds.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
its accounts 
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses 
and related statements) and records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited in 
accordance with sound auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of said financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such  
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
Page  7
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as 
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in 
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) 
used in its operations.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall adopt, starting in 1993, a policy of paying 
annual cash dividends out of its net profits except in circumstances where doing so 
may prevent the Borrower from maintaining any limit, including the limit on lending 
exposure by the Borrower in respect of individual clients thereof, required by the 
Guarantor's Superintendencia Bancaria; provided, however, that the Borrower's 
obligation under this Section may be interrupted or terminated by the Bank, by notice 
to the Borrower, if the Bank shall have determined, at that point in time, that the 
Borrower's debt to equity ratio has reached an adequate level.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, by not later than each of the dates shown 
below or other dates to be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, sell to one or 
more Private Investors the
Borrower's shares of capital stock or other equity participation in, or write off from 
its assets the investments corresponding to, or initiate or contribute to the 
initiation of procedures leading to the sale of all assets or liquidation of, the 
minimum cumulative number of Group B Companies as ascribed to each of the following 
dates: (i) by December 31, 1993, 13; (ii) by December 31, 1994, 19; and (iii) by 
December 31, 1995, 24.
Section 4.06. The Borrower, acting as Trustee, shall make its best efforts to 
sell, or assign the Guarantor's rights to, the shares and debt instrument of Propal 
referred to in paragraphs (i) and (n) of Section 1.02 this Loan Agreement under the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Trust Agreement.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary or 
convenient on its part to ensure that by not later than December 31, 1994, the two 
currently existing plants of Alcalis de Colombia Limitada and all the related assets 
thereof, or alternatively, all of the Borrower's shares of capital stock of such 
company, have been sold to Private Investors or the irreversible process of closure of 
the plants and sale of the plants and related assets has been initiated.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take all such action on its part as shall be 
necessary or convenient to enable the Guarantor to comply with its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that the Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
Page  8
operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the 
Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
that, after December 31, 1994, any of the two currently existing plants 
of Alcalis de Colombia Limitada remain as an asset thereof, unless all the shares of 
capital stock thereof shall have been sold to one or more Private Investors or, 
alternatively, the process of irreversible closure of the plants and sale of the 
plants and related assets shall have been initiated;
(c)
that, after December 31, 1995, the shares of capital stock of any of the 
companies referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement remain as 
assets of the Borrower; and
(d)
the Trust Agreement or the Trust Law shall have been amended, abrogated 
or repealed without the Bank's acquiescence to any such action or without the Borrower 
having effectively cancelled the Trust Indebtedness.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, the events specified in paragraphs 
(a) or (b) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 shall occu.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Bank shall have dispatched a notice to the 
Guarantor indicating that the Loan and Guarantee Agreements entered into between the 
Bank and Banco de la Republica and the Guarantor and the Bank, respectively, in 
respect of Bank's Loan 3321-CO, have become effective.
Section 6.02. The date of September 21, 1993 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The General Manager of the Borrower, or the holder of any other 
position in which the current powers of the General Manager shall have been vested, as 
the case may be, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
Instituto de Fomento Industrial
Carrera 7a. No. 16-66
Page  9
Santa Fe de Bogota, D.C.
Colombia
Telex:
44642 IFICO
Santa Fe de Bogota
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL
By /s/ Jaime Garcia Parra
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Subloans                  48,000,000        100% of amounts
                                                disbursed by
                                                Borrower
(2) Additional                48,000,000        100% of amounts
    Subloans                                    disbursed by
    presented by                                Borrower
    the Borrower
    for approval
    or for autho-
    rization pur-
    suant to the
    provisions of
    Section 3.03 (b)
    of this Agreement,
    particularly the
    proviso thereto
(3) Goods                      1,400,000        70%
(4) Consultants'               2,600,000        100%
Page  10
    services and train-
    ing related expen-
    ditures
                             ___________
    TOTAL                    100,000,000
                             ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Part A 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $10,000,000, may be made in respect of Category 1 of the Table on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1992; 
and
(c)
in respect of payments made for expenditures under Category 2 of the 
Table, unless the Bank shall notify the Borrower, pursuant to the proviso to Section 
3.03 (b) of this Loan Agreement, of the availability of the funds allocated from time 
to time thereto.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing such productive 
facilities and resources in Colombia as will contribute to the economic and social 
development of the country; (ii) to implement a divestiture and privatization program 
of the Borrower's existing equity holdings, including the development and 
implementation of individual restructuring and divestiture plans; and (iii) to support 
the implementation of a new corporate strategy for the Borrower which will reorient 
its role in industrial and financial sector development by transforming it into a more 
efficient financial institution that can compete on an equal basis in the financial 
markets and, in the process, enhancing competition in such markets and filling gaps in 
financial services needed to support investments consistent with the liberalization of 
the Guarantor's economy.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
The financing of specific development projects through Sub-loans to private 
productive enterprises to finance the imported component of investments in machinery 
and equipment, spare parts, construction and/or rehabilitation of industrial 
facilities (excluding land), and related working capital.
Part B:
1.
Design and implementation of management information  and record and library 
systems.
Page  11
2.
Training of the Borrower's management and staff, including scholarships.
 
3.
Development of a strategic plan of viable options for Concesion Salinas which 
will determine under what conditions the combination of restructuring and partial 
privatization of the venture may be feasible.
4.
Preparation of a strategic analysis of the Borrower's investment in Cerro Matoso 
S.A., including a review of the alternative ownership structures for the company and 
the appropriate timing for these alternatives.
5.
Preparation of a strategic analysis of the Borrower's holdings in Monomeros 
Colombo-Venezolanos S.A. and an analysis of alternative ownership structures.
6.
Development of a strategy for the privatization of the Borrower.
 
7.
Implementation of new policies, procedures and controls for the Borrower's 
operation, including implementation of an organizational quality control system for 
all aspects of the Borrower's management.
8.
Acquisition of equipment for 1 above and of consultant services for all of the 
above, including execution of studies therefor.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15 1997
through July 15, 2008
4,165,000
 
On January 15, 2009
4,205,000
 
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
Page  12
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before 
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a new 
subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the 
Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
(3)
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice,
such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are 
deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in subparagraph (c) of paragraph 3 of Part 
A of 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any 
portion of the Loan 
allocated to Categories (1) or (2) of the Table: (i) 
have received no applications or 
requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of 
said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right 
of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or 
portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of 
the Loan 
shall be cancelled."
Page  13
SCHEDULE 5
Part A.
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Subloans
 
1.
(a)
Subject to (b) below, no Subloan, by itself or in conjunction with other 
Subloan, shall finance more than 70% of the cost of any given Investment Project, the 
remainder of such cost to be financed with equity contributions to the Investment 
Enterprise.
(b)
No Subloan shall exceed the limit referred to in Part B.2 below.
 
(c)
Subloans shall be denominated and payable in terms of dollar equivalent 
and interest shall accrue on disbursed and outstanding principal thereof at an 
adjustable rate based on the
interest rate charged by major banks operating in the United States of America to 
their respective preferential customers plus an adequate spread; provided, however, 
that, subject to agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower, Subloans may be denominated and payable in the 
Guarantor's currency; and further provided, however, that in all cases the rate to be 
charged on Subloans shall at all times be  consistent with the stipulations of Part 
B.1 below.
(d)
Subject to the Borrower's exposure limits in respect of a single client, 
including those referred to in Part B.2 below, the proceeds of the Loan to be used to 
finance one or more Subloans to a given Investment Enterprise shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $10,000,000.
(e)
Every Investment Project shall be required to yield a financial rate of 
return of not less than 12% in real terms, calculated in accordance with a methodology 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to 
the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information 
required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Subloan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Subloan. For the 
purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Subloan shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment 
Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not 
exceed the sum of $2,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts 
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such 
Investment Project, provided, however, that in respect of the first four Investment 
Projects for which Subloans are proposed to be financed under the Project, no such 
Subloan shall be considered a free-limit Subloan irrespective of the amount thereof 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment 
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization 
of the Subloan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of 
Page  14
amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December 31, 1995.
4.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 
to this Agreement and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Subloan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
Part B:
Terms and Conditions for loans other than Subloans, except if otherwise 
stated in 
Part A of this Schedule, and Investments
 
1.
Principal on loans shall accrue interest at variable rates which shall be freely 
determinable between the Borrower and its customer and following closely the 
prevailing commercial market rates.
2.
No loan or Investment shall be made by the Borrower if, by making either one, 
the combined equity and loan financing exposure to any individual client shall exceed 
10% of the Borrower's equity.
3.
No Investment shall be made by the Borrower if, by making such Investment, the 
Borrower's holding of the customer's equity shall exceed 30% thereof.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure at all times that the holding period of each 
Investment is such as it will enable the Borrower to maintain a weighted average 
holding period for all Investments made
after January 1, 1992 of not more than 3 years. The weighing shall be calculated on 
the basis of the value of each Investment in accordance with a methodology acceptable 
to the Bank.
5.
The aforesaid limits and/or period of this Part B may be changed from time to 
time by the Bank at the request of the Borrower.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 6
Procurement and Consultants Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Part A of the Project
 
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Part B of the Project
 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less, but more than 
$50,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Without limitation upon the provision of the Guidelines, in respect of 
procurement of goods and works made:
1.
Pursuant to Part A of this Schedule:
 
(a)
no requirements of local agents for foreign bidders shall be made;
 
(b)
no prior registration of foreign bidders shall be required;
 
(c)
no provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied;
 
(d)
bids for goods shall be evaluated on a C.I.F. basis; and
 
(e)
freight costs quoted freely by each bidder shall be used for purposes of 
bid evaluation.
2.
Pursuant to Part A or Part C of this Schedule:
 
(a)
Awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders.
 
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
Page  16
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods under Part A of the Project 
awarded pursuant to Part A of this Schedule; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to 
cost more than $250,000 equivalent under Part B of the Project; and (iii) the first 
two contracts for goods procured under the procedures referred to in Part C.2 (a) of 
this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. All the 
consultants services to be utilized under Part B of the Project shall be hired in a 
timely fashion so as to enable the Borrower, if so required, to meet the conditions 
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 of this Loan Agreement before the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 2 of the Table may be 
required for the Borrower's operations.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (3), (4) and after 
the notification referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement 
has been dispatched by the Bank, also Category (2), all as set forth in the Table.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding 
the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, payments 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Subloans may be made 
out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the 
Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible 
expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  17
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
Page  18
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 8
Conditions to be Met Pursuant to Section 3.03
of this Loan Agreement
1.
Completion of a plan of action for the irreversible transfer, by not later than 
December 31, 1995, of the Borrower's shares of capital stock in Cerro Matoso S.A. to a 
trustee of a trust fund to be established, all in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Guarantor and the Bank and as an intermediate step to the subsequent disposal of 
such shares on the basis of the findings and conclusions of the one or more studies 
required for the strategic analysis included in Part B.4 of the Project; provided, 
however, that this condition shall not apply if such shares have been sold by the 
Borrower to one or more Private Investors.
2.
Termination of Concesion Salinas and of the Borrower's obligations thereunder, 
and irreversible transfer of the said obligations to the trustee of a trust fund to be 
established, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank and 
on the basis of the findings and conclusions of the one or more studies required for 
the strategic plan included under Part B.3 of the Project.
3.
Completion of a plan of action for the irreversible transfer, by not later than 
December 31, 1995, of the Borrower's shares of capital stock in Monomeros 
Colombo-Venezolanos S.A. to a trustee of a trust fund to be established, all in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank, and as an intermediate step 
to the subsequent disposal of such shares on the basis of the findings and conclusions 
of the one or more studies required for the strategic analysis included in Part B.5 of 
the Project; provided, however, that this condition shall not apply if such shares 
have
been sold by the Borrower to one or more Private Investors or other shareholders.
4.
The Borrower, in its capacity of Trustee, shall have made progress satisfactory 
to the Guarantor and the Bank (i) in its endeavor to sell or assign the Guarantor's 
rights to, the shares
and debt instrument of Propal given in trust to the Borrower under the Trust Agreement 
and referred to in paragraphs (i) and (n) of Section 1.02 of this Loan Agreement, and 
(ii) provided such shares and instrument, or the Guarantor's rights thereto, shall 
have not been sold or assigned, respectively, in building up a financial reserve that 
would enable the Borrower, if so required, to cancel the Trust Indebtedness.
5.
(A)
Irreversible transfer of the Borrower's equity interest in Alcalis de 
Colombia Limitada to the trustee of a trust fund to be established for the purpose in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and as an intermediate step for the 
subsequent sale of all of the said equity interest or, alternatively, the assets, of 
the company to one or more Private Investors, and (B) sale of one of the two currently 
existing plants of such company and of the other assets thereof related to the plant 
in question, or, alternatively, irreversible closure of such plant with the only 
purpose of disposing of such plant and assets.
