Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3449 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 21, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3449 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Guarantor) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Guarantor and Instituto de Fomento Industrial, commonly 
denominated IFI (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby 
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and 
punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and 
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of 
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall: (a) furnish to the Bank by a date not later 
than October 15, 1993, the findings and recommendations of a study that the Guarantor 
shall cause the Borrower to prepare on the alternative modalities to materialize the 
Borrower's divestiture of its shares of capital stock of Corporacion Andina de 
Fomento; and (b) take all such action on its part as shall be necessary or convenient 
to enable the Borrower to ensure that by October 15, 1994 the actual divestiture is 
carried out.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all such action on its part as shall be 
necessary or convenient to enable the Borrower to carry out Part B.6 of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall, starting in 1993, refrain from: (i) 
establishing or using any earmarked source of funds for the Borrower's lending 
operations, additional to those currently
existing and which are being phased out; and (ii) making budgetary transfer of funds 
to the Borrower other than as equity contributions thereto.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take all such action on its part as shall be 
necessary to participate in the meeting or meetings that will culminate in the review 
or reviews referred to in
paragraph (a) of Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Page  3
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito
   Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Santa Fe de Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIHACIENDA
44473
MHACCO
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Jaime Garcia Parra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
