Page  1
INITIAL PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)     
29104
 
WEST BANK AND GAZA - PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM 
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION 
 
Project Name: 
West Bank and Gaza Public Financial Management Reform 
Structural Adjustment Operation 
Region: 
 
 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
Sector: 
   Public 
Sector 
Governance 
Project 
ID: 
  SF-P088754 
Implementing Agency: 
Ministry of Finance 
Palestinian Authority 
West Bank and Gaza 
Environmental Category 
C 
Date PID Prepared: 
 
May 4, 2004 
Appraisal: 
  May 
5, 
2004 
Board Date (planned):  
June 3, 2004 
 
Background 
 
The current 
intifada
 and Israeli security measures have had a profoundly adverse impact 
upon the Palestinian economy and led to an estimated cumulative gross domestic product 
decline of 28 percent from 2000 to 2002.  Although this decline was partially reversed in 
2003, the nature of this recovery is fragile.  Unemployment rates remain high, and real 
per capita incomes are more than 30 percent below their pre-
intifada
 level.  The 
Palestinian Authority’s (PA) fiscal position remains extremely precarious.  In fiscal year 
2004, it is currently facing an anticipated deficit of US$650 million (around 38 percent of 
total projected expenditure), or a gap of approximately US$54 million per month that 
cannot be filled through internal resources. 
 
At the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee meeting in Rome in December 2003, the PA requested 
the Bank to establish a mechanism for channeling donor budget support.  This led to the 
establishment of the Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund (hereafter the 
Reform Fund), which was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on April 22, 
2004.  The Bank also indicated its willingness to leverage donor funds for budget support 
by making a contribution of its own in the form of an adjustment operation financed on a 
grant basis. 
Page  2
Objectives 
 
The Structural Adjustment Operation seeks to provide badly 
needed budget support to the PA during a period of acute 
economic and fiscal crisis.  It will contribute to sustaining 
momentum on the Mini
stry of Finance’s (MoF) impressive 
financial management reform agenda.  In helping to sustain 
the PA and avoid the threat of insolvency, the operation will 
contribute to the economic rehabilitation of the West Bank 
and Gaza (WB&G) and make a modest but essential 
contribution to the broader hope for peace in the region. 
 
Within the WB&G and broader donor community, the provision of budgetary support is 
widely regarded as vital in maintaining a functioning the PA.  Budget support helps the 
PA meet part of its
 recurrent expenditures, paying public servants’ salaries, repaying 
some of its arrears to the private sector and providing essential services such as health, 
education, water supply, and sanitation to the Palestinian people.  At the same time, it 
promotes essential reforms of the Palestinian Authority.  In the past, budget support has 
proven effective in preventing perhaps 100,000 people from falling into poverty and in 
sustaining demand, critical to supporting the fledgling private sector. 
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
An update of the Bank’s strategy in WB&G was presented to the Board in December 
2003.
1
While recognizing the necessity for the Bank to remain flexible and adaptive to 
the ever-changing circumstances, the strategy stressed 
inter alia 
the Bank’s role in 
strengthening Palestinian capacities for the delivery of basic services
 
to the poor, which 
has become an area of particular importance in the current emergency.  The Bank’s 
central role in donor coordination has been further strengthened by its administration of 
the multi-donor Reform Fund. 
Description 
 
This is an emergency structural adjustment operation closely aligned with the Reform 
Fund.  It supports the same reform program and requires the same prior actions for Board 
1
The strategy was encapsulated in two Presidential memoranda to the Board: 
West Bank and Gaza: The 
Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank: Status, Strategy and Request for Replenishment
 (Resolution 
N°.03-193 and IDA 03-208), December 2, 2003; and 
Proposed Extension of the Moratorium on Service 
Payments; and Proposed Amendment on Re-flows
,
December 18, 2003. 
Page  3
presentation.  The operation recognizes the very significant progress that the PA has 
made in improving the quality of its financial management and supports further 
improvements in this area. 
 
Financing and Loan Structure 
 
The operation is being prepared under Operational Directive 8.60 for structural 
adjustment credits.  It will be financed by a grant from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West 
Bank (TFGWB). 
 
Implementation 
 
The implementation agency is the MoF of the PA. 
 
Sustainability 
 
The proposed operation is consistent with
 PA’s Socio-Economic Stabilization Plan, 
which places strong emphasis upon the importance of budget support.  The Bank’s 
strategy for WB&G emphasizes retaining a focus on the development of efficient and 
transparent institutions
 
and sound economic and financial policies, which will help to lay 
the foundation for institutional sustainability and future statehood.  The PA has made 
significant progress in improving the quality of its financial management, including in 
budgeting and fiscal transparency. 
 
There is considerable ownership for the reform program within the MoF, and the PA has 
itself identified the reform benchmarks.  By donors choosing to channel their assistance 
through the Reform Fund and linking tranche releases to the achievement of specific 
benchmarks under the Reform Program, as does this Structural Adjustment Operation, 
budget support also provides the PA with a strong incentive to maintain the pace of the 
current reform agenda. 
Environmental Aspects 
 
The proposed structural adjustment operation will have no direct impact on the 
environment, and as such this operation is classified as category C and does not require 
an environmental assessment. 
 
Contact Point 
 
The InfoShop 
Page  4
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
Tel. 202-458-5454 
Fax 202-522-1500 
 
Task Team Leaders: Robert Beschel and Catherine Laurent 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
Tel. 202-458-5046 and 202-473-84-08 
Fax 202-477-0432
 
