                 Document of
               The World Bank




                                          Report No: 32339

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                 (TF-51096)

                   ON A

                   GRANT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20 MILLION

                   TO THE

            WEST BANK AND GAZA

                   FOR A

PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
     STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION




                 May 12, 2005

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                    (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                   Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel
                                          US$ 1 = 4.54 NIS

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1   December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




AHLC  Ad Hoc Liaison Committee                 LDP             Letter of Development Policy
CFAA Country Financial Accountability       MoF               Ministry of Finance
     Assessment
CTA  Central Treasury Account               NIS               New Israeli Shekel
EPIP Emergency and Public Investment Plan   PA                Palestinian Authority
ESSP Emergency Services Support Program     PC                Petroleum Corporation
FY   Fiscal Year                            PCBS              Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
GCI  General Control Institute              PIF               Palestine Investment Fund
GDP  Gross Domestic Product                 PLC               Palestinian Legislative Council
GNI  Gross National Income                  PPAP              Participatory Poverty Assessment
                                                              Program
GPC  General Personnel Council              Reform Fund       Public Financial Management Reform
                                                              Trust Fund
GPIC Gaza Pension and Insurance Corporation SESP              Socio-Economic Stabilization Plan
IAD  Internal Audit Department              TFGWB             Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction  US$               United States Dollar
     and Development
IDA  International Development Association  WB&G              West Bank and Gaza
IMF  International Monetary Fund




                                 Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
                               Country Director     Nigel Roberts
                                Sector Manager      Dipak Dasgupta
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Robert P. Beschel

                                 WEST BANK AND GAZA
                        WBG Pub Sec Fin Mgmt Ref Struc Adj Oper


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P088754                                                  Project Name: WBG Pub Sec Fin Mgmt Ref Struc Adj
                                                                     Oper
Team Leader: Robert P. Beschel                                       TL Unit: MNSED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 13, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: WBG Pub Sec Fin Mgmt Ref Struc Adj Oper                  L/C/TF Number: TF-51096
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (P); Tax policy and administration (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/31/2004                                     Effective:                           06/08/2004
     Appraisal: 05/03/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/06/2004                                      Closing:                            09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Palestinian Liberation Organization/Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:      Australia, Canada, European Commission (EU), Japan, Korea, Norway, United
                                           Kingdom

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan Poortman                            Christiaan Poortman
Country Director:               Nigel Roberts                                  Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:                 Mustapha Nabli                                 Mustapha Nabli
Team Leader at ICR:             Robert Beschel                                 Robert Beschel
ICR Primary Author:             Giulio De Tommaso


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


Background

The intifadathat started in September 2000 and the related Israeli security measures have had a
profoundly adverse impact upon the Palestinian economy.            Gross domestic product (GDP)
declined by an estimated 28 percent from 2000 to 2002. Growth resumed in 2003 (an estimated 6
per cent in real terms), but per real per capita incomes remained largely stagnant and the
Palestinian economy continued to function well below its potential. A significant proportion of
the population was below the poverty line; real per capita GDP was estimated to be 37 percent
below its level in 1999; unemployment rates averaged 23.8 percent in the West Bank and 29.2
percent in Gaza.

The fiscal position of the Palestinian Authority (PA) was equally precarious. The budget deficit
for 2004 was estimated at US$ 650 million (around 38 percent of total projected expenditure).

By early 2004, the PA had made significant progress in terms of public financial management,
including improvements in accountability and transparency, including

l The payment of all PA revenues into a central treasury account (CTA), which has eliminated
    previous discretionary and non-transparent spending of line ministries.
l The exercise by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) of firm control over budget expenditures and
    the further development of the financial control function in the MoF and ministries.
l The development of a comprehensive budget for 2004, which accounts for all revenue and
    sets meaningful limits on expenditure.
l Enhanced transparency in financial management, including the regular posting of budget data
    on the MOF website and the expansion of the formal budget document to include more
    detailed information on topics ranging from the balance of payments to public service
    employment.
l Improved control over the civil service payroll through the MOF assuming responsibility for
    staff numbers from the General Personnel Council (GPC), and the payment of salaries for all
    civil servants and security personnel through personal bank accounts (rather than in cash).
l The establishment of the Palestine Investment Fund (PIF), bringing all PA equity holdings
    under MOF overview and providing for a centralized and commercially based management.
    Fiscal transparency has also been enhanced by the publication of a valuation of all PIF
    investments, and by the publication of the PIF's audited financial statements.
l The abolition of the PA cement monopoly, and the direct take-over of the petroleum
    monopoly by the MOF.

These achievements as well as areas for further improvement have been documented in the Bank's
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA). The CFAA also confirmed that the PA's
public financial management system qualified for budget support.

Against this background, at the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee (AHLC) meeting in Rome in



                                                - 2 -

December 2003, the PA requested the Bank to set up a mechanism for channeling donor budget
support to its central treasury account. This request, which was supported by donors, led to the
establishment of the Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund (hereafter the Reform
Fund); it was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on April 22, 2004. It is a two year
instrument scheduled for closing on December 31, 2005.

The Reform Fund is a vehicle through which donors provide budget support in the context of
improved financial management within a broader reform agenda. It is guided by a Public Financial
Management Reform Program, with defined prior actions and benchmarks. Upon achievement of
each set of benchmarks, tranches of donor funds are released to the PA. The Bank as the Reform
Fund administrator is responsible for monitoring and certifying benchmarks, and making
disbursement operations. A local Guidance Committee, composed of the Bank, the IMF and
other key Reform Fund donors, also has a role in reviewing progress under the reform program.

As requested by the PA, the Bank indicated its willingness to leverage donor funds for budget
support by making a contribution of its own in the form of a US$ 20 million structural adjustment
operation (SAO) financed on a grant basis. This operation is reviewed in this document.

Objective

The PA's Public Financial Management Reform Program has two principal objectives. The first is
to further improve the Public Financial Management policies, practices and procedures within a
broader national reform agenda.      The second is to provide donors with sufficient fiduciary
assurances to ensure their financial support during the 2004 and 2005 budget years.            The
operation was processed in parallel and is closely aligned with the Reform Fund. The SAO
supported the same reform program and required the same prior actions for Board presentation.

The Bank's SAO aimed to: i) provide budgetary support to the PA during a period of acute
economic and fiscal crisis; (ii) help leverage additional donor support for the Reform Fund; and
(iii) help strengthen the PA's financial management reform agenda. Also, in discussions with the
Bank, the PA specified two sets of benchmarks consistent with the reform program for the year
2004: one set as prior actions for the release of the first tranche under the Reform Fund as well as
for the release of the adjustment operation (April-June 2004), and another for the release of the
second Reform Fund tranche (July - December 2004).

The operation was prepared under Operational Directive 8.60 for structural adjustment credits. It
was financed by a grant from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB).

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objective did not change.

3.3 Original Components:

The PA's public financial management reform program has focused mainly on five priority areas,
with some actions necessary for the release of the adjustment operation, and some considered



                                                - 3 -

benchmarks for the following six months. These actions were defined during preparation of the
Reform Fund and this operation (see Annex 1 for a complete list of prior actions and mid-2004
benchmarks)

(i) Improving transparency of the budget process and responsiveness of the budget to public
demands. Specifically, this component consisted of submitting the budget law for 2004 to the
Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) (Prior Action).

(ii) Improving transparency and accountability in the utilization of public resources and
procurement. This component consisted of: (a) submitting to the Palestinian Legislative Council
(PLC) statements on the PA's fiscal operation in 2002 (Prior Action); (b) submitting to the PLC
statements on the PA's fiscal operation in 2003, and PA commitment to their external audit by the
new auditing institution by end March 2005, or by external auditors by end June 2005; (c)
submitting the revised External Audit Law, which ensures compliance by a new auditing
institution with the provisions of the Basic law; (d) ensuring full jurisdiction by the Department of
Supplies and Tenders (DST) in the Ministry of Finance over all purchases made by the PA
ministries and agencies, including the security services; and (e) completing and publishing the final
report on the valuation of assets of the Palestine Investment Fund (PIF) (Prior Action).

(iii) Improving establishment control, human resource and financial management of the PA.
This component consisted of: (a) achieving the full implementation of the 2004 budget law's
requirement that the salaries of all PA security personnel be directly deposited into individual bank
accounts (Prior Action); and (b) achieving the full implementation of the Council of Ministers'
decision of June 2003 to retire PA employees over the age of 60.

(iv) Limiting the growth of the wage bill, but ensuring the adequate funding of critical
expenditures. This component consisted of: (a) ensuring full compliance with the 2004 Budget
law in relation to public sector hiring. New hiring should not exceed 3,500 personnel and 90% of
the additional staff must be allocated to the social sector ministries (Health, Education and
Social Affairs) and for Reform Program-related needs while the remaining 10% should go to
other civil service entities (Prior Action); (b) adoption by the Council of Ministers of an Action
Plan to contain the wage bill; and (c) best efforts by the PA to adhere to a minimum quarterly
level of NIS 160 million in essential non-salary social recurrent expenditures.

(v) Encouraging the development of a unified, transparent pension system for public servants.
This component consisted of the approval by the National Pension Committee of a detailed
outline of a pension reform program and a draft pension law, including implementation of
regulations, setting out the parameters, institutions and management of a unified and sustainable
public sector pension scheme.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised in the time frame under consideration. The Reform Fund
continues its operation, and new benchmarks are set every six months for the release of additional
tranches.



                                                 - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:


ICR-Satisfactory

The ICR concludes that Quality at Entry was satisfactory for the following reasons:

(i)      Consistency with country strategy

This adjustment operation was consistent with, and part of, the Bank's strategy in West Bank and
Gaza (WBG) dated December 18, 2003. This strategy balances efforts to manage the ongoing
emergency with a continued focus on a medium-term development agenda. The strategy consists
of the following elements: monitoring and analyzing emerging socioeconomic developments and
donor interventions; strengthening capacities for and financing the delivery of basic services to the
poor by supporting the development of efficient and transparent institutions (PA ministries,
municipalities, universities, NGOs and private sector representative bodies); and supporting the
development of sound economic strategies, policies and institutions, thereby helping lay the
foundation for institutional sustainability and future statehood.           The operation strongly
emphasizes measures aimed at improving public financial management system while addressing
urgent short-term needs.

(ii)     Adequate project design

The adjustment operation was designed within a larger multi-donor effort to respond
appropriately and effectively to the priorities of the PA at a time of crisis, by providing budgetary
support essential to maintaining a functioning PA. It further strengthened the momentum which
had taken place in the previous two years, especially in terms of improved management of PA
financial resources. By providing a World Bank "stamp of approval" to the important reforms
undertaken by the Ministry of Finance, the Bank was able to mobilize over US$ 103 million from
donors in 2004.

(iii)    Participation, dialogue, and effective use of ESW

The Bank examined financial management reforms in the context of the June 2004 CFAA and
highlighted important improvements in budgeting and in fiscal transparency. This constituted a
solid basis on which to build. It also identified areas of further improvement, and thus played a
critical role in shaping the benchmarks used in this operation.

Additionally, prior to the AHLC meeting in December 2003, the Bank assisted the PA in
developing its Socioeconomic Stabilization Plan 2004-2005 (SESP). The SESP outlined a US$
1.2 billion program of donor financing for 2004. The SESP placed strong emphasis on budget
support, accompanied by continued financial management reforms.

Most importantly, this operation benefited from very intensive donor coordination. Reform Fund
contributors includes Australia, Canada, the European Commission, France, Japan, Korea,
Norway and the United Kingdom. These donors, as well as the IMF and the United States were



                                                 - 5 -

closely involved in the preparation of the program. The Bank has been leading periodic joint
supervision missions to review progress with regards to the Reform Fund benchmarks and to
assist the PA as needed. The interaction throughout the process has been highly appreciated by
the other donors.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


Satisfactory

This assessment is based on the achievements of the prior conditions, as well as the first set of
benchmarks.

The objective of the project was to provide fiscal relief for the Palestinian Authority, through
targeted, realistic actions achievable within the period of implementation of the credit. The
objective of the operation was largely achieved. Budget support through the Reform Fund and
this operation reached $123 million in 2004 aand accounted for 35% of all budget support that
year. The reform agenda was progressively broadened to encompass public administration and
civil service benchmarks.

On the whole, public financial management has proceeded well. Financial management systems
have been strengthened by closing various obvious loopholes which had been a source of
unwarranted expenses and corruption (such as payments in cash of a portion of security services
salaries), PLC oversight over the budget both in terms of prior and post review were further
deepend, and establishment controls were strengthened. Accordingly, the financial management
risk arising for the current public financial management system has been reduced. This rating is
also consistent with ISR ratings, where progress in reaching the project development objectives
was rated satisfactory.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Improving the transparency of the budget process and responsiveness of the budget to public
demands

Satisfactory

This component meant to provide an opportunity for the PLC to review the budget document in
due time, and to ensure that it is consistent with public priorities. This was achieved. The budget
law was debated by the PLC and adopted on January 15, 2004 by a vote of 44 in favor and 4
against. This is reflected in the PLC decision 8/12/650. The timely passage of this law sets an
important precedent affirming the normal powers of overview by the PLC. As such it has an
important institutional impact.

  Improving transparency and accountability in the utilization of public resources and



                                                 - 6 -

procurement

Satisfactory

Fiscal operation statements were provided to the PLC, along with supporting tables for the year
2002, as a prior condition to Board presentation. Fiscal operation statements for 2003 were also
presented to the PLC, albeit a few weeks late. An external audit of the 2003 statements is being
conducted.

To ensure additional accountability and transparency, the Department of Supplies and Tenders
(DST) has now centralized jurisdiction for all purchases made by the PA ministries and agencies,
including the security Financial Administration. The Procurement Law is thus being applied even
for purchases by the security services. Tenders are regularly advertised in the daily media except
for urgent purchases, where DST is abilitated to undertake national shopping procedures. DST
monitors the tendering process, and sends staff to ministries to ensure that rules are being
followed. The DST prepares quarterly procurement reports which are now posted on the MOF
website.

The valuation of assets of the PIF was undertaken by Ernst and Young (Amman) which certified
that the consolidated financial statements, including the asset valuation, present fairly in all
material respects, the position of the Palestine Investment Fund Company as of December 31,
2003. Furthermore, the Auditor report is unqualified. The audited statements for 2003 and the
PIF Auditor's report are available to the general public on the PIF website.

An external audit law satisfactory to the Bank was approved by the PLC. The law enshrines the
principles of independence in the appointing process for the Head of the Audit Council, the
independence of the reporting process, and the jurisdiction of the committee over all Palestinian
Authority activities, including those of the PIF. In addition, suggestions by the Bank to further
improve the draft were largely included in the law.

Improving establishment control, human resource and financial management of the PA

Satisfactory

Civil servants already received their salaries directly to their bank account. However, most
security personnel had not been on the direct deposit scheme prior to the initiation of the Reform
Fund. Instead, the Arab Bank, the intermediary for the PA, handed cash in bulk to the Security
Financial Administration which paid the personnel in question. This practice, generally susceptible
to corrupt practices, was discontinued. Since March 2004, all salary payments to all public
employees are being executed through direct deposits to individual bank accounts.             This
constitutes a significant step forward in improving financial management of the largest component
of public expenditures.

Additionally, in June 2003 to Council of Ministers issued a directive for the retirement of PA
employees at the age of 60 within the civil service. In 2004, 471 employees were retired. This is



                                                - 7 -

also positive step forward. In addition, 266 exemptions have been granted for key staff as
authorized in the cabinet decision. No civil servants older than 60 years old are in active service
without an exemption.

Limiting the growth of the wage bill, but ensuring the adequate funding of critical expenditures

Satisfactory

The numbers indicate that the aggregate targets have been met. The PA lists total Civil Service
net increase in 2004 at 3497 employees, which is below the agreed threshold of 3500 for
employment. In this respect, the target has been met and justifies the satisfactory rating above.

In terms of hiring composition, hiring in Health, Education and Social Affairs constituted 97% of
total hiring. This is also consistent with the agreed benchmark. At the same time, security
personnel has accounted for an additional 427 employees.            Following consultation with the
Guidance Committee as stipulated in the Reform Fund procedures, the Bank agreed that these not
be considered new recruits.

Finally, the Council of Ministers adopted a plan to contain the wage bill through a combination of
salary and employment restraints. This plan is being implemented, although decisions taken in the
first quarter of 2005 (in particular regarding security services salaries and pensions) may undercut
its long term viability. The PA has committed to incorporate the wage bill containment plan in a
medium term fiscal management plan as a mid 2005 benchmark and requested Bank and Fund
assistance to develop this plan. The target for non-wage expenditures for social services was met.

Encouraging the development of a unified, transparent pension system for public servants.

Satisfactory

A National Pension Committee was created, headed by the Minister of Finance and encompassing
a wide array of stakeholders, including members of the security services, members of the PLC,
judges and a number of key ministries. The committee was tasked with the development of a
unified pension law for both civil services and security services, including appropriate governance
structures, benefits, accounting and reporting, financial management requirements. A satisfactory
draft law was approved by the Committee, thereby meeting the requirements under the Reform
Program. For this reason, the ICR feels a satisfactory rating is warranted.

However, several measures have been taken after the closing of the operation that put in doubt
the sustainability of the pension reform effort (see section on sustainability below).


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable



                                                 - 8 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest

The public financial management systems has been strengthened by carrying out various reform
measures. With regard to the institutional impact, the following are the most important: PLC
oversight over the budget, the preparation of a consolidated PA statements of fiscal operations
that largely follow CFAA recommendations, and MOF oversight over all purchases made by PA
agencies and entities.

At the same time, the establishment of the external audit function has progressed slowly and the
institutional framework for the pension system is not yet adequately defined and finalized. A
reinvigorated effort is required in these areas for the Reform Program to have a significant impact
.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The intifada has had a major impact on the PA. When the Government of Israel (GOI), in
December 2000, suspended its monthly transfer of clearance revenue, the PA plunged into deep
fiscal crisis. Donors stepped up budget support which totalled over US$ 1 billion in 2001-2.
However, such support dwindled significantly in 2003. The PA was forced to cut non-salary
expenditures to a minimum. Delivery of services to the population suffered accordingly. Though
budget support increased in 2004 and GOI transferred clearance revenue regularly, the fiscal
situation remained precarious.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

With unemployment soaring to 31 percent in 2002, public sector employment became a critical
element in containing the social crisis.          Budget support, which helped sustain public sector
employment thus also mitigated the impact of the intifada on poverty. Consequently, however,
staffing levels in both the civil service and security continued to rise throughout the intifada.
Moreover, the PA exacerbated the wage pressure on the budget by implementing half the salary
increase mandated by the 1998 Civil Service Law.                 The achievements in public financial
management were therefore partially undermined by a worsening fiscal position. Controversy
over the largely ineffective General Control Institute has also delayed the establishment of the
external audit function.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Overall the implementing agency performed well in pursuing a very ambitious reform program in
particular regarding benchmarks under its control. This is especially the case with regard to the
public financial management reforms. Cooperation with other PA entities proved more difficult, at



                                                     - 9 -

times. This however did not have a material impact on the achievement of most benchmarks.

The reform program has placed a significant burden on the MOF which led to sometimes
inadequate reporting practices. Nevertheless, the MOF submitted all benchmarks documentation
in a satisfactory manner, held close contacts with the Bank's Reform Fund team and facilitated and
participated in the joint donor missions.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total disbursements under the Reform Fund was US$ 103.4 million in 2004. One dollar from
the Bank thus leveraged five dollars in Reform Fund contributions. The US$ 20 adjustment
operation was provided in grant form and disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness. For 2005,
the Bank estimates firm contributions of around US$ 180 million.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely

The Reform Fund provides a means for systematic monitoring, evaluation and dialogue with the
Palestinian Authority. Given the participation of several donors in support of the PA's reform
program, it is important that the achievements are sustained. In this regard, two prior actions and
four mid-2004 benchmarks are being regularly monitored beyond their initial period, to ensure
continued compliance.

The public financial management reforms, which are the bulk of the program under consideration,
are likely to be sustainable. The strengthening of the financial management system and reduction
of various loopholes are not likely to be reversed. Increased PLC oversight over the budget, both
in terms of prior and post review, the MOF procurement oversight, PIF arrangements and the
external audit function once established are also unlikely to be reversed. These are important
steps and warrant the likely rating above.

Sustainability of the actions related to the public sector employment and pension reform are
currently less certain. In the period under review for this ICR, the PA maintained control over
the public sector employment on the whole, although the increase of salaried security service
personnel required Guidance Committee endorsement. Within the parameters of the wage bill
containment plan, the salary increase recently agreed by the PLC will only be implemented if it is
considered financeable, including through the reduction of security services personnel. However,
the PA has so far been unable to exert full control over the security services.

Other issues have emerged with regards to the pension reform. A pension law for security service
personnel age 45 and above (around 5% of personnel) has recently been approved by the PLC.
This law provides generous benefits and establishes an ineffective governance structure.
Furthermore, the PLC has revised the initially satisfactory unified pension law such that benefits,
contribution rates and governance structures risk undermining the reform effort.



                                               - 10 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The Reform Fund is a two-year ongoing instrument which operates with six-monthly benchmarks.
Should the PA so request, and donors consent, it may be extended until the PA's fiscal situation
stabilizes at more sustainable levels.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Highly Satisfactory

Technically, the project design was sound. The Bank correctly identified the problems facing West
Bank and Gaza and established the Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund. The
Reform Fund mitigates the reputational and financial risk for any one donor, including the Bank.
It also helped leverage the Bank's reputation as an impartial technical advisor to coalesce donors
around very practical, clear and achievable goals in what had become a potentially controversial
area for the Palestinian Authority.

Furthermore, this operation was prepared in close collaboration between the Country
Management Unit and the Task Team. This allowed it to be prepared in a very short period of
time (about two and a half months, from identification to Board), at little cost.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory

Supervision of this operation was undertaken both by the task team and the Bank's Reform Fund
team. Donors agreed to finance Bank supervision costs for the Reform Fund. Throughout
implementation the Bank consulted with and remained in close contact with donors both at
headquarters and in the field.      In the context of the Reform Fund, other donors contributed to
project supervision thereby ensuring a concerted approach and follow up.         Given the complex
nature of the program under consideration, additional dedicated assistance from the Country
Office could have facilitated deeper interaction with the Palestinian Authority, leveraging the
MOF's own scarce resources. The Bank is actively seeking to address this issue.

On the whole, however, there was very close contact, involvement and cooperation with the PA
counterparts and donors which is a central element of the current success enjoyed by the Reform
Fund.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory

In a highly complex environment, the project design took into account the need to deliver


                                                  - 11 -

assistance rapidly. It further ensured that risk was managed adequately. The instrument chosen
provided enough flexibility in the event of a crisis to scale support up or down quickly. While
Bank supervision could have benefited from more systematic assistance by dedicated staff in the
country office, the overall program supervision, led by the Bank and with the assistance of
participating donors, was careful, systematic and adequate.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory

Prior to the operation, the PA had carried out significant improvements in its Public Financial
Management system as documented in the Bank's CFAA. Building on the CFAA, the PA devised
a program to deepen public financial management reform in tandem with the preparation of the
Reform Fund. Critical factors behind the success of the Reform Fund and accompanying
adjustment operation has been the PA ownership of the reform program and the fact that they
support a reform program as the PA articulates it. The ongoing work, the communication with
the donor community, the day to day involvement in the preparation of the program was
extensive.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory

The PA made important efforts to achieve prior actions which allowed for presentation of the
adjustment operation to the Board. It was in general successful in meeting benchmarks associated
under the Reform Fund. These are important achievements and constitute a significant step
forward in increasing transparency and curbing corruption.

In the areas where long-term sustainability of the benchmarks is at risk (wage bill and pension
reform), the PA has made every effort to limit this risk. For instance, upon intervention by the
PA, the PLC revised the draft security service pension law such that it no longer fatally
undermines the unified pension law and is no longer unfinanceable. Nevertheless, except with
regards to public procurement and the introduction of direct deposit scheme, the PA has been
unable to fully implement the reform measures with regard to the security services under the
period under review.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory

The Ministry of Finance was a constructive counterpart for the Bank and the donors throughout
preparation and implementation. It was effective in managing the program despite recurrent fiscal
pressures.   The reform program has placed a significant burden on the MOF which led to
sometimes inadequate reporting practices. The Bank was able to engage MOF openly when
problems arose and MOF subsequently undertook mitigating measures as needed (for example,



                                               - 12 -

regarding the preparation of a medium term fiscal management plan).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory

The PA demonstrated willingness and ability to confront difficult issues related to transparency,
accountability, budget execution, pension reform and public sector management. In this highly
complex environment, the PA was not able to address all issues in the same manner to ensure
sustainability. However, it remains committed to pursue its reform program. At the same time,
the PA has significantly improved revenue performance. Revenues have increased during 2004,
reinforcing the PA reform efforts.

8. Lessons Learned


General Lessons

Impact through ownership. Support of an already ongoing reform process provides legitimacy
and increases commitment to project development objectives, which facilitates implementation.
Ensuring ownership is a critical ingredient for keeping an operation on track in the face of adverse
macro-economic circumstances.

Continuity and flexibility in implementation. The Reform Fund enables the Bank to accompany
the PA's reform program beyond the life of the adjustment operation. This creates an opportunity
for the Bank and the PA to establish a track record with regard to assistance and performance,
respectively. Furthermore, the system of six-monthly benchmarks provides an opportunity to
adjust the reform measures in response to changing circumstances.

Leveraging Bank analytical work. The Bank's AAA program played a key part in helping the PA
prepare and internalize the necessary reforms. This program included the CFAA, a Country
Procurement Assessment Review, and a series of Economic Assessments. The benchmarks drew
heavily on the findings from this body of work.

Donor coordination. The adjustment operation, and the accompanying Reform Fund are based
on a common performance assessment framework and a joint review process, which harmonize
general budget support of nine donors. This is a major achievement of the Bank which has
benefited the client in terms of leveraging funds and building credibility for reform. Several donors
could would not have provided budget support if it had not been for the Bank-administered
Reform Fund. For the Bank and the donors, it has helped mitigate risks in a complex and
sensitive environment, and has reduced the supervisory burden on each of the bilateral donors.

Keeping reforms simple and realistic. While the overall reform program is quite ambitious, the
Bank kept individual benchmarks simple and realistic. However, these were not "easy" measures
but rather aimed at improving specific shortcomings in the PA's public financial management
system. The Reform Fund set-up also made possible a gradual and progressively deeper reform



                                                - 13 -

process where later benchmarks built on the achievement of earlier ones.

Addressing, not avoiding critical issues. Benchmarks related to the security services have
arguably been the most difficult to implement. At the same time these were a critical element of
the PA's reform program. The Bank was able to approach these from a public financial and
expenditure management perspective and was assisted by the IMF and several bilateral donors.
This support was important to the PA to steadily, albeit slowly, assume greater control over the
security services through the reform program.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The PA reviewed the ICR and had no comments.               At repeated occasions the PA formally
expressed its appreciation to the Bank for its effort in support of the public financial management
reform program. While disbursement from the Reform Fund remained below expectations in
2004, expected contributions in 2005 have already almost doubled, reinforcing the value of this
instrument to the PA.

(b) Cofinanciers:

As explained above, the operation was complemented by the establishment of the Public Financial
Management Reform Trust Fund to which eight donors have pledged a total of US$280 million.
While no comments have been received donors have repeatedly expressed their appreciation to
the Bank for its lead role in this effort. Donors have also commended the Bank for management of
the process, although some concerns have been raised especially surrounding the identification of
benchmarks. Nevertheless, growing number of contributing donors is testimony to the
attractiveness of this instrument and reflects well on the Bank's performance.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



           Indicator/Matrix                              Output Indicators                            Outcome Indicators                 Actual/Latest
                                                                                                                                           Estimate
Prior to Board Approval

Prior Action No. 1: Submission to the       Enhanced PLC influence over budget            Greater transparency and improved             Target
Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) and formulation in 2004.                            responsiveness of the budget to public        met
passage of the PA Budget Law for 2004.                                                    priorities, as articulated by the PLC.

Prior Action No. 2: Submission to the                                                     Greater transparency and account-ability in   Target
PLC of statements on the PA's fiscal        Improved PLC oversight over budget            the utilization of public resources.          met
operations in 2002.                         implementation for 2002.

Prior Action No. 3: Full implementation of
the 2004 Budget Law's requirement that      Accurate, timely information on public        Improved establishment control, human         Target
the salary payments of all PA security      employee staffing and wages and reduced       resource and financial management.            met
personnel be directly deposited into        payroll irregularities.
individual bank accounts.

Prior Action No. 4: Completion and          Accurate record of current financial position Better management and control of public       Target
publication of the final report of the      of PA equity holdings.                        enterprises and their liabilities.            met
valuation of assets of the Palestine                                                      Transparency concerning the PA's financial
Investment Fund (PIF).                                                                    holdings.

Prior Action No. 5: Full compliance with    Constrain the growth of the wage bill by                                                    Target
the 2004 Budget Law in relation to public   limiting the increase in civil service        Help ensure budget sustainability and the     met
sector hiring, which should not exceed      employment and payroll to selected            availability of adequate resources for capital
programmed net additional hiring of 3,500   positions in the social sectors.              and non-wage recurrent expenditure.
personnel to be allocated as follows: (a) at
least 90% of these positions to the social
sector ministries (Health, Education,
Social Affairs) and for Reform
Program-related needs; and (b) the
remaining 10% to other civil service
entities.




           Indicator/Matrix                            Output Indicators                      Outcome Indicators                Actual/latest Estimate
Mid-2004 Indicators

1. Adoption by the Council of Ministers of Constrain the growth of the wage bill       Help ensure budget sustainability and Target met
an Action Plan to contain the wage bill.    from 2004-2006 by limiting the increase the availability of adequate resources
                                            in civil service employment and payroll. for capital and non-wage recurrent
                                                                                       expenditure.

2. Best efforts to adhere to a minimum      Reinforce Emergency Services Support Ensure that critical social sector           Target met
quarterly level of NIS 160 million in       Program (ESSP).                            services are protected during current
essential non-salary social recurrent                                                  financial crisis.
expenditures.

                                            Create an independent audit body with      Enhanced transparency and              Target met
3. Submission to the PLC of a revised       an adequate legal mandate to cover all     accountability in the use of public




                                                                     - 15 -

External Audit Law which would ensure         PA budget activities.                  resources.
compliance by a new auditing institution
with the provisions of the Basic Law
(independence of the institution,
responsiveness to the PLC), and clear
responsibility for auditing all PA
institutions' budget execution reports.       MoF ensures successful implementation accountability in procurement, leading Target
                                                                                     Improved transparency and                    met

4. The assumption of full jurisdiction by the of the General Procurement Law for all to better quality and improved cost
Department of Supplies and Tenders in thePA       ministry and agency purchases.     savings for the PA.
Ministry of Finance over all purchases
made by PA ministries and agencies,
including the Security Financial                                                     Develop a unified, transparent,
Administration.                               Submit pension legislation to the PLC  financially sustainable pension       Target met
                                              and implement effective reform plan.   system for public servants.
5. Approval by the National Pension
Committee of a detailed outline of a
pension reform program and a draft
Pension Law, including implementation
regulations, setting out the parameters,
institutions, and management of a unified                                            Reduced wage bill and enhanced flow
and sustainable public sector pension         Improved establishment control and     of resources to capital and non-wage  Target met
scheme.                                       human resource management practices; expenditures.
                                              strengthened adherence to existing
6. Full implementation of the Council of      guidelines.
Ministers' decision of June 2003 to retire                                           Greater transparency and
PA employees at the age of 60.                Improved PLC oversight over budget     accountability in the utilization of  Target met
                                              implementation for 2002.               public resources.

7. Submission to the PLC of statements on
the PA's fiscal operations in 2003, and PA
commitment to their external audit by the
new auditing institution (Benchmark No. 3,
above) by end-March 2005, or by external
auditors, commissioned by the PA as a
one-time stop-gap measure, by end-June
2005.




                                                                      - 16 -

- 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

NA




                                      - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               January 2004              1     COUNTRY PROGRAM
                                               COORDINATOR
                                         1     SENIOR ECONOMIST


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               May 2004                  1     LEAD PUBLIC SECTOR
                                               SPECIALIST
                                         1     SR. PUBLIC SECTOR
                                               SPECIALIST
                                         1     SR. ECONOMIST
                                         1     COUNTRY PROGRAM
                                               COORDINATOR



               June 2004                 1     LEAD SPECIALIST
                                         1     COUNTRY PROGRAM
                                               COORDINATOR
                                         1     SR. COUNTRY OFFICER


 Supervision
                                                                                    S               S
               October 2004               1    LEAD PUBLIC SECTOR
                                               SPECIALIST
                                          1    SR. ECONOMIST
                                          1    SR. COUNTRY OFFICER


 ICR
               March 2005                1     LEAD PUBLIC SECTOR
                                               SPECIALIST
                                         1     SR COUNTRY OFFICER



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       12                           60.6
  Supervision                                  3                            9.0
  ICR                                          3                            9,2
  Total                                       18                           78,8




                                               - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Board Documents

WEST BANK AND GAZA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TRUST FUND
Release of Second Tranche  Full Compliance
July 26, 2004

WEST BANK AND GAZA- PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Memorandum of the President and Technical Annex
May 11, 2004

WEST BANK AND GAZA: Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund
Memorandum of the President and Recommendation
April 22, 2004

THE TRUST FUND FOR GAZA AND THE WEST BANK:
Status, strategy and request for replenishment
December 18, 2003

Supervision Documents

Reform Fund Joint Supervision Mission Reports
l 3-6 May 2004
l 27 June- 2 July 2004
l 11-14 October 2004


Ad Hoc Liaison Committee Update:
The Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund
Status, December 2004

Other Documents

WEST BANK AND GAZA - Country Financial Accountability Assessment
June 2004




                                                - 23 -

- 24 -

