                                         Documentof
                                       TheWorld Bank

                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                        ReportNo. 28550-GZ



                INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION

                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                             FORA

                                     PROPOSEDGRANT

                         INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$20 MILLION

                                           FORTHE

                                  WEST BANKAND GAZA

                                             FORA

                   PUBLIC FINANCIALMANAGEMENT REFORM

                     STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT OPERATION


                                         May 11,2004



MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Social and EconomicDevelopmentGroup
West Bank and GazaCountry Department
MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     Currency unit    = New IsraeliShekel (NIS)
                          NIS4.54     =    US$1 (average 2003)

                                  WEIGHTSAND MEASURES

                                         Metric System

                                         FISCALYEAR

                                   January 1- December 31

                                     LISTOFACRONYMS

AHLC Ad Hoc LiaisonCommittee                  LDP            Letter o f Development Policy
CFAA Country Financial Accountability         MoF            MinistryofFinance
     Assessment
CTA  Central Treasury Account                 NIS            New Israeli Shekel
EPIP Emergency and Public Investment Plan     PA             Palestinian Authority
ESSP Emergency Services Support Program       PC             PetroleumCorporation
FY   Fiscal Year                              PCBS           Palestinian Central Bureau o f Statistics
GCI  General Control Institute                PIF            Palestine Investment Fund
GDP  Gross Domestic Product                   PLC            Palestinian Legislative Council
GNI  Gross National Income                    PPAP           Participatory Poverty Assessment
                                                             Program
GPC  General Personnel Council                ReformFund     Public Financial Management Reform
                                                             Trust Fund
GPIC Gaza Pension and Insurance               SESP           Socio-Economic Stabilization Plan
     Corporation
IAD  Internal Audit Department                TFGWB          Trust Fundfor Gaza and West Bank
IBRD InternationalBank for Reconstruction     US$            UnitedStates Dollar
     and Development
IDA  International Development Association    WB&G           West Bank and Gaza
IMF  International Monetary Fund




                    Regional Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
                           Country Director:    NigelRoberts
                              Sector Director:  Mustapha Nabli
                             Sector Manager:    Dipak Dasgupta
                        Task Team Leaders:      Robert Beschel
                                                Catherine Laurent

                                                                                 FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                         WEST BANKAND GAZA

                         PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
                           STRUCTURALADJUSTMENTOPERATION

                                             TABLEOFCONTENTS


   I. Background......................................................................................................................  .1

   11.   Macroeconomic and Fiscal Environment .......................................................................                  ..2

   111.  The Bank's Strategy inthe West Bank and Gaza.............................................................                       5

   IV.   The Public Financial Management Reform Program .......................................................                          6

   V.    The Proposed Operation ...................................................................................................      8

   VI.   RisksandMitigation.......................................................................................................     13




   ANNEXES

    Annex 1:   Economic Developments, Public Finances and Donor Assistance, 1999-2005
    Annex 2:   Current Expenditures, 2002-04
    Annex 3:   FiscalDevelopments, 2002-04
    Annex 4:   SESP Financing Requirements for 2004
    Annex 5:   International Monetary FundRelations Note
    Annex 6:   Country Financial Accountability Assessment -Executive Summary
    Annex 7:   Letter o f Development Policy and Statement o f Development Policy
    Annex 8:   Matrix o f Policy Actions for the Structural Adjustment Operation
    Annex 9    Mid-2004 Reform FundMatrix of Policy Actions




    MAP




This documenthasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients onlyin
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                             Task Team

Robert Beschel           Lead Public Sector Specialist, MNSED
Catherine Laurent        Senior Public Sector Specialist, MNSED
David Shand              FinancialManagement Advisor, OPCFM
John Wetter              Senior Country Economist, MNC04
Markus Kostner           Country Program Coordinator, MNCA4
Claw Pram Astrup         Country Officer, MNCA4
Hadi Abushakra           Lead Counsel, LEGMS
Thao L e Nguyen          Finance Officer, LOAGl
Ayman Abu-Haija          Senior Financial Management Specialist, MNACS
Thao L e Nguyen          Financial Officer, LOAGl
Rina Harpinder Oberai    ResearchAnalyst, LCC3C
Mary Lou Gomez           Senior Program Assistant, MNSED
Alexandra Sperling       Senior Program Assistant, MNSED


                           Peer Reviewers

Adrian Fozzard           Senior Public Sector Specialist, EASPR
Jan Walliser             Senior Country Economist, AFTP4

                            WEST BANKAND GAZA

               PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
                 STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION

                                OperationSummary

Recipient:             Palestinian Liberation Organization for the benefit o f the
                       Palestinian Authority

ImplementingAuthority: MinistryofFinance ofthe PalestinianAuthority

Amount:               US$ 20 million

Terms:                 Grant from the Trust Fundfor Gaza and West Bank

Description:           This is an emergency structural adjustment operation being
                      processed in parallel with the Public Financial Management
                       Reform Trust Fund. It supports the same reform program and
                       requires the same prior actions for Board presentation.         This
                       operation recognizes the very significant progress that the
                       Palestinian Authority has made in improving the quality o f its
                       financial management and supports further improvements in this
                       area.

Benefits:              The operation is intended to provide budgetary support to the
                       Palestinian Authority during a period o f acute economic and fiscal
                       crisis. It will help leverage contributions from other donors by
                       encouraging them to channel their funding through the new trust
                       fund. It will help the PalestinianAuthority avoid fiscal insolvency,
                       contribute to the economic rehabilitation o f the West Bank and
                       Gaza, and help advance the broader hope for peace and stability in
                       the region.

Risks:                 There are both internal and external risks to the program.
                       Internally, there are two risks worth noting in this context. The
                       first is the risk to the good management o f funds. However, as the
                       Bank's recent       Country Finance Accountability        Assessment
                       discusses, a number o f recent improvements-including          those
                       relating to the internal audit, financial control and payroll
                       functions-give     adequate assurance that actual expenditures will
                      be made against eligible and budgeted expenditures. There i s also
                       a political and administrative risk that the Palestinian Authority's
                      public     financial   management   reform program could lose
                      momentum and stall. Externally, there i s a risk that the Palestinian
                      Authority will be unable to obtain enough funding to cover its
                       revenue gap, placing its effective operation in doubt. The region

                    could witness a broader deterioration in the overall political and
                    economic environment, which would undermine the Palestinian
                    Authority's recent improvements in financial management and
                    seriously impair its ability to adhere to the agreed benchmarks.

Disbursement:       The grant would be disbursed in one tranche in an amount
                    equivalent to US$20 millionupon effectiveness.

PovertyCategory:   N/A

ProjectID Number:   SF-PO88754

Map Number:         IBRD27791

                            PROGRAMDOCUMENT FOR A
                   PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
        STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION OF US$20MILLION
                           FOR THE WEST BANKAND GAZA



1.      The proposed Public Financial Management Reform Structural Adjustment
Operation is for the equivalent o f US$20 million for the West Bank and Gaza (WB&G).
The operation is closely aligned with the Public Financial Management Reform Trust
Fund(hereafter the Reform Fund), which was approved by the Boardon April 22, 2004.
It will be financed by a grant from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB).
The operation seeks to provide badly needed budget support to the Palestinian Authority
(PA) that will help leverage additional donor resources and allow the PA to continue
deliveringvital services. It will also contribute to sustaining momentum on the Ministry
of Finance's (MoF) impressive financial management reform agenda. In helping to
sustain the PA and avoid the threat o f insolvency, the operation will contribute to the
economic rehabilitation o f the WB&G and make a modest contribution to the broader
hope for peace and stability inthe region.


                                    I.Background

2.      The recent intifada and Israeli security measures have had a profoundly adverse
impact upon the Palestinian economy and led to an estimated cumulative gross domestic
product (GDP) decline o f 28 percent from 2000 to 2002. Although this decline was
partially reversed in 2003, the nature o f this recovery is fragile. Unemployment rates
remain high, and real per capita incomes are more than 30 percent below their pre-
intifada level. The PA's fiscal position remains extremely precarious. Infiscal year (FY)
2004, it i s currently facing an anticipateddeficit o f Us$650 million (around 38 percent o f
total projected expenditure), or a gap o f approximately US$54 million per month that
cannot be filled through internal resources.

3.      Within the WB&G and broader donor community, the provision of budgetary
support i s widely regarded as vital in allowing the PA to meet its current expenditures
and continue to deliver critical services to its citizenry.      Budget support i s also a
relatively efficient tool for sustaining Palestinian livelihoods. In addition to its role in
providing emergency support, such aid can help facilitate the PA's broader reform
agenda, including the admirable progress that the PA has made in improving its financial
management.

4.      For these reasons, the Board recently approved the establishment o f the Reform
Fund for the WB&G. Alongside this Reform Fund, the Bank's assistance strategy for
WB&G includes US$20 million for budget support, which would be prepared as an
adjustment operation under Operational Directive 8.60 and funded out o f the TFGWB.
Fundswould be disbursed to the Central Treasury Account (CTA) ofthe MoF against the
same benchmarks and fiduciary arrangements as the Reform Fund. This will facilitate

the Bank's efforts to leverage budget support funds from other donors on behalf o f the
PA.


                        11. Macroeconomicand FiscalEnvironment

5.      Macroeconomic Environment. After three years o f negative growth (2000-
2002), the Palestinian economy emerged in 2003 from recession with growth tentatively
estimated at around six percent in real GDP terms. Various elements can explain this
stabilization: less violence and fewer curfews relative to the previous year leading to an
increase in domestic job creation; a fiscal stimulus occasioned by the resumption o f
clearance revenue transfers; an increase in construction activity; and growth in Israel.
The extent to which this fragile improvement can be sustained will depend greatly upon
the politicalhecurity situation and the extent to which the movement o fpeople and goods
within the West Bank andGaza andto andthrough Israel are eased.

6.      The Palestinian economy continues to function well below its potential. Real per
capita GDP i s estimated to be 37 percent below its level in 1999. Unemployment
remains high, averaging 23.8 percent in the West Bank and 29.2 percent in Gaza during
2003, and most recently rising to 24.6 percent and 29.8 percent respectively in the first
quarter o f 2004. (An additional four to five percent o f the working age population are
"discouraged" workers, so pessimistic over employment prospects that they have stopped
looking for work and hence are no longer labor force participants or counted as
unemployed.) Productive capacity, damaged during the course o f military operations and
further hindered due to internal closures, has not yet recovered.                Private investment
remains depressed, concentrated in housing and some one-off infrastructure repair.
Surveys o f business and establishment managers predict little, if any, increase in capital
formation over the coming year.

7.      The economic improvement in 2003 and continued significant levels o f
international emergency assistance suggests a decrease in poverty levels, although a
significant proportion o f the population still remains below the poverty line with a
portion in deep poverty. As o f December 2003 the proportion o f the population living
below the official poverty line (approximately US$2.2 a day per person) stood at 40
percent o f the population-approximately          1.5 million people-according       to a household
budget survey conducted by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS) in
collaboration with the World Bank.' This rate might represent a lower bound estimate o f
poverty for 2003 as a whole, as consumption levels are generally higher during winter
months. The World Bank's macroeconomic model estimates the poverty rate at around
45 to 50 percent in 2003, down from 50 to 55 percent in 2002. An estimated 16 percent
o f the population (approximately 600,000 persons) cannot afford the basic food and non-
food subsistence minimumo f US$lS O per person per day.




'"Main Findings o f the Poverty Survey in Palestine," Press Release, PCBS, December 2003. The World
Bankis currently preparing a PovertyUpdate that is scheduled for release inJune 2004.


                                                   2

                                                  Table 1
                                Selected Macroeconomic Estimates

                                                     1999         2000        2001      2002    2003
Gross Domestic Product, US$ million                 4,178       4,116        3,329     2,831   3,144
Private Consumption, US$ million                    4,050        3,930       3,369     2,713   3,051
Public Consumption, US$ million                       993        1,112       1,019       955   1,019
Investment,US$ million                              1,811        1,345         745       736     842
Exports, US$ million                                  685          658         535       442    441
Imports, US$ million                                3,360       2,929        2,340     2,015   2,208


Real GDP growth (%)                                  8.8%       -5.6%      -14.8%     -10.1%   6.1%
Cumulativedecline since 1999                         0.0%       -5.6%      -19.5%     -27.7%  -23.2%
Cumulativedecline since 1999, per capita             0.0%       -9.5%       -26.4%    -37.3%  -36.6%


Net Factor Income, US$                                756          671         383       333     416
Net Current Transfers, US$ a/                         375          576         925      1,108  1,424


Population(million)                                   2.83        2.95        3.09      3.26    3.42
Exchangerate (NIS:US$)                                4.14        4.08        4.21      4.74    4.55
Gross National Income(GNI) per capita, US$          1,763        1,640       1,201       971   1,041
Consumer price inflation (%)                         5.5%         2.7%        1.2%      5.7%    4.4%
 Source: World Bank Staff calculations and Palestinian Central Bureau o f Statistics (PCBS).
Notes: a/ includes (negative and positive) transfers o f withheld clearance revenues.

8.       Fiscal crisis. The intifada has had a profound impact on the PA's fiscal profile.
Lowered domestic revenue commensurate with the overall decline in economic activity,
increased expenditures (particularly wage expenditure),                      and the withholding o f
"clearance revenue" transfers due to the P A by Israel (VAT, customs duties, and excise
taxes) have transformed a budget surplus o f US$62 million in 1999 (and a rough balance
for the first nine months o f 2000) to deficits o f US$826 million in 2001 and US$714
million in 2002.* Over these two years, donors provided US$1,034 million in budget
support. Nevertheless, the combined residual deficit reached over US$506 million and
was financed primarily by commercial bank borrowings and growing arrears to the
private sector and public sector pension fund. The revenue situation improved markedly
in 2003, mainly due to the resumption of monthly Israeli transfers of clearance revenues
beginning in December 2002.              However, donor budget support also fell sharply to
US$230 million, leaving the PA with a budget deficit after external financing o f over
US$330 million in2003 (see Annex 1).

9.       In 2003, domestic revenue collection o f US$275 million exceeded budgetary
expectations by more than 20 percent-the               result o f improvements in tax administration
and collection in spite o f the difficult environment. The 2004 Budget envisages further
improvements; the US$298 million in domestic revenue forecast by the Budget i s 8.2

  These deficit figures are before external financing.


                                                      3

percent above 2003's actual receipt^.^              Additional revenue in 2003 resulted from the
takeover by the MoF o f the Petroleum Commission, which coupled with changes in
management and pricing policies, led to higher sales o f petroleum products and sharp
increases in excise revenues.             Monthly clearance revenue transfers are projected at
US$42 million, or US$508 million for the year-an                        improvement o f 7.8 percent
compared to actual 2003 revenues. Total 2004 revenue is projected at US$806 million,
or US$67 million per month.

10.       P A current expenditures in 2004 are projected to amount to US$1,307 million
(see Annexes 2 and 3), with wages representing 63 percent or US$828 million. PA-
financed capital expenditures are projected at US$18 million. The PA'S net lending to
municipalities, primarily in order to cover their outstanding utility payments to Israeli
providers, i s US$120 million.            Total PA expenditures in 2004 are thus estimated at
US$1,445 million, or US$120 million per month.

11.       Throughout the intifada, the PA (and, implicitly, donors through their budget

protection measure with significant macroeconomic and welfare benefit^.^ While such a
support) have recognized the importance o f public sector employment as a social

strategy might be viewed as appropriate under emergency conditions, there now exists a
compelling need for strict limits on further expansion o f public sector employment
(beyond increases in social service sectors reflecting population growth), as well as wage
containment consistent with overall budgetary constraints.                    In 2003, the wage bill
increased to US$743 million. Wages represented 68 percent o f current expenditures, up
from 56 percent in 1999. The 11.4 percent increase in gross wages in the 2004 budget
compared to 2003 actual expenditures represents the partial and delayed implementation
of the wage adjustments mandated by the 1998 civil service law.                                 Complete
implementation i s expected to be postponed at least throughthe remainder o f this year.

12.       Out o f necessity, a strategy o f constraining non-wage expenditure to its absolute
minimum was used extensively in 2003. Actual spending was US$350 million, or 78
percent of 2003's budgeted amount. Inorder to meet salary payments inthe first quarter
2004, the PA has already fallen behind in its budgeted non-wage expenditures, averaging
US$22.4 million monthly in January-March compared to the US$39.8 million projected.



  While this projected amount is 21 percent below the level o f domestic revenue collected in 1999, as a
share o f GNI it is actually an increase, since the cumulative decline in nominal GNI over the period 1999-
2004 is forecast at 22.4 percent.
  Of the 125,000 PA employees at end-2002, the salaries of 75,000 were effectively hnded by donors-an
amount equivalent to 28 percent o f all wages paid inWest Bank and Gaza in2002. This support translated
into the direct employment of 15 to 18 percent o f those with jobs that year and, perhaps, a similar number
indirectly employed in the domestic private sector. With an average household size of 6.4, these 75,000
workers supported a minimumo f480,000 people. Counterfactual analysis by the World Bank suggests that
in the absence of such support, an additional 100,000 persons would have fallen into poverty.          This
relatively low figure results from the fact that most households relying on public wages were already
slightly below the poverty line. Indeed, according to IMF data, the average net PA wage per worker per
month was US$392.8 in December 2002, the equivalent to US$2.0 per day per capita. Thus the average
PA wage was not sufficient to cover basic consumption needs estimated at US$2.1 per day per capita (the
poverty line) in 2002.


                                                      4

Inthe event of continued financing shortfalls, the figure o f US$478 programmed in the
2004 budget would probably not be reali~ed.~

13.       Looking forward, a viable, sustainable fiscal scenario can only be achieved inthe
context o f more favorable political developments. The projected 2004 budget gap after
other financing amounts to US$650 million. Were donor budget support in 2004 not to
exceed the 2003 level o f about $230 million, the PA would likely experience
considerable difficulty sustaining a coherent expenditure program. In recent years, the
P A has employed various strategies to cover the shortfall in the budget, including
accumulating arrears to the private sector and deferring social security payments
(including pensions), curtailing non-salary expenditures, and borrowing from commercial
banks. While the repayment o f most o f the stock of withheld clearance revenues helped
temporarily reduce arrears to the private sector, these have again started to accumulate,
with the total stock of arrears reaching US$384 million by end-2003 (equivalent to 12
percent o f estimated GDP).6 The stock o f the PA's debt to banks totaled another US$176
million at end-December 2003 (5.4 percent o f GDP), and has increased further to
US$263 million by end-March 2004.


                      111. The Bank's Strategy inthe West BankandGaza

14.       The Bank's strategy in WB&G has undergone considerable evolution during the
last three years in response to changing needs and the deteriorating situation on the
ground. Like other donors, the Bank has gradually placed more emphasis on efforts to
manage the emergency. At the same time, the Bank has sought to balance its near-term
response to the current hardships confronting the Palestinian people with a continued
focus on the medium and long-termdevelopment agenda.

15.       An update o f the Bank's strategy in WB&G was presented to the Board in
December 2003.'          While recognizing the necessity for the Bank to remain flexible and
adaptive to the ever-changing circumstances, the strategy stressed inter alia the Bank's
role in strengthening Palestinian capacities for the delivery o f basic services to the poor,
which has become an area o f particular importance in the current emergency.                         The
strategy also emphasizes retaining a focus on the development o f efficient and transparent
institutions and sound economic and financial policies, which will help to lay the
foundation for institutional sustainability and future statehood.                       This strategy is
underpinnedby the Bank's acknowledged reputation as a technically sound, non-political


 Recognizing that there is a limit to the extent to which non-wage current expenditure can be postponed or
foregone before critical service delivery is impaired, the World Bank's Emergency Services Support
Project is specifically designed to safeguard spending on education, health, and social welfare.
  The total o f the stock of clearance transfers withheld by Israel between December 2000 and November
2002 amounted to over US$560 million, of which all but US$180 million have been repaid (see also Annex
3) The remaining sums have been "attached" by Israeli courts to various pending civil cases against the
'PalestinianAuthority.
  The strategy was encapsulated in two presidential memoranda to the Board: West Bank and Gaza: The
Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank: Status, Strategy and Request for Replenishment (Resolution
NO.03-193 and IDA 03-208), December 2, 2003; and Proposed Extension of the Moratorium on Service
Payments; and Proposed Amendment on Re-jlows, December 18,2003.


                                                      5

actor, which enables it to play a leadership role within the donor community through
timely and innovative operations and analytic work.

16.     In the run-up to the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee (AHLC) meeting in Rome in
December 2003, the Bank assisted the PA indeveloping its Socio-Economic Stabilization
Plan (SESP). The SESP outlined a US$l.2 billion program o f donor financing for 2004.
The SESP placed strong emphasis upon the importance o f budget support, which at
US$650 million was the single largest item for which financing was being sought. A
breakdown o f SESP Financing Requirementsfor 2004 i s provided inAnnex 4.

17.    At the AHLC meeting, the Bank was asked by the PA to establish a mechanism
for channeling donor budget support. This led to the establishment o f the Reform Trust
Fund, which was approved by the Board on April 22, 2004. At the AHLC meeting, the
Bank also indicated its willingness to leverage donor funds for budget support by making
a contribution o f its own inthe form o f an adjustment operation financed on a grant basis.

18.    The proposed adjustment operation in this memorandum i s fully consistent with
the Bank's strategy in WB&G. (As noted in Annex 5, an Assessment Letter has been
requested from the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, and will be distributed
separately prior to Board discussion). Together with the donor funds leveraged for the
Reform Fund, this trust fund will help to secure badly needed financing for the PA's
budget. It will help the P A to continue to deliver basic services and play an important
role in maintaining momentum on the financial management reform agenda outlined
below.


                IV. The PublicFinancialManagementReformProgram

19.    The PA has implemented a Public Financial Management Reform Program with
two principal objectives. The first i s to further improve the PA's financial management
systems within a broader national reform agenda. The second is to provide budgetary
and fiduciary assurances to donors sufficient to ensure their financial support during the
2004 and 2005 budget years. The Bank has examined these reforms in the context o f a
recent Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA).'

20.    Accomplishments. The CFAA found that impressive and highly credible
improvements in budgeting and in fiscal transparency have been introduced during the
tenure o f the present Finance Minister. A detailed summary o f these findings i s provided
inAnnex 6. Major reform initiatives include:

            The payment o f all PA revenues into a CTA, which has eliminated
            previous discretionary and non-transparent spending o f these funds.

            The exercise by the MoF of firm control over budget expenditure and
            the further development of the financial control function in the MoF
            and ministries.

 World Bank, WestBank Gaza Country Financial Accountability Assessment, May 2004 Draft.


                                              6

            The development o f a serious and comprehensive budget in FY04,
            which accounts for all revenue and sets meaningful limits on
            expenditure.

            Enhanced transparency in financial management, including the regular
            posting o f budget data. on the M o F website and the expansion o f the
            formal budget document to include more detailed information on
            topics ranging from balance o f payments to public service
            employment.

            Improved control over the civil service payroll through the MoF
            assuming responsibility for staff numbers from the General Personnel
            Council (GPC); and the payment o f salaries for all civil servants and
            security personnel through personal bank accounts (rather than in
            cash).

            The establishment o f the Palestine Investment Fund(PIF), bringing all
            PA equity holdings under MoF overview and providing for a
            centralized and commercially based management. Fiscal transparency
            has also been enhanced by the publication o f a valuation `of all PIF
            investments, and by the publication o f the PIF's audited financial
            statements.

            The abolition o f the PA cement monopoly, and the direct take-over o f
            the petroleum monopoly by the MoF (it is now being audited and
            valued).

21.     The encouraging findings in the CFAA are consistent with an IMF assessment
conducted in September 2003. The IMF noted that the reform of public finance carried
out since June 2002 has been "highly significant in improving both accountability and
transparency."    The IMF went on to note, "when fully operational this system will rival
best practices inthe region."g

22.     Areas Requiring Improvement. Both the CFAA and the IMF found that
weaknesses remain relating to lack o f adequate financial statements and auditing. There
is no adequately functioning system o f external and internal audit. The external audit
institution (the General Control Institute, or GCI) reports formally only to the President
and neither reports to or i s responsive to the Palestine Legislative Council (PLC). While
it has some desirable features of an external audit organization, such as adequate
budgetary independence and the power to obtain information, its capacity and the quality
o f its work are low and its findings have no apparent impact. New legislation and a
capacity buildingprogram are urgently needed to establish an effective external auditing
body reporting to both the PLC and the President. Draft legislation is currently being
considered by the PLC which would establish a new Council o f Administrative and
Financial Control to replace the GCI.

 International Monetary Fund, WestBank and Gaza: Economic Performance and Reform under Conflict
Conditions, September 15,2003, p. 107.


                                                7

23.     Recent progress has been made in strengthening the internal audit function. An
Internal Audit Department (IAD) has been established within the MoF. A charter o f
internal auditing has been prepared to clarify the relationship between the GCI and IAD.
About 30 internal auditors within individual ministries have beentransferred to the MoF.
A program o f training and capacity building is now underway. However, a number of
challenges remain concerning the management o f personnel expenditures and the need to
complete a comprehensive audit o f the payroll. Donor project financing i s generally not
integrated into the budget, and aggregate cash flow forecasting and management require
further development.

24.     Financial Management Procedures and Adjustment Lending. The World
Bank has a four-point scale for assessing the fiduciary risks inherent in public financial
management systems: low, moderate, significant and high. The WB&G CFAA has
concluded that the risk level inthe Palestinian public financial management system i s still
significant, but that it should be possible to achieve a rating o f moderate by the time of
the next CFAA ifthe proposed programo f reforms i s well-implemented. A key factor in
the current rating is the lack o f a properly functioning external audit institution. It should
be understood that that the World Bank provides budget support to many countries in
which the level o f fiduciary risk is assessed as significant or even high-presuming that
there i s a strong government commitment to needed reform. Compared with many o f
these countries, the Palestinian public financial management system shows significant
strengths. Of 26 CFAAs completed in 2003, the risk level was assessed as high in 14
countries, significant in 8 countries, moderate in3 and low inonly 1country.

25.     The CFAA also notes that the public financial management system i s judged to be
adequate insofar as the Bank's criteria and standards for approval o f a general budget
support operation (or adjustment lending) are concerned."       The major actions listed in
the CFAA are integral to the benchmarking o f the Reform Fund and form key
conditionalities in this adjustment operation. The overall reform program will
progressively encompass more issues identified by the PA as being critical for its
ongoing financial management reform process.


                                V. The ProposedOperation

26.      The strategy endorsed by the Board in December 2003 includes a financial
contribution (in the form o f a US$20 million emergency adjustment operation, hereafter
referred to as the "Adjustment Operation"), which would both be valuable in its own
right and helpful insecuring broader support for the Trust Fundamong other donors. As
noted above, this Adjustment Operation i s being processed in parallel with the Reform
Fund, and the agreed upon program of policy reforms, the matrix and the Letter of
Development Policy (LDP) are the same.




lo See the CFAA "Overall Risk Assessment" section on page 6.


                                                 8

27.      The budgetary support provided by both the Reform Fund and Adjustment
Operation will       bring a number of important benefits.           It will contribute to the
maintenance o f the P A as a functioning entity and help sustain its ongoing capacity to
manage the economy.         It will also facilitate the provision o f basic services to the
population and the maintenance o f employment and livelihood for public servants and
their dependents, who total some 480,000 or approximately 14 percent of the population
o f the WB&G. The Bank believes that budget support i s the most efficient o f all the
emergency assistance instruments currently being employed by donors (including food
aid, job creation and cash schemes), and that it has appreciable macroeconomic and
welfare benefits." Budget support i s also relatively simple to administer. Inits absence,
the PA's functioning could be further degraded, both exacerbating current levels o f
hardship as well as raising the threat o f civil chaos and diminished prospects for a peace
settlement inthe near future.

28.      The Public Financial ManagementReform Trust Fund (Reform Fund). In
recognition o f the PA's dire financial situation, the Reform Fund was approved by the
Board on a no-objection basis on April 22, 2004, as a single, multi-donor trust fund to              .
provide budget support over the next two years to the Palestinian authority.'* It has three
objectives: (1) to mobilize additional donor resources in support of the PA budget; (2) to
harmonize donor assistance inexchange for a commonly agreed reform program; and (3)
to simply administrative procedures for the PA.             The fund will be terminated on
December 31,2005.

29.      The Reform Fund will be administered in accordance with applicable Bank
policies and procedures specified inOperational Policy 14.40. As the fund administrator,
the Bank will be responsible for supervising the implementation o f the agreed reform
measures, monitoring and certifying compliance with the benchmarks, and making
disbursement decisions accordingly. There will be a local Guidance Committee chaired
by the Bank and consisting o fthe IMF and contributing or potential donors.

30.      The Guidance Committee will meet quarterly with the PA. Ifall benchmarks are
fulfilled, the Bank would release the subsequent tranche and inform the contributing
donors and the Guidance Committee accordingly. In case the PA has not complied with
all benchmarks, the Bank would assess the specific situation and consult with the
Guidance Committee and the contributing donors and seek their opinion on a possible
waiver or adaptation o f the respective benchmark(s). Should a waiver not be granted, the
release o f the next tranche would be heldback. Each authorization would remain current
for a six month period, with the first tranche running from the period o f Reform Fund
approval untilJune 30,2004.

31.      Contributions for the Reform Fund are being solicited from a variety o f donors,
and Canada and Norway have already pledged support. As o f May 2004, the projected
size o f the ReformFundis around US$130 million.

   See "Twenty-Seven Months-Intifada,  Closures and the PalestinianEconomic Crisis," the World Bank,
May 2003, Annex 1.
`* See WestBank  and Gaza: Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund, R2004-0058,IDA/R2004-
0078, April 13, 2004.


                                                 9

32.      Policy Matrix and Key Milestones. In discussions with the Bretton Woods
institutions and major potential contributing donors, the PA has specified two sets o f
benchmarks for the Reform Fund in 2004 (each covering a period o f six months), along
with a timetable for their implementation. These benchmarks are reflected inthe attached
LDP that the PA has submitted to the Bank (see Annex 7). Within the context o f the
PA's broader reform agenda, the LDP describes the PA's commitment to specific public
financial reforms, lays out a program for fiduciary strengthening and specifies
monitorable indicators for its achievement. A cover note from the Minister o f Finance
underscores that the LDP's Statement o f Development Policy i s identical to the one
utilized inthe recent Reform Fund.

Prior Actions (Both the Reform Fund and Adjustment Operation):

33.      The policy matrix for the Adjustment Operation is provided in Annex 8.
Fulfillmento fthe following five actions is the main condition for Boardpresentation, and
they will serve as the benchmarks against which the entire grant amount will be
disbursed. They include:

            Submission to the PLC and passage o f the PA Budget Law for 2004.

            Submission to the PLC o f statements on the PA's fiscal operations in2002.

            Full implementation o f the 2004 Budget Law's requirement that the salary
            payments o f all PA security personnel be directly deposited into individual
            bank accounts.

            Completion and publication o f the final report o f the valuation o f assets o f the
            Palestine InvestmentFund(PIF).

            Full compliance with the 2004 Budget Law inrelation to public sector hiring,
            which should not exceed programmed net additional hiringof 3,500 personnel
            to be allocated as follows: (a) at least 90 percent of these positions to the
            social sector ministries (Health, Education, Social Affairs) and for Reform
            Program-relatedneeds; and (b) the remaining 10 percent to other civil service
            entities.

35.      At the time o f appraisal and negotiation in early May, each o f these conditions
had been fulfilled to the Bank's satisfaction. They also serve as the prior actions against
which the first tranche under the ReformFundhas been authorized.

Mid-2004 Benchmarks (Reform Fund Only):

36.      Another set o f benchmarks needs to be fulfilled by June 30, 2004 to initiate
disbursement o f the second tranche of the Reform Fund. These conditionalities are laid
out in Annex 9. While these benchmarks will not formally be a part o f the Adjustment
Operation's conditionalities, they will be an integral part o f the PA's overall reform
program.     Their successful implementation will be tracked in the Implementation



                                             10

Completion Report for the Adjustment Operation to be completed in the Bank's FY05.
The benchmarks include:

            Adoption by the Council o f Ministers o f an Action Plan to contain the wage
            bill.

        0   Best efforts to adhere to a minimum quarterly level o f NIS 160 million in
            essential non-salary social recurrent expenditures.

        0   Submission to the PLC o f a revised External Audit Law which would ensure
            compliance by a new auditing institution with the provisions o f the Basic Law
            (independence o f the institution, responsiveness to the PLC), and clear
            responsibility for auditing all PA institutions' budget execution reports.

        0   The assumption of full jurisdiction by the Department of Supplies and
            Tenders in the MoF over all purchases made by PA ministries and agencies,
            including the Security Financial Administration.

        0   Approval by the National Pension Committee o f a detailed outline o f a
            pension reform program and a draft Pension Law, including implementation
            regulations, setting out the parameters, institutions and management o f a
            unified and sustainable public sector pension scheme.

        0   Full implementation o f the Council o f Ministers' decision of June 2003 to
            retire P A employees at the age o f 60.

        0   Submission to the PLC o f statements on the PA's fiscal operations in 2003,
            and P A commitment to their external audit by the new auditing institution
            (Benchmark #3 above) by end March 2005, or by external auditors,
            commissioned by the P A as a one-time stop-gap measure, by end-June 2005.

Downstream Reforms:

37.     Consistent with its broader reform framework, the P A i s developing a robust
reform agenda for the next three years that will entail a number o f important priorities.
Part o f this work will involve consolidating gains that have already been made, such as
ensuring the effective functioning o f the new internal audit function, or further
integratingMoF operations in the WB&G along functional instead o f geographic lines.
Ongoing work on revenue enhancement will be extended into the area of income tax.
While continuing to build upon effective reforms in line departments, efforts will be
made to adopt a more comprehensive approach to issues o f civil service reform, including
machinery of government, pay and employment, and human resource management. The
successful integration and reform o f the pension system will also remain a highpriority.
The benchmarks for later tranches under the ReformFundwill be defined in2004.




                                              11

38.       Terms and Conditions. The Adjustment Operation is being prepared under
Operational Directive 8.60 for structural adjustment credits. Inthe strategy placed before
the Board in December 2003, it was proposed that all projects under this strategy,
including this structural adjustment operation for US$20 million, be passed on to the P A
as a grant out o fthe TFGWB.13

39.       Disbursement. The grant funds will be disbursed as an adjustment operation
following the World Bank's simplified disbursement procedures. Disbursements will not
be linkedto any specific purchases. The proceeds will be disbursedinone single tranche
at effectiveness o f the Adjustment Operation against satisfactory fulfillment o f the
effectiveness conditions. The Adjustment Operation includes an undertaking by the P A
not to use the credit proceeds for expenditures against a negative list.14

40.       The Bank would disburse funds into a U S Dollar Deposit Account maintained
under the CTA o f the MoF. As the Palestinian Monetary Authority does not yet function
as a full-fledged central bank, the Deposit Account would be held with a commercial
bank, as is currently the case with the CTA. Ifneeded, the MoF would convert the U S
Dollars into New Israeli Shekels (NIS) at the prevailing exchange rate and deposit the
NIS ina separate account within the CTA.

41.       Audit. The use o fBank monies inthe Adjustment Operationwould be subject to
audit provisions that are broadly similar to those for the Trust Fund." There will be two
types o f audit. First, the PA's financial statements will be audited annually by the PA's
emergent external auditing institution, in accordance with a new External Audit Law.
The audit o f the PA's 2003 financial statements would take place by the end o f March
2005, in deference to the need to constitute the new institution. Should this for some
reason not prove possible, the P A would commission an audit by an international
accounting firm on a stop-gap basis.

42.       Second, an external auditor acceptable to the Bank will be appointed and paid for
by the PA. He or she will perform an audit o fthe Deposit Account andthe local currency
counterpart account at the MOF to ensure that all withdrawals are for legitimate
budgetary purposes in a fashion consistent with the purposes o f this grant. The audit will
comply with international standards and be completed and submitted to the Bank by the
end o f March 2005. Under the terms o f the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (which are



I3West Bank and Gaza: The Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank: Status, Strategy and Requestfor
Replenishment (Resolution NO.03-193 and IDA 03-208), December 2, 2003. Resolution No.93-11 and
IDA 93-7, as amended by Resolution     N O .95-6 and IDA 95-3, as fbrther amended by Resolution No.96-11
and IDA 96-7, statesthat the Board approves the terms o f assistance on a case by case basis.
l4This "negative list" includes items imported from non-member countries, military and luxury items, and
goods and services from a country under United Nations embargo.
IsThe Reform Fundwill be subject to three different sets o f audit arrangement. The first is the PA's own
external audit institution, the GCI. The second is an external auditor contracted by the Bank for audits o f
the deposit account within the MoF. The third-which      is not applicable for the Adjustment Operation-
will entail annual audits o f separate Bank records and ledger accounts to verify that it has administered
donor funds in accordance with the administration agreements and made disbursements against agreed
activities.


                                                     12

standard for all adjustment operations), the Bank may elect to waive this provision.
However, the Bank i s likely to require an audit inthis case.

43.    Monitoring, Supervision and Reporting.            Throughout the implementation
period o f the Reform Fund, the Bank would consult with and remain inclose contact with
donors. Field-based Bank staff would monitor the implementation o f the benchmarked
actions on a regular basis. Every quarter, the P A would prepare a progress report on the
achievement o f the benchmarks. Using these reports, the Bank would lead quarterly
technical and fiduciary supervision missions, which would review progress under the
reform program, compliance with agreed prior actions and benchmarks, budget
implementation and general economic and social developments. The first joint mission
took place in May 2004 in parallel with the appraisal and negotiation of the Adjustment
Operation.

44.    Inadditionto oversight for the Trust Fund,the WB&G Country Unit will allocate
$75,000 in FY05 towards supervision and oversight o f the adjustment operation. These
monies will cover a supervision mission (which will take place alongside a regular
Reform Fundsupervision mission) and the preparation o f an Implementation Completion
Report.


                                VI. Risksand Mitigation

45.    There are both internal and external risks to the program. Internally, there are two
risks worth noting inthis context. The first is the riskto the good management o f funds.
However, as the Bank's recent CFAA discusses, a number o f recent improvements-
including those relating to the internal audit, financial control and payroll functions-
give adequate assurance that actual expenditures will be made against eligible and
budgeted expenditures. The proposed operation will further mitigate against this risk by
relying upon audit reports by both the P A and a recognized international accounting firm,
as described above.

46.    The second internal risk is that the PA's reform program could lose momentum
and stall. Several elements o f the Reform Fund and Adjustment Operation's design are
intended to mitigate against this risk. There i s considerable ownership for the program
within the MoF. As noted above in the section on public financial management, the PA
has itself identified the reform benchmarks.      By donors choosing to channel budget
support through the Reform Fund and linking tranche releases to the achievement o f
specific benchmarks under the Reform Program, the Reform Fund also provides the P A
with a strong incentive to maintainthe pace o fthe current reform agenda.

47.    Externally, there i s a risk that anticipated donor funding may not materialize.
Under these circumstances, the PA would resort to a number o f actions, some o f which
have been utilized in the past to overcome short-term financing gaps.         The specific
strategy to be adopted will be contingent upon the size o fthe shortfall. Ifthe funding gap
i s modest, the P A would accumulate arrears to suppliers, borrow from commercial banks,
and compress non-wage expenditures while using the ESSP to ring-fence necessary



                                            13

social expenditures. A more serious shortfall would require funding only a portion o f P A
salaries. A severe, sustained shortfall would make it all but impossible for the P A to
function in its current configuration and could call its continued existence into question.

48.     Finally, the prevailing situation i s a volatile one. There i s a risk that the region
could witness a broader deterioration in the overall political and economic environment,
which would undermine the PA's recent improvements in public administration and
financial management and make continued adherence to the agreed Reform Program
benchmarks difficult to sustain.




                                               14

       0 0 0 0
       m o m o
       am""
             7




" I




               Y
               c
               mm
               9
               :
               -0
                S
                m




               c0




                 .
                  c-

h l 7

r-mhl
(oNb




( o c o a
o m c
0 3 N U




             5
             8

                                                                                        Annex 4
                                                                                     Page 1 of 1
                                   SESP Financing Requirements for 2004

                                                              Total     On-going & New Request
SESP Components                                             us $1,000   us$1,000
                                                                         Pipeline  us $1,000

1.Budget Support                                             650,000        0        650,000

2. Humanitarian and Social Assistance
2.1 Food and Cash Aid                                         55,500     14,500      41,000
2.2 Job creation and emergency municipal support              91,800     77,000      14,800
2.3 Emergencyeducation, health, and drinking water            14,300      4,000      10,300
2.4 Rehabilitationof ex-detainees                             2,800       2,800         0
Subtotal                                                     164,400     98,300      66,100

3. Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Damage
3.1 Rehabilitationof Private Building                          8,000      1,000       7,000
3.2 Rehabilitationof PrivateAgriculture Land                   8,000      1,000       7,000
3.3 Rehabilitationof Public Buildings                          5,000         0        5,000
3.4 Rehabilitationof non-buildingassests of private sector     5,000         0        5,000
Subtotal                                                      26,000      2,000      24,000

4. Public Infrastructure Development
4.1 Education, higher education, and vocational training      95,640     68,740      26,900
4.2 Health                                                    14,720      10,270      4,450
4.3 Transport facilities                                      24,700         0       24,700
4.4 Energy                                                    68,000     48,350      19,650
4.5 Water, waste water, and solid waste                       60,100     35,250      24,850
4.6 PA and local public buildings                             15,200         0       15,200
Subtotal                                                     278,360     162,610     715,750

5, Private Sector Support
5.1 Loans and Grants                                          34,500      19,000      15,500
5.2 Industrial Parks                                           1,000       1,000        0
5.3 Capacity Buildingand Research                              5,000         0        5,000
Subtotal                                                      40,500     20,000      20,500

6. Reform and Institution Capacity Building
6.1 PA government reform                                      34,200      19,200      15,000
6.2 Institutionbuilding                                        5,000         0        5,000
Subtotal                                                      39,200      19,200     20,000

Grand Total                                                  1,I98,460   302,110     896,350

                                                                   Annex 5
                                                                 Page 1 of 1

                 International MonetaryFund Relations Note




[Anassessment letter hasbeen requestedfrom the IMFandwill be distributed
  separatelybeforethe Board meeting. Fundcommentshavealready been
        incorporatedinto the MacroeconomicandFiscalsections.]

                                                                                 Annex 6
                                                                               Page 1o f 4

                     Country FinancialAccountabilityAssessment
                                  ExecutiveSummary

RecentAreas of Improvement

1. All PA revenues are now paid into the CTA, a single treasury account which brings
together all govemment revenues and provides a single pool o f funds out o f which all
expenditures are paid. This has eliminated previous non-transparent and discretionary
spending from various off-budget petroleum, tobacco and alcohol excise revenue
accounts.

2. The 2003 Budget process represented the first serious attempt in the WB&G to
develop a budget that accounts for all revenues and sets meaningful (and manageable)
limits on expenditure. The process was reinforced during 2004 Budget preparation. An
orderly systemo f budgetary appropriation is now inforce.

3. Reflecting these new and improved processes, the budget speeches and extensive
background budget data are posted on a regular basis on MoF's external website, itself a
symbol o f a new approach to transparency and improved budget management. The full
Budget documents for 2003 and 2004, which were published, include information on
economic parameters, balance o f payments, monetary aggregates, external public debt
andpublic sector employment.

4. MoF i s exercising firm control over budget expenditures-with      the obvious caveat
that the chronic post-September 2000 shortage o f Budget funds has led to strict limits on
non-wage expenditures and to continuous ad hoc adjustments, with funds often being
released by MoF on a daily basis. While far from ideal, MoF has had little other choice.
One consequence o f chronic revenue shortage and the erratic nature o f donor budget
support has been a periodic accumulation o f expenditure arrears to the PA's pension
funds and to commercial suppliers. These arrears and the short-term commercial bank
debt that the Ministry has also contracted are, however, beingtransparently handled. The
IMF is also regularly monitoring budgetexecution andthe arrears and debt situation.

5. Followingthe integration o f the separate WB&G accounting systems, monthly budget
execution reports are now being prepared and posted on MoF's extemal website within a
few days o f the end o f each month. These reports appear to provide reliable information,
although delays in closing some ministries' accounts each month mean that some o f the
information i s only preliminary.

6. A program o f placing in each ministry financial controllers who report to MoF has
been initiated. This program i s designed to ensure appropriate ex ante controls over
expenditures. A ChiefFinancial Controller position has been created inMoF to overview
and manage this important function.

                                                                                   Annex 6
                                                                                Page 2 o f4

7. In response to the weakness in the external auditing function, MoF has launched a
program to develop an ex post internal audit department inMoF. This program should be
accelerated and given strong external technical support. The need for a clear separation o f
the ex ante financial control function from expost internal auditing i s now well accepted,
and has led to recent clarifications. A Chief Internal Auditor position i s being created in
MoF to manage and develop this function.

8. Control over the civil service payroll has improved significantly. MoF has taken
charge o f the central payroll system from the GPC (the PA's central personnel agency),
and is now ina position to monitor new recruitment andpay all public sector salaries, and
thereby to contain civil service hiring. The salaries o f the PA's 74,000 civil servants
have all paid through direct deposit into personal employee bank accounts for some time.
From end March 2004 this system o f direct salary deposit has been extended to the entire
56,000 security establishment staff.

9. In the 2004 Budget, the previous large discretionary transfer appropriation for the
President's Office has been virtually eliminated (from US$49.75 million in the 2003
Budget to US$0.62 million in the 2004 Budget), with these funds instead transferred to
relevant service ministries (Health, Education and Social Affairs).

10. The establishment o f the PIF has brought all P A equity holdings, including virtually
all state-owned enterprises, under MoF oversight and within the purview o f centralized
and commercially-oriented management. An audit and valuation o f all these assets has
been completed, with outcomes published on the PIF's external website. PIF has now
published its first set o f audited financial statements (for the 2003 year), and these are
available on its website.

11. Measures have been taken to reduce PA monopolistic tendencies inthe importation o f
cement, while the management o f the PC, the PA's petroleum monopoly, has been taken
over directly by MoF. The PC i s currently under audit and valuation. These actions have
ledto the capture o f lost revenues and have diminishedopportunities for non-transparent
funds allocation or their diversion.

Areas RequiringImprovement

12. There are residual weaknesses in financial accountability which relate to the lack o f
adequate public aggregate financial statements, inadequate auditing and the undeveloped
oversight role o f the PLC. The shortcomings in the PA's audit systems mean it i s not yet
possible to confirm the reliability o f financial statements and the adequacy o f the
operation o f internal control systems.

                                                                                                   Annex 6
                                                                                               Page 3 o f4

13.      The PA has recently produceda first-ever set o fconsolidatedfinancial statements;
these are for the year 2002 and were published more than 12 months after fiscal year's
end. The previous lack o f such statements and this particular delay reflect a lack o f
qualified accounting personnel and the absence o f documented procedures for the closing
o f accounts. While these statements are a promising first attempt, they have a number o f
limitations.     The financial statements for the year 2003 offer an opportunity for
improvements. Disclosures should go beyond budget execution to cover PA debt, PA
arrears and contingent liabilities, and the PA's financial assets (including the investments
o f the PIF).

14.      There i s no adequately functioning system of audit, either external or internal.
The GCI, the external audit institution, reports formally to the President, but neither
reports to nor i s responsive to the PLC.               While the GCI's mandate contains some
desirable features of an external audit organization-such                      as adequate budgetary
independence and the power to obtain information-its                 capacity i s weak and the quality
o f its work low, and it has had no discernible effect on public accountability. New
definitional legislation and a major capacity buildingprogram are urgently needed. Draft
legislation currently being considered by the PLC would establish a new Council o f
Administrative and Financial Control to replace the GCI. The draft provides for an
independent appointment and reporting process for the Head o f the Council, for formal
reporting to the PLC as well as the President and for coverage o f all PA entities, and i s a
satisfactory basis for reforming the external audit function. Desirable improvements that
should be made to the draft in the course o f the second and third reading by the PLC
include explicit provision for auditing the PA's annual financial statements, clear
reference to the international auditing standards that will be applied, and a clarification
that compliance, financial andperformance audits will all be carried out.

15. The PLC still needs further capacity building to ensure that it has the information,
resources and experience to play a leading role infinancial accountability. The weakness
o f the GCI and the absence o f external audit reports has been a severe handicap.

16. Deficiencies in budgetary control and budget implementation remain. MoF still has
insufficient ability to control security service recruitment and staffing numbers.l6




'`Asis   true with all paragraphs in Annex 6, this statement is taken directly from the Executive Summary
o f the CFAA. As noted above, in recent months control over the civil service payroll has improved
significantly. MOF has taken charge o f the central payroll system from the GPC and is now in a position to
monitor new recruitment and pay all public sector salaries, and thereby to contain civil service hiring. Civil
servant salaries have all paid through direct deposit into personal employee bank accounts for some time.
This system o f direct salary deposit has recently been generalized to the entire security establishment, and
full compliance has been ineffect since the end-March 2004 payroll.

                                                                                Annex 6
                                                                              Page 4 of 4

17. Donor project financing is not well-integrated into the Budget (although some donors
have created sub-accounts in the CTA), and this limits the PA's ability to set clear
spending priorities and to properly budget for the recurrent cost implications of capital
expenditures. The PA has begunto address this issue through the 2004 Budget, which at
a conceptual level linked recurrent budget expenditures with an emergency, humanitarian
and developmental program for which donor financial support i s crucial (these latter
needs are detailed in the Socio-Economic Stabilization Plan 2004-5, prepared by the
Ministry of Planning with the active cooperation of MoF). Improving the operational
linkages between the recurrent and capital components o f the annual spending plan,
however, i s being hindered by donors' adherence to their own preferred financing
procedures. Unless there are good reasons to the contrary, all donor funding should be
provided through the CTA.

18. Aggregate cash flow forecasting and management by MoF's Treasury Department
requires further development. Desirable steps would include a daily rather than weekly
"sweeping" o f revenue and expenditure accounts, a further consolidation of public bank
accounts, stricter control over commercial bank borrowing and the establishment o f
systematic cash planning under a committee with representatives from the Budget,
Treasury and Revenue departments o f MoF.

                                                                                                   Annex 7
                                                                                            Page 1of 17

                                              Annex 7

     Letter of Development Policy and Statement of Development Policy

     Palestinian National Authority                                                                                   1

           J I i n h f r>of iGtinxiee                                                  JUI          P J l j J

         Office of the Miriister                                                       ej.+       +

%I           Mof/W.R/408/2004                                                                                  d$

1 )ate       4/5/2004                                                                                          &'jdL3i




             Mr. James L). Wolfen~ohn
             President
             The World Dank
             1818 1-1 Street, N.W.
             Washington. DC 20433


             Dear Mr.Wolfinsohn,


                          Subject:West Bank aid GmaPublic Fin.@.fi.cjtilMrtnawmcnt, Rcfoxmi
                                            Structurnl Ad'ustlnent 0 .eralion
                              lztter of L)cveioiGient Polilcy Addeirduni
                                                             -
             This addendum serves to confirm that our Letter of Development Policy for ttir Public
             Financial Management Reform Trust Fund, dated April 4, 2004, including thc Matrix of
             Policy Actions attached thereto, is also valid for the proposed Public f3nmiciaI
             Management Kcfnrni Structural Adjustment Operation financed by the World Bank,

             The term "Public Financial Management Reforni Structural Adjustnient Trust Fiitict" in
             this document can also be read as referring to the "Public Finiuicial Management Reform
             Structural Adjustinent Operation".

             We greatly appreciate the financial, technical and administration support provided by the
             World Bank to the refoim efforts by the Palcstini'm National Authority.


                                                                                   Sincerely.
                                                                                JLA.L!--.. --
                                                                                    Salam Friyyad
                                                                                   Ministcr of 1:inance

   Annex 7
Page2 o f 17

                                                                                   Annex 7
                                                                               Page 3 o f 17

                    STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY

                             PalestinianNationalAuthority


Background

1.      With the Intifada now in its fourth year, the situation in the West Bank and Gaza
remains bleak. Inaddition to the continuing siege, the Government o f Israel continues to
build the Separation Wall on occupied territory east o f the Green Line, threatening the
lives and livelihoods o f tens o f thousands o f Palestinians and the very foundation o f the
peace process. Ongoing widespread destruction of private homes inGaza, particularly in
Rafah Governorate, has further marginalized the most vulnerable groups in Palestinian
society. Collectively these measures have strangled the Palestinian economy, humiliated
the population, and produced the steepest declines in Palestinian income and social and
economic indicators since the beginningo f the occupation in 1967.

2.      In response to this crisis, the international donor community has marshaled
considerable financial resources to assist the Palestinian National Authority (PNA) in its
effort o f sustaining the delivery o f the most basic services to the population.     Such
support has been instrumental in ensuring the survival o f many in the growing ranks of
the poor, and is gratefully acknowledged. Yet, these efforts can only partially mitigate
the humanitarian need; a significant recovery o f the Palestinian economy cannot take
hold without the full reversal o f the suffocating measures imposed by the Government o f
Israel since September 2000.

3.      The proposed Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund for the West
Bank and Gaza recognizes the importance - and necessity - o f continued budgetary
support to the PNA. This Statement o f Development Policy further expounds on the
importance o f the proposed operation in the context of Palestinian development; the
Palestinianreform agenda; and the current economic and fiscal situation.


The DevelopmentContext

4.      Throughout the period o f emergency, the PNA has endeavored to put forward an
integrated strategy that, while designed to meet the immediate humanitarian needs o f the
Palestinian people and to stabilize the economy, also sought to focus on institutional
reform and the longer-term capacity-building and infrastructure development necessary
to lay the groundwork for economic recovery should the political situation improve.

5.      InFebruary 2003, the Emergency and Public Investment Plan 2003 (EPIP) was
endorsed by the international donor community at an Ad-Hoc Liaison Committee
(AHLC) Meeting in February. With the launch o f the Roadmap process in April, EPIP

                                                                                   Annex 7
                                                                               Page 4 o f 17


was refocused to provide financing o f immediate needs on the ground and to support the
Roadmap's implementation. This Quick Impact Intervention Program, July-December
2003 (QIIP), called for rapid disbursements partly to finance the short-term deficit inthe
PNA budget so as to maintain the health, education, and social services provided by the
PNA. In addition the plan called for an urgent program o f humanitarian and social
assistance in areas such as cash and food assistance; job creation; emergency assistance
for education, health, and shelter repair; repair of damages sustained by public
infrastructure and buildings; andprivate sector relief.

6.      At the December 2003 AHLC Meeting in Rome, the PNA put forward the
Palestinian Socio-Economic Stabilization Plan for 2004-2005 (SESP), with its twin
goals o f mitigating the effects o f the socio-economic crisis facing the Palestinian people
and maximizing the scope and pace o f economic recovery in Palestine in the context o f
an uncertain political situation.      The commitment and support o f the international
community for the SESP, crucial for the rebuilding o f the economic, social, institutional,
and psychological foundations for a just and lasting resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict, was expressed by the donors and welcomed by the PNA at the Rome meeting.

7.      The development of the SESP was based on a consultative process led by the
PNA Ministry o f Planning.       Palestinian stakeholders (PNA agencies, private sector
organizations, civil society associations) and donor community representatives, including
the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the United Nations, European
Commission and European Union, bilaterals, and non-governmental organizations and
agencies, participated in assessing the existing situation and the development o f specific
progradproject selection criteria that corresponded to the strategic goals and objectives
o fthe Government.

8.      Dueto movement restrictions and uncertainties associated with the transition from
the previous PNA government to the current one, public consultation was not as
extensive as was desired. Nevertheless, using the data developed in the Participatory
Poverty Assessment Program (PPAP) conduced by the Ministry o f Planning in 2002 it
was possible to gauge the public's priorities: The PPAP was carried out through a series
o f workshops convened at the local level, each with a focus on a particular theme (such
as health, education, municipal services), and produced considerable qualitative data that
informed the SESP planning process.          In addition, donor agencies were particularly
forthcoming in sharing their internal analysis o f the effectiveness and impact o f their on-
going programs.

9.      Six main categories o f support were defined in the SESP: 1) Support to the PNA
Budget; 2) Humanitarian and Social Assistance; 3) Reconstruction and Rehabilitation o f
Damage: 4) Public Infrastructure Development; 5) Private Sector Support; and 6) Reform
and Institutional Capacity Building. As well as meeting specific criteria developed for
each of these six categories, projects included in the SESP all satisfied three general

                                                                                               Annex 7
                                                                                         Page 5 o f 17

criteria: 1) Feasibility o f implementation in 2004; 2) Immediate positive impact on the
Palestinian population; 3) Implementation mechanisms are already existing and proven,
or in the case o f new mechanisms, offer the significant prospect o f increased efficiency
and effectiveness indelivery.

10.      The SESP identifiedtotal external financing requirements for 2004 o f US$I.                198
million. Of the total resources required for 2004, US$302 million i s coveredby on-going
projects commitments to disburse existing at the time o f SESP's release, while US$896
million was the value of new financing requests. Among the six categories, US$650
million - equal to 54.3 percent o f total financing and 72.5 percent o f new financing -was
required for budget support for 2004.17

11.      The SESP was unambiguous in its endorsement o f budget support. "Supporting
the budget of the PNA is by far the most important SESP components. The PNA
employs some 130,000 people who in turn support an estimated 550,000 family
members. The inability to pay salaries would mean much higher levels o f unemployment
and poverty. PNA employees also provide critical health, education, and social services
to the population in the Occupied Palestinian Territory and, thus, budget support allows
the continuation o f public services provision. Public sector employee's salaries are an
important part o f total consumer demand for business goods and service.                        Budget
assistance also prevents additional accumulations o f PNA arrears to the private sector
which, as the experience o f the past three years has shown, burden the private sector with
a squeeze on available liquidity. In short, budget support provides socio-economic
stability-the primaryobjectiveof the SESP."


The ReformContext

12.      Reform has been a priority on the agenda of every Palestinian Cabinet since June
2002. The reform process, initiated by President Arafat in May o f that year, culminated
inthe development and issuance ofthe "100 Days Plan ofthe Palestinian Government"
on June 23, 2002, intended to make the PNA "more efficient and effective in the service
of the national good" and paving the way towards an ongoing viable, consistent, and
dynamic process.

19.      The reform process was quickly welcomed and encouraged by the international
community, with local task forces established to monitor, support, and advance the
agenda in each o f its seven "domains" - 1) financial accountability; 2) ministerial and
civil service reform; 3) market economics; 4) judiciary/rule o f law; 5) local government;
6) elections; and 7) civil society. At the international level the International Task Force


" In addition the US$650 million for budget support,       SESP also identified US164 million for
humanitarian and social assistance; US$26 million for the rehabilitation and reconstruction o f damage;
US$278million for public infrastructure development; US$40 million for private sector support; and US$39
million for reform and institutional capacity building.

                                                                                   Annex 7
                                                                              Page 6 o f 17

on Palestinian Reform (the "Quartet plus Four" - the European Union, Russia, the United
States, and the United Nations, plus Japan, Norway, the International Monetary Fund,
and the World Bank) has met periodically (Paris, August 2002; Dead Sea, November
2002; London, February 2003; Rome, December 2003) to review achievements, pledge
needed financial and technical assistance, and to identify the obstacles obstructing hrther
progress.

14. From the beginning financial accountability has been at the front o f the reform
agenda. Of the 39 specific items in the 100 Days Plan, ten referred to items in the
financial domain:

       Reform operations inthe MoF;

       Deposit all incomes o f the Palestinian National Authority into a single Treasury
       account;

       Manage all commercial and investment operations through a Palestinian
       Investment Fund, subject to stringent standards o f disclosure and audit;

       Limit expansion o f employment in the public sector and unify payroll
       administration under the Ministryo f Finance;

       Modernize the pension scheme;

        Strengthen internal and external auditing;

       Develop the process o f preparing the general budget to include recurrent and
       developmental expenditure;

       Develop a monthly expenditure plan for the remainder o f 2002;

       Beginpreparation o f the 2003 Budget; and,

       Reorganize the financial relations between the MoF and the municipalities and
       local authorities.

       By the end of 2002, significant progress had been made in all these areas and
many achievements registered.      Most notable among them: the submission to the
Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) o f a budget for 2003; the consolidation o f all PNA
revenues into the Central Treasury Account (CTA) under the sole control o f the MoF; the
consolidation o f all PNA commercial activities into the Palestine Investment Fund(PIF);
and the strengthening o f internal auditing procedures and controls. In addition, payroll
administration was unified under the MoF, a critical step in controlling the expansion o f
employment inthe public sector.

                                                                                  Annex 7
                                                                              Page 7 o f 17

16.     The submission o f the draft PNA budget - consistent in both design and
management with the highest international standards- for the 2003 fiscal year to the PLC
on December 31, 2002, and its subsequent approval on February 1, 2003, was arguably
the most significant reform in terms o f transparency. The draft budget was published in
its entirety; committee and plenary PLC deliberations were open to the public and the
media.

17.     During2003 additional procedures were carried out by the MoF aimed at further
promoting financial accountability and transparency. Accomplishments include:

0   Undertaking a valuation and auditing o f PIF assets, and transferring of PIF profits to
  the CTA. The listing o f PIF assets and their valuation (conducted by Standard &
  Poor's), along with transparency reports (conducted by the Democracy Council), are
  publicly available on the MoF website.

0   Reforming the operations o f the public Petroleum Corporation. This involved placing
  the Corporation under the control o f the MoF, which eliminated its ability to undertake
  quasi-fiscal operations, and following a pricing strategy which, by seeking to eliminate
  the Corporation's profit margin, has led to a sharp curtailment o f smuggling. As a
  consequence, officially sanctioned sales o f petroleum products rose substantially (by
  more than 300% for some categories), thereby leadingto an increase inoil tax revenues
  that substantially exceeded the loss o f monopoly profits enjoyed prior to reform by this
  government entity.

0   Eliminating illegal fees that were imposed on lubricant oil by the Petroleum
   Corporation. Previously the Corporation took fees on each container of lubricant oil
   (30 percent in the West Bank and 20 percent in Gaza); these fees were cancelled and
  the Corporation's authority revoked regardingthis sector.

0   Audits o f payroll were initiated by the Internal Audit Department (IAD) within the
  Ministry. In addition, a comprehensive training program for the IAD was developed
   with Ernstand Young Europe and was launched inOctober 2003.

0   Salaries o f those security services personnel under the Ministry of Interior (Civil
  Police, Preventive Security, and Civil Defense), along with Intelligence in the Gaza
   Strip, started to be paid through personal bank accounts directly by the MoF, rather
  than in cash. By end-2003,23,000 security service personnel were incorporated within
  this system (approximately 40% o fthe total).

0   Completion o f a comprehensive grade reclassification in accordance with the Civil
   Service Law, further consolidating the MoF's capacity for monitoring and controlling
  public    sector   hiring and promotion.         Salary   adjustments    resulting from

                                                                                 Annex 7
                                                                             Page 8 o f 17

the re-grading exercise were implemented in a rolling fashion so as to minimize
budgetary impact.

0   Implementation o f the Judicial Authority Law No. 1 (2002) regarding the payment o f
  salaries for judges and prosecutors.

0   Cancellation inJuly 2003 o f the 6.5 percent "solidarity tax" leveled on PNA salaries,
  as well as the 2-3 days salary equivalent per month earmarked for job creation
  programs.     Henceforth, funds for emergency assistance are channeled through the
  Ministryof Social Affairs andother budget lines.

0   Issuance o f a Cabinet Decree regarding implementation o f the law o f retirement for
  employees over 60 years o f age, thereby allowing for employees who desired to end
  their service to do so, providing opportunities for employees working inthe second line
  to be promoted.

0   Establishment o f the National Pension Committee; work initiated on developing a
  fully-financed public sector pension system.

0   Successful unification o f the accounting system between the West Bank and the Gaza
  Strip and online integration between the Gaza City and Ramallah MoF branches.

0   The posting o f monthly budget execution reports on the MoF website inboth English
  and Arabic. Detailed preliminary statements are usually posted in less than one week
  following the close o f the month; final statements one month later.

0   The full payment o f all central government arrears to municipalities, thereby
  providing municipalities and other local government councils much needed support in
  their effort to accomplish their development plans despite their current unstable
  financial situation resulting from the occupation and its negative impact on local
  economies and revenue sources.

0   Reduction o f arrears to the private sector by US$129 million between January and
  September 2003 on a gross basis (actually paid) and by US$71 million on a net basis
  (including new arrears). All long-overdue bills have been paid; the development o f
  new arrears inthe second half o f 2003 was the regrettable consequence of the shortfalls
  inexternalbudgetary support.

18.     At the December 11, 2003, meeting in Rome o f the International Task Force on
Palestinian Reform, the Prime Minister's Office presented its Report on Palestinian
Reform including a Reform Action Plan of the PNA for the period through April 15,
2004.      In the     Area    o f Financial    Accountability,  the   PNA pledged to:

                                                                                Annex 7
                                                                             Page 9 o f 17

  Complete the work on the establishment o f a transparent and clear financial system:

         o To submit the FY 2004 budget to the Palestinian Legislative Council
             before the end o f 2003, with the investment budget included.To continue
             the evaluation o f Palestine Investment Fundassets, and to publishthe first
             annual report o f the Fund. To audit all PIF accounts and publish a report
             setting forth the PNA's properties and investments.

         o To ensure that all procurement operations, particularly the security
             services', are made in a fully transparent manner, under the full
             application o f the General Procurement Law inorder to guarantee fairness
             andtransparency.

0 Achieve the payroll Budget Plan o f the FY 2003:

         o To limit the appointments in the Palestinian public institutions in 2003,
             where it shall not exceed 2772 appointments (in accordance with the
             budget)to berecruitedinthe areas ofhealth, education, andjudiciary.

         o To continue implementation o f the Palestinian Cabinet's decision in
             accordance with the civil service law o f retirement for civil servants older
             than sixty years of age.

0 Development and Activation o f Internal Control:

         o To reform andimplement the internal audit and financial control
             procedures.

0 To continue the efforts exerted towards preparinga modem and consolidated
 retirement system:

         o To complete the audit o fthe Gaza public sector pensionscheme.

         o Issuance o fa ministerial decision adopting particular indicators for
             pensionreform.

0 External Audit: Reform o f the role o f the General Control Institution (GCI):

         o It is recognized that the GCI, according to the Basic Law, should report to
             the President and the PLC. The independence and capacity o f the General
             Control Institute and the Office o f the Auditor General should be
             enhanced to conduct external auditing procedures.          It should submit
             regular reports to the President and the PalestinianLegislative Council and
             enjoy full autonomy to publishits findings. To this end, the legal basis for
             GCI

                                                                                  Annex 7
                                                                              Page 10 o f 17

             operations has to be brought infull conformity with the Basic Law (Art. 96).

0   Legislation:

            o To revise the Income Tax Law and to establish a modem income tax
                system.

            o To adopt and sign the leasing regulations.

19.     In the four months since their public pronouncement, many of these identified
benchmarks have been achieved. The 2004 budget, including the capital budget, was
submitted to the PLC in December 2003 and approved inJanuary 2004. The audit o f the
Gaza Pension and Insurance Corporation (GPIC) financial statements has been
completed; the auditor concluded that with respect to items tested, GPIC complied in all
material respects with all laws, regulations, and international accounting standards.

20.     Other benchmarks have witnessed            substantial progress,   with complete
achievement of most anticipated before the April 15 date specified inthe Reform Action
Plan. Publication of the PIF annual report i s expected mid-April, which will include full
consolidated financial statements for PIF enterprises and clearly identify any remaining
gaps in coverage.      A department has been established within the MoF to ensure
compliance with the General Procurement Law; procurement for the security services i s
now taking place through competitive bidding. Civil service employment increases were
limited in 2003 to 2,320; however recruitments in the security services o f 3,614 meant
that the budget law ceiling was exceeded, although most o f the excess was on account o f
re-enrollment o f personnel who had been dropped from the payroll due to absenteeism
during the first two years o f the Intifada.         Intemal audit procedures have been
strengthened, a structure for the Intemal Audit Department has been developed and
training commenced, with full establishment expected shortly. The National Pension
Committee, working with the World Bank, i s well advanced in its development o f the
parameters for the new pension system, with a target date o f April/May for Cabinet
approval. Finally, beginning with the March 2004 wage payment, the coverage o f the
direct deposit scheme was extended to cover all security personnel.

22      As noted in its Report on Palestinian Reform presented at Rome, significant
achievements have been realized in other areas beyond financial accountability. Looking
forward, the PNA pledged to focus its reform efforts in 2004 in the following priority
areas as well: Rule of Law and the Judiciary - training for judges and the establishment
o f a judicial training institute; constructing courthouses; establishing the constitutional
court; building capacity in the Attorney General's office; and enhancing the legislative
process. Elections - financing preparations for national elections and support for local
elections. Local Govemment - strengthening the capacity o f the local government sector
and developing an action plan for local governments. Public Administration and Civil
Service Reform - supporting the restructuring o f ministries and support to the Prime

                                                                                  Annex 7
                                                                             Page 11o f 17

Minister's office and the Cabinet Office. Support for the Palestinian Legislative Council
-includingpublicadministrationandenhancedlegislativecapacity.

22.    Inthe Rome Report, the PNA "reiterates again its full commitment to the reform
process and urges the intemational community to help us realize our final objectives in
establishing an independent, viable and democratic state, with institutions that are
efficient, transparent, accountable, and service-delivery oriented." These are
precisely the characteristics the MoF is endeavoring to promote in its operations, and
which the proposed Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund- requested by the
PNA the Rome AHLC the day before the International Task Force on PalestinianReform
meeting - would support. As seen below, addressingthe residualneeds in these areas
are the subject of the benchmarks that would determine disbursement under the
Trust Fund.


The EconomicandBudgetaryContext

23.    Following two years o f steep decline, 2003 showed signs that the Palestinian
economy had stabilized and recovered slightly from its low point. A good harvest,
increases in the number o f Palestinian workers in Israel, a significant fall in the rate o f
unemployment, and reports by businessmen and bankers all point to a modest pick up in
economic activity. But the Palestinian economy remains depressed, and real GDP i s still
some 30 percent below its level in 1999. Whether the modest recovery in 2003 will be
reversed by the continuous conflict and associated curfews and closures remains to be
seen.

24.     2003 Budgetary Performance. Despite a number o f positive developments in
2003, the fiscal situation continues to be difficult. Total budgetary revenue has been
remarkably strong since the beginning o f the year, growing even stronger in the last few
months when it reached a level only 20 percent below that before the beginning of the
Intifada. Overall, PNA revenues in 2003 exceeded budget estimates by about US$162
million.

25.     Several factors accounted for this improvement. First, since their resumption in
December 2002, the net regular monthly flows o f clearance revenues from Israel have
been steadily improving. Second, domestic revenue directly collected by the PNA was
above budget expectations, benefiting from transfers to the budget from the PNA's
commercial activities under the Palestine Investment Fund o f a total amount o f US$32
million. The stronger-than-expected collection o f revenues was mainly the result o f
improvements in tax administration and a major collection effort, despite the difficult
situation on the ground. Inaddition, the takeover of the Petroleum Corporation, coupled
with a change in management and pricing policy, resulted in higher sales of petroleum
products and sharp increases o f excise revenues.

                                                                                      Annex 7
                                                                               Page 12 o f 17

26.     The strong revenue performance did not trigger an expansion in expenditure.
Rather, expenditures (excluding donor-financed capital expenditures and net lending to
municipalities to cover their utility debts with Israeli providers, see below) were broadly
as envisaged in the budget. This overall neutral expenditure stance was not uniform over
the course o f the year or across expenditure categories, however.              Reflecting a
progressive increase inpublic employment, a salary increase for security personnel (of 8
percent effective June 1) and civil servants as a result o f the partial implementation o f the
1998 Civil Service Law, and the appreciation o f the shekel against the dollar, the wage
bill increased from USS5.5 million in January to USS75 million in December, exceeding
the average monthly level o f US$% million envisaged in the budget.             Civil service
employment was contained, increasing by 2,320 employees in 2003, below the increased
envisaged for 2003 in the budget (2,771 employees), 60 percent o f which were in social
sectors. However, security employment increased by 3,614 during the same period,
leading to a security wage bill that exceeded the budgetary appropriation.

27.     Non-wage expenditures were compressed by a monthly average o f USS8 million
below budget. This cut in non-wage expenditure was particularly acute during the first
quarter inanticipation of a shortfall in financing, but then began to ease after April. This
cautious relaxation was necessary in order to ensure a continued smooth functioning o f
the public administration and services. In addition to these budgeted expenditures, the
P N A was obliged to repay bills on behalf o f municipalities owed to Israeli companies.
The payments, which municipalities agreed to reimburse in the future, averaged USS15
million per month, and were deducted from the gross transfer by Israel out o f the stock o f
tax revenues withheld by Israel in 2001-02, as well as from monthly clearance revenues
for water bills. Toward the end of the third quarter there was a further tightening o f non-
wage expenditure that continued untilyear end due to a sharp decline inbudget support.

28.     Even with the stronger than expected revenue performance and the neutral
expenditure stance, the overall fiscal situation remained very tight because o f a
significant shortfall in external budget support - less than half o f what was anticipated in
the budget - as well as the cessation inthe latter part o f 2003 o f the transfer o f revenues
withheld in2001-2, due to Israeli court attachments.

29.     In spite o f these developments, the MoF made considerable progress toward the
objective o f reducing the stock o f budgetary arrears. As outlined in the budget, the
Ministry used the transfers from the accumulated stock o f withheld tax revenue by Israel
(net of the deductions made for the repayments on behalf of Palestinian municipalities) to
repay arrears to the private sector, in so doing helping the private sector recover
somewhat from the liquidity squeeze it had experienced in the last three years. These
transfers o f withheld tax revenues flowed at a net rate o f approximately NIS 100 million
(USS20 million) from January to May, and approximately NIS 150 million (USS30
million) in June, July, and August. At that point they ceased due to the withholding o f
N I S 832 million by order o f Israeli courts pending resolution o f claims against the PNA
by     private    Israeli   companies      and    individuals.         Consequently,     while

                                                                                      Annex 7
                                                                                 Page 13 o f 17

transfer o f withheld arrears were expected to amount to US$40 million per month in the
budget, the actual amount received averaged only US$17 million.

30.     Inview o fthe shortfall inbudget support, the MoF was compelled to increase its
indebtedness to the banking sector by US$66 million over the course o f the year, bringing
the stock o f debt to banks to a relatively high level o f US$176 million at end-2003 (some
5.4 percent o f GDP). Also, while substantial arrears were repaid to the private sector,
new arrears were accumulated on the pension contributions to the GPIC as well as other
public sector arrears, amounting to a total stock o f approximately US$384 million at
yearend. Total arrears and indebtedness thus stood at approximately US$560 million.

31.     2004 Budgetary Outlook.        Given the centrality o f political developments in
Palestine, the economic outlook for 2004 depends critically on the key assumptions made
concerning any political progress. In preparing the 2004 budget, several scenarios were
considered - the budget assumes a status-quo political scenario under which current
political instability and vulnerability persist; current levels o f internal and external
movement restrictions on persons and on goods are maintained; and economic growth i s
modest.

32.     The 2004 budget assumes that the strong trend in revenue witnessed in the last
half of 2003 will continue, raising the ratio o f total revenue to GDP from 22 to 25 percent
in2004. This is drivenbythe full-year impact o fthe increase inrevenues associatedwith
improvements in tax administration and the efficiency and liberalization gains in the
petroleum market.      Nevertheless, revenues will remain below their "normal" level
(defined as the 1999 revenue level adjusted for an average growth rate in line with
population growth) because o f the economic downturn during the past years.

33.     Recurrent expenditure i s expected to rise faster than improved revenue
performance on several accounts, from approximately 35 to 40 percent o f GDP. First, the
wage bill share o f GDP would increase from 23 to 25 percent in 2004, reflecting the
carry-over o f the salary increase for all civil servants, which took effect in the last quarter
o f 2003, and a 3,500 increase in civil service employment.          Second, following their
squeeze during 2003, non-wage expenditure requirements have increased above the 2003
budget level, reflecting pressing and increasing needs for operations and maintenance as
well as demands on public services from a rapidly growing population, all inthe context
o f severe dislocations resulting from both the Israeli Separation Wall and closures.
Third, transfer payments would increase in line with the wage bill to reflect higher
pension contributions on the part o f the employer.        Because the wage bill represents
approximately two-thirds o f current expenditure, little room is available for expenditure
management.

34.     Unless the assumptions o f the baseline scenario are improved, leading to a
significant reduction in internal and external movement restrictions and associated costs
and much stronger economic growth than now foreseen, the PNA cannot cover its wage

                                                                                      Annex 7
                                                                                  Page 14 o f 17

bill -let alone total current expenditure -through projectedtax revenues. To fully cover
the budget deficit,  the PNA requires approximately US$650 million o f external budget
support.    As this amount i s more than double the amount disbursed in 2003, an
extraordinary effort on the part o f donors i s required; it i s hoped that the proposed Public
Financial Management Reform Trust Fund will make a major contribution to securing
these needed funds.

35.     The only other possible source o f external financing is the transfer o f the NIS 832
million o f withheld tax revenues by Israel blocked in September 2003 pending the
resolution o f the issue o f Israeli court attachments.        As the 2004 budget indicates,
however, these revenues would be entirely used to reduce the stock o f domestic arrears
should they become available.

36.     PNA indebtedness to the banking system, already high at end-2003, i s budgeted
for a reduction by US$12 million in 2004, along with a progressive repayment o f the
large stock o f arrears; should 2004 revenues exceed budget amounts, the Ministryintends
to accelerate the reduction in indebtedness to the banking system and/or in the stock o f
arrears.

37.     Budgetary Reforms Envisaged in 2004. The 2004 budget is underpinned by a
number o f policy reforms, many o f which were enumerated in the Report on Palestinian
Reform and its Reform Action Plan presented by the PNA in Rome in December (see
above). On the revenue side, the submission o f a new income tax law to the PLC based
on international best practice will be more favorable to private sector activity, while
raising overall revenue.

38.     Regarding expenditure management, the consolidation o f all security personnel
under one supervisory authority with wages paid by direct bank transfer will allow for
improved transparency and control over hiring. Moreover, to alleviate the moral hazard
stemming from payments o f municipalities' utility bills by the PNA, net lending to
municipalities should fall from US$187 million to US$120 million under a strict payment
plan, as municipalities beginto make some payments and collect some fees on their own.

39.     Further expected progress in other reforms in 2004 includes ongoing work, in
collaboration with the World Bank, on setting new parameters o f the pension system, on
which a decision i s expected during the second quarter o f the year; a new pensions law
could then by adopted by mid-2004. Pension reform should provide a unified, fully
funded, and sustainable pension system. Lack o f such a system has been a major
impediment to civil service reform and to security organizations' retrenchment; pension
reform, therefore, will be key in the effort to curb the rising trend inthe wage bill inthe
near future. Second, measures to improve competitiveness and transparency in public
procurement, including by the security services, are being enhanced. Third, the valuation
and audit of all PNA assets should be completed and published, and an assessment o f the
amount o f profits to be transferred to the budget made.             Fourth, external auditing

                                                                                 Annex 7
                                                                           Page 15 o f 17

procedures should be strengthened through the adoption o f a new external auditing law to
ensure full independence o f the office, submission o f regular reports to the PLC, and
comprehensive coverage o f all PNA institutions.       Finally, a clear and sustainable
financial relationship should be established between the MoF and the municipalities. As
local authorities currently experience a very low payment rate for utility bills by the
public - preventing the local authorities from paying the amounts due energy producers
(in particular, Israeli utility companies) - the MoF has become obliged to provide the
needed funds through loans to the municipalities.

40.     Many o f these reforms will need to be encouraged and supported by donors,
through continued or expanded programs o f technical assistance, higher levels o f direct
budget support, and other forms o f financial assistance. The proposed Public Financial
Management Reform Trust Fund would be an effective vehicle for providing such
encouragement.      Accordingly, the following sets o f (a) "prior actions" and (b)
"benchmarks" to be completed by June 30,2004 have been identified.


ProposedPublicFinancialManagementReformTrust Fund"Prior Actions"

41.     The MoF, on behalf o f the Palestinian National Authority, commits itself to the
fulfillment o f the following five actions as "prior actions" required prior to the initial
disbursements under the proposed Trust Fund, in order to enable Trust Fund
disbursements during the period from Trust Fundeffectiveness through June 30, 2004:

        Prior Action No. I:Submission to the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC)
        andpassage of the PNA Budget Lawfor 2004.

        Prior Action No. 2: Submission to the PLC of statements on the PNA'sJiscal
        operations in 2002.

        Prior Action No. 3: Full implementation of the 2004 Budget Law's requirement
        that the salary payments of all PNA securitypersonnel be directly depositedinto
        individual bank accounts.

        Prior Action No. 4: Completion and publication of the final report of the
        valuation of assets of the Palestine Investment Fund (PIF).

        Prior Action No. 5 : Full compliance with the 2004 Budget Law in relation to
        public sector hiring, which should not exceedprogrammed net additional hiring
        of 3,500personnel to be allocated asfollows: (a) at least 90% of thesepositions
        to the social sector ministries (Health, Education, Social Affairs)       and for
        Reform Program-related needs; and (b) the remaining 10% to other civil service
        entities.

                                                                               Annex 7
                                                                          Page 16 of 17

Monitoring indicators that attest to the completion of these benchmarks are identifiedin
the attached Matrix of Policy Actions.

ProposedPublicFinancialManagementReformTrust FundMid-2004Benchmarks

42.     The MoF, on behalf of the Palestinian National Authority, commits itself to the
fulfillment of the following seven benchmarks by June 30, 2004 in order to enable Trust
Funddisbursements during the periodJuly 1-December 31,2004:

        Mid-2004 Benchmark No. 1: Adoption by the Council of Ministers of an Action
        Plan to contain the wagebill.

        Mid-2004 Benchmark No. 2: Best efforts to adhere to a minimum quarterly level
        of NIS 160million in essential non-salary social recurrent expenditures.

        Mid-2004 Benchmark No. 3: Submission to the PLC of a revised External Audit
        Law which would ensure compliance by a new auditing institution with the
        provisions of the Basic Law (independence of the institution, responsiveness to
        the PLC), and clear responsibility for auditing all PNA institutions' budget
        execution reports.

        Mid-2004 Benchmark No. 4: The assumption of full jurisdiction by the
        Department of Supplies and Tenders in the MoF over all purchases made by
        PNA ministries and agencies, including theSecurity FinancialAdministration.

        Mid-2004 Benchmark No. 5: Approval by the National Pension Committee of a
        detailed outline of a pension reform program and a draft Pension Law,
        including implementation regulations, setting out the parameters, institutions,
        and management of a unified and sustainablepublic sectorpension scheme.

        Mid-2004 Benchmark No. 6: Full implementation of the Council of Ministers'
        decision of June 2003 to retire PNA employees at the age of 60.

        Mid-2004 Benchmark No. 7: Submission to the PLC of statements on the PNA's
       fiscal operations in 2003, and PNA commitment to their external audit by the
        new auditing institution (Benchmark No. 3, above) by end-March 2005, or by
        external auditors, commissionedby the PNA as a one-time stop-gap measure,
        by end-June 2005.

                                                                                 Annex 7
                                                                             Page 17 o f 17

43.     Monitoring indicators that would attest to the completion o f these benchmarks are
likewise included in the attached Matrix of Policy Actions; each quarter the MoF, on
behalf of the PNA, will submit progress reports to the World Bank on their current status.
In addition, the MoF, on behalf of the PNA and in conjunction with the Bretton Woods
institutions and major contributing donors to the proposed Public Financial Management
Reform Trust Fund, shall develop and agree upon a set o fbenchmarks to be completed by
end-2004 so as to enable disbursement from the Trust Fundfor the period January 1-June
30,2005.

ti
a
v)
m      \
       c
.-Q    0
3
c      .-e
       c
       0

e
0      .-E
       3
sp!    c
       0
       a,
Y
a
2
m
c
c
a,
5
0
-0
0

m
I

c
a,
U
cn
m
3

d
0
0
N

x
c
m
n
g!z
5
a,

3
-6
c
0
+
m
v,
m
v,
c
i
-P
m

c
E!

c
-
m
c
0
.-c
0

20
 a



        c
 c      0

hm

.-c
 0
2sm
I




c0

.-a,
 e
 v,
Ic

e
-
.-0
 " &
 G 5




             d

w

