Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
'zR. /G ?-Sw
Rqrt N.. P-421 3-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 18.3 MILLION
AND
A PROPOSED SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 40.3 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
January 10, 1986
This deoent hkws iresricted distibutin and may be uied by rcipiens edy in the perfmancm of
dheir oficia dude. lb emtms my not otherwise be dsdosed withu World Bemk suhrizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =          CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                      =          CFAF 412 (December 1985)
CFAF 1 million               =          US$ 2,427 (December 1985)
SYSTEMl OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                                  US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                             3 ;.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)             =         0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (kim2)              0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)               =          2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)                        2,205 pounds (lb)
I kilogram (kg)              =          2.2046 pounds (lb)
ABF.RFVIATIONS AND ACROnYS
AF          Special African Facility
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Fconomique (France)
CG          Consultative Group
CT'SP       Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix
(Price Equalization and Stabilization Fund)
CSA         Coimmissariat de Securite Alimentaire (Food Security Commission)
EFF         Extended Fund Facility
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization (INT)
ICS         Industries Chiniques du Senegal
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
N-PA        Nouvelle Politique Agricole (New Agricultural Policy)
NPC         Nom'inal Protection Coefficient
PAML        Programme d'Ajustement Economique et Firancier a Moyen et
Long Terme (Medium and Long Term Adjustment Program)
PAP         Priority Action Program
PIP         Public Investment Program
PREF        Plan a Moyen Terme de Redressement Economique et Firancier
(Htedium-Term Recoverv Plan)
SAED        Societe d'Amknagenent et d'Fxploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve S6n6gal et des Vall6es du Fleuve Senegal et de la
Faleme (Senegal River Valley Development Agency)
SCF         Standard Conversion Factor
SJF         Special joint Facilitv
SOFISEDIT   Societ6 Financiare Singgalaise pour le Developpement de
ltIndustrie et du Tourisme (Financial Development Agency)
SONAR       Socifte Nationale d'Approvisionnement du Monde Rur'al (State
Groundnut Seed Distribution Agency)
UMOA        Union Monetaire Ouest-Africaine (West African Monetarv Union)
UTDP        UTnited Nations Development Program
UNIDO       United Nations Tndustrial Development Organization
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



Republic of Senegal        FOIR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
Structural Adjustment Program
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Senegal
Amount:             IDA Credit:        SDR 18.3 million (US$20.0 million
equiv.)
AF Credit:        SDR 40.3 million (US$44.0 million
equiv.)
Swiss SJF Grant:  Sw F 13.5 million (about US$6.0
million equiv.)
Terms:              IDA and AF Credits:  Standard
Swiss SJF Grant: Non-reimbursable contribution
Program
Description:        The proposed credits would support the first phase
(1985-87) of the Government's medium-term adjustment
program (1985-92).  This first phase consists of a
comprehensive action program of policies and measures
aimed  at  accelerating  growth  in  production  and
employment and strengthening public sector management.
Specifically, the SAC program would include measures,
some   already   taken,   in   the   following   areas:
Ci) agricultural incentive reforms to increase cereal
production, including price support mechanisms and
adjustments, as well as liberalization of marketing and
the restructuring of rural development agencies;
(ii) steps    to    decontrol    agricultural    input
distribution, free up sector marketing arrangements and
increase groundnut producer prices; (i4i) industrial
policy reforms  intended to  reduce effective  import
protection, rationalize the export subsidy system,
reduce wage and labor law rigidities, and progressively
eliminate price controls; (iv) implementation of a
two-year   public   investment   program   emphasizing
productive sectors and high-priority rehabilitation
activities,  and  reform  of  the  public  investment
programming  and  budgeting  process  to  develop  a
three-year "rolling" programming and budgeting system
and   preparation    of   the    first    consolidated
program/budget;  (v) acceleration of parapublic sector
reforms, including development of a coherent strategy
for  restructurating  and/or   privatizing  of  most
state-owned enterprises; and (vi) measures to address
the   underlying   structural   causes   of   financial
disequilibrium  by  controlling  expenditure  growth,
improving the revenue base, reducing payment arrears,
and reforming the Price Equalization and Stabilization
Fund.  The ongoing Technical Assistance Project for
Economic and Financial Management would assist in
implementation of the program.
This doument has a resticted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of l
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursements:      The proceeds of the proposed credits and Swiss grant
(US$70 million equivalent in total) would be disbursed
in two tranches and would be used exclusively for
financing the foreign exchange cost of eligible
imports. The first tranche of US$35 million would be
available    for    disbursement    immediately    upon
effectiveness of the credits and the Swiss grant.
Disbursement of the second tranche of US$35 million
would  be  contingent  upon  the  Government  making
significant and satisfactory progress in implementing
the structural adjustment program.  It is envisaged
that release of the second tranche would occur around
October/November 1986 after a performance review.
Disbursements of the entire credit are expected to be
completed within 15 months after credit effectiveness.
Staff
Appraisal Report:   Not applicable.
Hap:                IBRD 11470 R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS                        J
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND
A PROPOSED SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 18.3 million (US$20 million equivalent) and a
proposed Special African Facility Credit of SDR 40.3 million (US$44 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Senegal to help
support the Government's structural adjustment program.  In addition, I
recommend that IDA would administer a proposed Special Joint Financing
non-reimbursable Contribution of Sw F13.5 million (about US$6 million
equivalent) by Switzerland.
2.        Part I of this report reviews the characteristics, performance
and  constraints  of  the  economy.   Part  II  outlines  the  Government' s
structural adjustment program, and Part III analyzes the expected economic
and social impact of the program. Parts IV and V describe IDA's role in
the adjustment process, the proposed operation, and other Bank Group
operations in Senegal.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
3.        A report entitled Senegal: Country Economic Memorandum (5243-SE)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 5, 1984. Updated
country data appear in Annex I.
A. Introduction
4.        Senegal's economy has only modest growth prospects and has been
in  the  grips  of  a  crisis  since  about  1978-79.   Precipitated  by  a
concurrence of external shocks, this crisis nevertheless had its roots in
misconceived or unsustainable policies followed in the 1970s.  Although the
short-run economic situation and the medium-term outlook remain as
difficult as those described in the last Country Economic Memorandum (CEM),
the Senegal Government's policy formulation and economic management have
improved consistently over the last two years and have begun to bring the
economic crisis under control. The Government has clearly recognized that
recovery from the crisis involves adhering to a sustained and long-term
adjustment program whose implementation necessarily involves immediate
sacrifice and political risk. The road to full recovery may be a long one,
and the two-year structural adjustment program described in this Report
represents only the first stage of this long-term adjustment process. The
program is already underway and gaining momentum. The sense of urgency and



seriousness with which the Government has embarked on its program of
reforms bodes well for the success in the long run for the structural
adjustment program as a whole.
B. Background to the Crisis
5.        Even in the context of Sub-Saharan Africa, Senegal confronts an
unusual development challenge. At independence (1960), Senegal inherited a
relatively well-equipped physical and social infrastructure and a GDP that
was then larger than that of either the Ivory Coast or Cameroon.  This
inheritance was, however, more suited for its former privileged leadership
role in colonial French West Africa than for the reduced political,
administrative, and economic circumstances of a nation with three-quarters
of its territory in the Sahel zone and subject to periodic devastation by
drought. Since 1960, Senegal has experienced the lowest GDP growth rate
(2.3 percent per annum) of any African state not affected by war or civil
strife. As in most other African countries, Senegal's population growth is
high (estimated at 2.9Z, as of 1984) and, although the Government has an
active population policy, demographic factors will continue to absorb most
of the growth in private consumption for some time to come.  In 1984,
Senegal had an estimated per capita income of US$380 (at the current
exchange rate), roughly half that of Cameroon and Ivory Coast, placing it
for the first time in the ranks of the lower income countries.
6.        On the whole, the Senegalese economy has not yet escaped from its
dependence on the mainstays of the traditional economy - millet
cultivation and cattle raising for domestic consumption and groundnut
cultivation for export - and this traditional economy is in stagnation.
Rural and most urban incomes are lower in real terms than in 1960, and
nearly half of Senegal's basic food supplies are imported. The reason for
this is partly that Senegal's resource-poor and open economy is highly
vulnerable to climatic vagaries and adverse movements in the international
terms of trade. In the 15 years since 1970, Senegal's agriculture has been
hit by drought no less than seven times, i.e., every other year, on
average.   The  nation  is  inherently  disadvantaged,  lacking  the  rich
agricultural potential or mineral resources of many other countries on the
West African coast.
7.        Another  important  feature  of  the  economy  is  the  high
concentration of modern sector employment and consumption patterns,
commercial facilities, and social services in Dakar and the coastal belt,
resulting in important urban-rural and inter-regional disparities in
employment opportunities.   The economy is also characterized by direct
government participation or regulatory controls in most of the formal
sectors.   The  sluggish  economic  performance  of  the  1960s  and  1970s
witnessed only a small structural shift of the economy towards industry.
Slow growth in incomes has also limited domestic savings, prolonged
dependence on foreign budgetary support, and made structural adjustment
measures more difficult to implement. Yet adjustment became unavoidable at



the end of the 1970s, when a combination of poor financial and investment
policies, declining terms of trade, and successive droughts plunged an
already weakened economy into a severe crisis. This crisis persists today
in spite of increasing recent efforts by the Government to implement
adjustment policies.
C. Recent Economic Developments
8.        The array of acute structural and financial problems from which
Senegal had suffered for several years was compounded in 1983/84 by the
return of severe drought conditions.  These reduced by almost 40% the
volume of agricultural production available both for export (groundnuts)
and for domestic consumption (mainly cereals). The drought, the second
most severe since 1972-73, had a negative impact oa the level of economic
activity in 1984 (GDP fell by 4%), on Senegal's balance of payments and on
its public finances. Despite some encouraging signs of growth in sectors
not directly affected by the drought (e.g., fishing and tourism), prospects
for a sustained recovery in aggregate output and employment are uncertain
not only because of the vagaries of the climate, but also as a result of
the persistent financial pressures.
9.        A major constraint on the Government's finances and the balance
of payments is the serious and growing burden of external public debt.
Over the past four years, debt rescheduling agreements have been signed
four times with the Paris Club and twice with the commercial banks,
providing an estimated total debt relief of some US$380 million over the
period  1981/82-1985/86.   Scheduled  debt  service  (including moratorium
interest) is projected to average around US$300 million per year over the
next four years; this will represent an average debt service ratio of about
21% and is almost certain to require a continuation of debt relief for a
few more years until the adjustment program has had time to take effect.
As a result of much more stringent budgetary policies, the Government's
overall fiscal deficit has been reduced by more than half over the last two
years. The current account aeficit of the balance of payments has also
diminished by comparison witi. the years 1980/81-1981/82 when the crisis
reached its peak. ComLined -vith the tight monetary policies exercised by
the authorities of the West African Monetary Union, which have contained
general inflation to an average of about 10% a year since 1981, the
Government's reduced spending has had a further deflationary effect on the
economy. This situation has placed a number of enterprises in difficulty,
and modern private sector employment is estimated to have declined as a
consequence. The above trends have had a particularly hard impact on the
urban population.
10.       Preliminary figures for imports and for revenue collection for
the first quarter of 1985/86 suggest that the recession which took place in
1984 following the 1983/84 drought continued well into 1985.  With an
expected record one million ton cereal crop and a 600-700 thousand ton
production of groundnuts in 1985/86, the outlook for 1986 is much more



- 4 -
promising. It will, however, be important to keep a firm control over wage
increases as economic conditions improve. The Government recognizes the
need for continued vigilance in restraining the growth in aggregate demand.
D. Earlier Bank and Fund Adjustment Programs
11.       In  the  late  1970s,  the  Government  began  to  recognize  the
shortcomings of its development plans and diversification efforts as it
faced the cumulative effects of successive droughts and declining terms of
trade. In December 1979, the Government announced a Plan a moyen terme de
redressement &conomigue et financier (PREF) which had been extensively
discussed with both the Bank and the IMF. The PREF, which vas to run for
five years, was designed to stabilize the economy, increase investment in
the productive sectors, raise public savings, liberalize trade policies,
reverse the policy of state participation in the economy, and streamline
the parapublic sector.
12.       These new policies facilitated the mobilization of important
balance of payments and budgetary aid to Senegal and were the basis for an
IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for SDR 184.8 million, approved in August
1980, and a combined Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (P2869a-SE; IDA, SDR
22.9 million; IBRD, $30 million) which was approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1980. Macroeconomic performance, however, quickly
got off track for a variety of internal and external reasons, including
recurrent drought, and was mixed for both the SAL and the various IMF
programs implemented between 1980 and 1983.
13.       The program of structural reform supported by the SAL had four
major components:   (a) reform of  the parapublic sector;  (b) reform of
agricultural   policies;    (c) improved   production   incentives;   and
(d) investment policies. The program also contained a set of economic
stabilization measures which were to be monitored by the IMF. All proceeds
of the Credit and part of the Loan (US$13.2 million) were disbursed on
schedule by September 1981 to finance the first tranche of the imports
program. Although the SAL succeeded in meeting most of the objectives in
the areas of parapublic sector reform, production incentives and investment
policies, it ran into difficulty in the implementation of agreed policies
concerning  fertilizer  and  seed  distribution.   The  second  tranche was
cancelled on June 30, 1983 after a long and difficult dialogue on
agricultural policies. The reasons for this and the lessons which the Bank
and the Government can draw from it are described in the Program
Performance Audit Report which was issued on May 21, 1985 (Report No.
SecM85-624). The key points were:
(i)    over optimistic expectations regarding some difficult policy
issues, such as those in the agriculture sector (e.g.,
reform of the subsidized central seed and fertilizer
distribution system);



- 5 -
(ii)   the failure to make allowance for certain data deficiencies
(e.g., regarding the size of the debt problem) and to
anticipate the recurrence of external shocks (e.g., drought
and terms of trade losses); and
Ui::) the distraction of the Government's attention to the reform
process caused by the political events (change in President)
in 1981 and the sharp deflationary impact of the two
successive drought years (1980 and 1981).
14.       Difficulties were also experienced with Fund programs, starting
with  the EFF program of  1980.  In September  1981, at the request of
Senegal, the EFF was cancelled and replaced by a stand-by arrangement of
SDR 63 million for 1981/82. The Government successfully implemented that
arrangement; but a new arrangement of SDR 47.25 million for 1982/83 was not
completed.   Thi.; was attributable to a relaxation of the authorities'
adjustment efforts, and a sharp drop in the export price for groundnuts
which led to heavy losses for the CPSP, the Government's commodity price
equalization and stabilization agency. The internal and external financial
imbalances widened substantially also because the corrective measures that
could have allowed the authorities to attain their original objectives
proved difficult to take in the pre-elections period.
15.       In August 1983, following the announcement of measures to reduce
subsidies on a broad range of consumer products, a new stand-by was agreed
for 1983/84 in an amount of SDR 63 million. This program aimed at reducing
the external current account deficit by more than three percentage points
of GDP and at bringing down the overall fiscal deficit from 8.2 to 4.8
percent of GDP, on a commitment basis. As a result of a more stringent
control over public expenditures, and helped by a substantial recovery in
groundnut export prices, the Government was able to achieve in full the
objectives of the 1983/84 program.
16.       In early 1985, an 18-month stand-by arrangement for SDR 76.6
milliou was approved by the Fund, covering the period up to end-June 1986.
Performance under this program, too, is judged satisfactory to date by the
IMF. The basic objectives of the program are to reduce the BOP current
account deficit from 11.1 percent of GDP in 1983/84 to 6.9 percent in
1985/86 and to lower the overall fiscal deficit, on a commitment basis, to
1.4 percent of GDP in 1985/86. If the full amount of the current stand-by
arrangement (SDR 76.6 million) is purchased, and after taking into account
scheduled repurchases during the stand-by period (SDR 68.6 million),
Senegal's drawings from the IMF subject to repurchase would amount, by
end-June 1986, to the equivalent of 250 percent of quota.
E. Priorities for the Next Phase of Adjustment
17.       In 1984, the Government, in close consultation with Bank staff,
prepared a Programme d'ajustement economigue et financier a moyen et



- 6 -
long-terme (PAML) for the period 1985-1992. The PAML, which was presented
to the first meeting of the Consultative Group (CG) for Senegal in December
1984, provides a macroeconomic framework and a set of objectives and
policies, sector strategy orientations and guiding principles for the
preparation of appropriate adjustment measures.  Against a background of
adverse factors (climate, terms of trade, demography) which are unlikely to
improve over the medium term, the Senegalese authorities and the members of
the CG agreed on the three main problem areas of economic policy which must
be addressed:
°    Incentives.   Pricing,  subsidy  and  incentive  policies  have
discouraged the production of tradeables and tended to accentuate
dependence on food and energy imports. Farmers have not invested
in the production for the market of traditional cereals, partly
because of the availability of cheap cereal imports but also
because of the riskiness of technical packages for the rainfed
areas.   Manufactured  exports  have  grown very  little due  to
excessive protection of the domestic market, haphazard government
interventions and labor policies which have driven up costs and
reduced export competitiveness.
o    Role of Government.   Over-extension of the public sector and
elaborate but ineffective controls over the use of public funds
have brought about an unsustainable growth in consumption and
imports, untenable public sector borrowing, and the build-up of
large domestic payment arrears.
o    Quality of Investment.  An excessive share of past investments
has been directed towards poorly conceived or unproductive
projects, resulting in pervasive low returns on investment.
18.       As  a  consequence  of  these  three  groups  of  problems,  the
Senegalese economy is crippled by lack of growth in the production of
tradeables, large fiscal and external current account deficits, and an
intractable debt servicing problem. A postponement of adjustment measures
by borrowing to support current consumption, rather than ',roductive
investments and reequipment, has compounded the debt crisis. Relative to
the size of its economy 1/ and a growth potential of 3 to 4 percent a
year, the external debt burden (debt outstanding is equivalent to about 80
percent of the 1984 GDP) is such that Senegal could not emerge from the
crisis by the year 1990 without substantial additional aid.
19.       The 1984 CEM made it clear that the immediate underlying cause ot
the present disequilibria in the economy must be traced primarily to the
maintenance of an unsustainable level of consumption. Indeed, consumption
will have to be curtailed if Senegal is to pay back debts incurred in part
to finance consumption.   For this reason, the adjustment measures will
inevitably  be  painful.   However,  with  the  concrete  evidence  of  the
I/   In 1984, Senegal's GDP was on the order of US$2.4 billion, exports
US$800 million, and net capital inflow plus official transfers US$400
million.



Government's determination to face this reality that has come from the
formulation and initiation of a credible adjustment program, sufficient
external assistance may be mobilized to permit the adjustment period to be
spread over a number of years and thus to mitigate the social cost of the
austerity measures required.
G. Long-Term Challenges
20.       Although its physical resource base is limited, Senegal could
sustain a significantly higher long-term rate of economic growth than it
has achieved in the past. This growth should be based on a diversification
of agricultural production (export-based and import-substituting) and on
creating stronger linkages between industry and the rest of the economy.
However, faster growth can only be sustained by a reversal of some of the
structural trends in the economy and by assuring a better balance of
financial uses and resources while maintaining an open economy. For this
reason, Senegal's long-term prospects critically depend on the success of
the medium-term adjustment program to create a stronger base for long-term
development by structurally improving the institutional and incentive
environment.   These  objectives  imply  less  direct  involvement  of  the
Government in productive activities.
21.       The  country  also  faces  fundamental  technical  problems  of
developing rainfed and irrigated crop production at reasonable cost and
with adequate returns to producers, calling for a transformation of rural
institutions  and  appropriate  incentive  policies  for  agriculture.   A
comprehensive shift in industrial incentive and protection policies in
favor of export production is also required.
22.       In  the  long  run,  the  prospects  for  employment  creation  in
non-agricultural  activities  will  depend  in  large  measure  on  the
Government's success in extricating itself from activities which it could
better leave to the private sector; in reducing the excessive levels of
protection which have tended to create private sector monopolies; and in
encouraging capable local entrepreneurs to take over activities or markets
currently occupied by the public sector or by foreigners.  This latter
task, the Senegalization of the economy, will not, however, be achieved by
injudicious credit policies or excessive levels cf protection of local
enterprises.  Iu parallel with the promotion of private sector activities,
the country will need to take stronger action to curb the present very high
rate of population growth and to adapt radically those parts of its
education system which appear excessively costly and unsuited to the needs
of the economy.



-8-
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Overview
23.       The basic objective of the Government's structural adjustment
program is to lay a firm foundation for the resumption of sustainable
growth in the long term. The prerequisites for success are an incentive
envircument which maximizes the exploitation oG  the growth potential,
particularly in agriculture and industry, and an economic management
performance which optimizes public resource allocation and promotes
financial stabilization.
24.       Two main themes underpin the Government's strategy to accomplish
these objectives over the period 1985-1992: (i) progressive withdrawal cf
the state from direct involvement in production activities, and the
promotion of private sector initiative through a change in incentive
policies; and (ii) achievement of greater efficiency of public resource
management through improvements in the quality and management of public
investments, the streamlining and reform of the parapublic sector, and the
generation of public savings.
25.       Since the meeting of the CG, the Senegalese authorities, with
Bank staff assistance, have prepared an action program of monitorable
measures for implementation during the first phase of the adjustment
program (1985-87), which is described in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (LDP). This action program, which will be supported by
the proposed SAC, builds on and is consistent with the program supported by
the current stand-by arrangement with the IMF. The SAC's main features are
as follows:
(a) Policies for Accelerated Growth in Production and Employment
{i) incentive reforms in agriculture to raise cereals output
through: adjustments in the price of imported rice; the
liberalization of cereals marketing; a floor price support
mechanism for cereals; the preparation of a program of
supporting measures to improve the production potential for
rainfed and irrigated cereals; and the restructuring of
rural development agencies;
(ii) steps to decontrol input distribution and marketing
arrangements in the groundnut sector, increase the producer
price of groundnuts to improve farmer incomes, and reduce
the cost of government support;
(iii) a comprehensive package of industrial policy reforms,
including the adoption of object'ves to be pursued in the
medium-term, implementation of a first set of immediate
measures, and preparation of an action plan, aiming inter
alia to: reduce the levels of effective protection;
rationalize the export subsidy system; reduce the rigidities
in the labor and wage laws; and progressively eliminate
price controls.



-9-
(b) Public Sector Management
(i)  implementation of a two-year public investment program which
channels resources to productive sectors and high priority
rehabilitation activities based on explicit criteria; reform
of the public Investment programming and budgeting process
to develop a three-year "rolling" investment programming and
budgeting system; and preparation of the first three-year
investment program and consolidated budget;
(ii)  acceleration  of  parapublic  sector  reforms,  including
elaboration   of  a   coherent   strategy  to  guide   the
restructuring  and/or  privatization   of  the  bulk  of
state-owned enterprises;
(iii)  reducing financial disequilibria through measures to control
the growth of expenditures, improve the revenue base, reduce
payment arrears on the basis of agreed criteria, and reform
the CPSP.
Much work by the Senegalese authorities and considerable
technical assistance will be required to prepare and implement the above
measures.  The ongoing Technical Assistance Project for Economic  and
Financial Planning and the Second Technical Assistance Project for the
Parapublic Sector would assist in this effort.
B.  Policies for Accelerated Growth in Production and Employment
B. 1. Development of Agriculture
26.       The Government attaches top priority to rural development and
growth in agricultural production. The New Agricultural Policy (NPA) which
was adopted in 1984 following extensive consultations with the major
donors, including the Bank, outlines the general framework for the reform
of the rural sector. These consultations have resulted in substantial
progress in several areas, although further efforts are needed to define
specific measures. The first set of these measures has been identified
under the proposed SAC. Additional measures dealing with the
intensification of cereals production, supporting credit and applied
research  service-,  and institutional reforms  would be  identified  and
implemented under sector-specific operations planned by Government over the
next few years.



- 10 -
27.       The Government' s main objectives in agriculture are: to increase
cereals production to improve food self-sufficiency; to expand the
production and rationalize the marketing of groundnuts, the main export
crop; and to reduce the State's intervention in production activities so as
to allow free play to producer initiative. To achieve these objectives,
the SAC program calls for the following policies and measures which
concentrate on the main cereals pricing issues, the reform of the groundnut
sector, and the restructuring of the rural development agencies (RDA).
28.       Cereals Policy.  The Government's strategy for the development of
domestic cereals production is based on two main thrusts:  ti) stimulate
demand for coarse grains by setting the consumer price of rice (the main
imported cereal) at a level which would provide some protection for local
cereals production; and (ii) encourage production of cereals through
remunerative producer prices, liberalized marketing, and development of
improved farming systems. This represents a major change in policy from
the past, when the Government subsidized the consumer price of rice and
lacked a strategy  for  promoting  the production  of  domestic  cereals.
Hereafter, in setting the rice price, the Government would maintain at a
minimum a nominal protection coefficient (NPC) 2/ of 25%. This level of
protection is consistent with the estimated standard conversion factor
(SCF) for Senegal.  The consumer price of rice has been increased by a
total of 100 percent in nominal terms since 1982 . As a result, the former
subsidy element to the consumers has been eliminated, and the current price
(CFAF 160/kg) provides domestic cereals production a nominal protection of
some 30-40 percent, depending on the fluctuations of the dollar and the
world market price for broken rice. If the import price and the exchange
rate fluctuate in a significant and durable fashion so as to reduce the
level of nominal protection below 25%, the Government and the Association
would, in the context of semi-annual consultations, discuss the need for a
price adjustment as well as the amount, modalities and the date of the
adjustment. The Government is thus pursuing a cautious policy of making
urban consumers pay the price for developing domestic food production. In
conjunction with this policy, the Government's objective is to reduce the
volume of rice imports on a per capita basis over the medium-term. If ti-e
above measures are successful in increasing the demand for and supply of
domestic cereals, annual rice imports, which have steadily grown from about
200,000 tons in 1974 to about 340,000 tons in 1984, would be stabilized at
or reduced below their 1984 level during the period 1985-89 (para 71).
29.      Regarding  supply,  the  degree  of  competitiveness  of  locally
produced cereals in consumable form (particularly of millet) will require
additional actions on several fronts, especially improving the productivity
of existing farming systems in conjunction with expected improvements in
industrial  transformation/processing  technologies.    Specifically,  the
Government would implement the following measures. First, a cereals
2/  NPC is defined as: Pr-Pc, where Pr=retail price of rice;
Pc
and Pc=cif price + handling charges and marketing margins.



- 11 -
development action program -- under preparation with assistance from FAO 
would be completed after consultation with the Association as a condition
of release of the second tranche.  This action program, which would be
presented to the donors at a proposed meeting to be held during the first
half of 1986, would address issues related to the agronomic potential for
cereals production, improved farming systems, producer price policy, and
the processing of coarse grains to respond to consumers' tastes and eating
habits.   Second,  in  application  of  its  objective  to  liberalize  the
marketing of cereals, the Government has, as a first step, lifted all
barriers and administrative controls previously imposed on the internal
marketing of cereals (except for paddy rice whose production represents
less than 10Z of total consumption of cereals). The marketing of paddy is
currently controlled by the rural development agencies which are involved
in production activities.   The ultimate objective is to liberalize the
marketing of paddy, too, in the coming years in parallel with the
disengagement of rural development agencies (notably SAED, the Senegal
River Valley Authority) from production and marketing activities in
consultation with the Association (paras. 36, 118).
30.       Finally,  the Government has made progress  in realigning  its
producer pricing policy.  It has abandoned the past practice of setting
rigid fixed prices based largely on political considerations, and obliging
traders to buy at those prices, and begun to give more weight to economic
factors. In particular, in view of the deterioration of farmers' income
resulting from several years of severe droughts, the Government is
concerned jith assuring minimum acceptable rural incomes. Although this
policy falls short of establishing a framework in accordance with economic
pricing in a strict sense, it represents a positive move away from purely
political considerations.
31.       For the current year (1985/86), producer prices were increased by
20-30 percent for millet and sorghum and by 40-50 percent for maize and
rice paddy in order to provide farmers additional incentives to produce
cereals. In the case of coarse grains, the Government intends to treat
producer prices as floor prices and to support them, if necessary, during a
transition period, i.e., before the consumer demand for local cereals has
developed sufficiently to absorb marketable surpluses of local grains. At
present, urban consumers do not readily substitute local cereals for
imported rice owing partly to the changes in dietary habits which have
taken place in favor of rice in the last few decades, and partly because
the techniques for industrial transformation of local cereals into readily
consumable products have not yet been perfected. In the current marketing
season, cereals production is estimated at one mi.lion tons, which is
somewhat above the estimated total consumption requirements of the rural
population. Accordingly, the Government intends to intervene in the market
through the Food Security Commission (CSA), whose operations would be
financed  by  the  counterpart  funds  of  food  aid.   CSA  is  the agency
responsible for distributing food aid and has an adequate network of
regional stores to buy and store local grains. Its intervention would be
limited in time and space to support producer prices as and when required.
Since the bulk of local cereals are produced as subsistence crops and
marketable surpluses (estimated at about 100,000 tons' are small relative
to the total volume of production, CSA's intervention is not expected to go
beyond 25,000 tons, for which financing has already been arranged.



- 12 -
32.       The policy  instruments  described above represent  a feasible
strategy f or the development of cereals production given the existing
economic, institutional and social constraints. Nevertheless, there are
risks  concerning:   (i)  the  impact  of higher rice prices  on  cereals
consumption patterns; (ii) the net benefits of potential substitution
effect between coarse grains production and other cash crops; and (iii)
uncertainties regarding the feasibility of new technologies for industrial
transformation of coarse grains.  While these risks are not negligible,
they are, nevertheless, worth taking since there are no clear alternatives
at this time.
33.       Groundnut  Sector Reform.   The Government's  strategy for  the
development of groundnut production, has four main thrusts:  (a) provide
adequate incentives for production through remunerative producer prices;
(b) decontrol  input  distribution  and  marketing;  (c) rationalize  the
structure and management of groundnut oil mills; and (d) reduce the cost of
state intervention  in processing  and  in marketing.   To achieve these
objectives, the Government has taken the following actions during the
1985-86 growing season: (i) liquidation of SONAR, the parastatal managing
seed and fertilizer distribution, and the transfer of groundnut marketing
responsibilities from a discredited cooperative system to the oil mills;
(ii) reduction of the centrally held seed stock by 20% to 100,000 to-..s and
limiting free distribution of seeds to 60,000 tons, with the balance sold
for cash; (iii) abolition of the levy on groundnut marketing to finance
SONAR's seed and fertilizer distribution activities; (iv) increase of 30%
in the producer price to a level which is considered adequate and
financially   sustainable   given   current  world  market   prices;   and
(v) reduction by half of the state subsidy to cover the oil mills' fixed
costs, which have tended to be high relative to variable costs because of
the seasonality of production.   As  in the past,  the Government will
continue to review the producer price of groundnuts annually in light of
world market conditions and financial constraints.
34.       The following additional measures are envisaged during 1986.
First, the state will withdraw entirely from seed distribution, except for
maintaining control over the production and quality of foundation seeds.
Producers will be free to store seeds themselves, deposit seeds for proper
storage with the oil mills or purchase their seed requirements from the
security stock managed by the oil mills.  The security stock will be
limited to 50,000 tons in 1986 and reduced gradually thereafter as
producers adapt to the new system. The Government would also prepare, by
end-June 1986, a seeds action program including measures to help producers
store their seeds under proper conditions. Second, the two state companies
involved in oil milling will be merged and a "contrat-plan" (contractual
agreement between state enterprises and the Government specifying the
respective obligations of the parties including a performance plan for the
enterprise) signed, which would provide a framework for the restructuring
of their operations, including the reorganization and reduction of capacity
of the less efficient plants. One plant is already being closed down and
about 200 employees have been laid off thereby lowering the fixed cost. In



- 13 -
addition, as a first step toward the liberalization of marketing, private
operators who meet criteria regarding creditworthiness, marketing capacity,
etc. would be allowed to buy groundnuts from producers and sell to the oil
mills. Finally, the remaining subsidies for the fixed costs of the oil
mills would be entirely eliminated as of the current crushing season.
35.       Fertilizer 'Policy.   Fertilizer distribution has been centrally
controlled and heavily subsidized (about 50% subsidy element) through the
rural  parastatals.    The   Government's   objective   is   to   decontrol
progressively the marketing channels and eliminate the subsidies. With the
abolition of SONAR, the main instrument of state intervention has been
removed.   However,  a more  limited  subsidy  scheme  (about  25Z subsidy
element) with donor financing was used during the past growing season
since, at current market prices, imported fertilizers (primarily urea) or
the special blends produced in Senegal by ICS (a recently completed
chemical fertilizer complex with foreign participation including IFC) are
not attractive to the farmers. Similar schemes are under preparation with
donor assistance for the coming season. The following principles would
guide the Government's policy on fertilizers over the next four years:
(i) subsidies (on both imported and domestically produced fertilizers)
required to ensure an increase in fertilizer consumption would not be
financed through resources of the Treasury; (ii) subsidies financed
directly by the donors would be phased out progressively by the 1989-90
growing season in accordance with a specific schedule as outlined in the
LDP; (iii) imports of fertilizers would be progressively liberalized during
the same period in parallel with the expected improvements in the operating
efficiency of ICS; (iv) marketing would be gradually transferred to the
private sector in parallel with the disengagement of the RDAs and the
development of effective rural credit; and (v) fertilizer prices would be
differentiated regionally to reflect the real costs of transportation.
36.       Restructuring of Rural Development Agencies.   The Government's
objective is to wind down the activities of the RDAs in the rural sector
and to encourage private initiative. The restructuring of RDAs would be
based on the following principles:   (i) withdrawal of RDAs from direct
production activities and limiting their mandate to planning of rural
development operations and extension; (ii) progressive elimination of state
subsidies; and (iii) reduction of staff and improvement in the quality of
retained staff. In line with these objectives, the Government has already
abolished SONAR and STN (the parastatal in charge of development of new
territories), reduced the staff of SODEVA (the groundnut development
agency) by 55%, and signed a "lettre de mission" (contractual agreement)
with SAED which calls for the latter's disengagement in accordance with a
schedule to be determined in consultation with donors. In addition, during
1986, "lettres de mission" will be finalized with SOMIVAC and SODAGRI (the
agencies for irrigation development in the Casamance region), SODEVA and
SODEFITEX (the cotton development agency).  Finally, the Government would
put in place, with donor support, a credit scheme to help the laid off
staff of RDAs (about 2000 to date) engage in remunerative activities in the
private sector (para 114).



- 14 -
B.2. Reform of Industrial Incentives
37.       The development of Senegal's industrial sector in recent years
has been constrained by internal as well as external factors. The main
internal  factors are as  follows.   First,  the strategy for industrial
development in Senegal has historically concentrated on import substitution
(with the exception of the new industries engaged in the transformation and
export of phosphates, fish and groundnuts). Given the small size of the
domestic market, this strategy has now reached its limits. The underlying
policy of high import protection has not only discouraged the development
of exports, it has simultaneously encouraged fraudulent imports. Second,
in order to stimulate investment in certain subsectors, the Government has
been granting special advantages (exemptions, rebates) to individual firms
through a system of "conventions", or contracts. This practice, which has
proliferated in recent years, has led to serious distortions of incentives
and has encouraged the allocation of resources to economically unattractive
projects.    Moreover,   the  Government  has  encountered  problems  in
administering or monitoring these privileges or in paying for them. Third,
the constraints and the complex network of controls imposed on enterprises
(e.g., price controls, investment regulations, labor legislation) have
become a block to industrial development. Although price controls have
been progressively relaxed, they still constitute an administrative
bottleneck and disincentive for some manufacturers and distributors.
38.       Because of the above situation, the Government has decided to
undertake a comprehensive reform of the industrial policy framework with
the following objectives: (i) improve the competitiveness of the sector on
both the domestic and the external markets; (ii) make enterprises bear more
fully the risk of their investment and business decisions but also enable
them to exercise fuller control over their operations (e.g., by simplifying
government regulations, reducing government interference and eliminating
price controls); and (iii) reduce the cost to the Government of
administering the industrial incentives system.
39.       The Government has undertaken  to prepare and  implement  the
industrial policy reform program through the following chronological steps:
(a) announcement of a new Industrial Policy by early-February 1986
consistent with the principles outlined in the LDP; (b) implementation of a
set of immediate measures starting in January 1986; and (c) preparation by
end   June 1986   of   a   detailed   action   program   for   the   period
July 1986-December  1988.   The gradualism implicit  in this approach  is
designed to permit the necessary restructuring operations within the sector
to take place effectively.
40.       The policy reform program, which is a result of a long dialogue
between the Government and the Bank, has the following five major elements:
(i) a rationalized  system  of protection   essentially based  on  tariff
protection with a reduced and narrowed band of harmonized tariffs; (ii) a
system of revamped export promotion measures which would ultimately make
exports as attractive as domestic sales; (iii) application of the general
fiscal and trade laws to all registered companies, and elimination of



- 15 -
individual  ad  hoc  incentives  granted  under  special  contracts  or
"conventions"   between   the   State   and    individual   enterprises;
(iv) elimination of controls or constraints burdening enterprises, and
(v) improvement of labor laws and regulations in order to foster labor
mobility and incentives to improve productivity.
41.       The decision to implement the bulk of the measures supporting the
proposed reforms over a three year period beginning in 1986 is dictated by
the very breadth and scope of the measures and the careful preparation
necessary  to  achieve  the  end  objectives.   However,  recognizing  the
importance and urgency of the reforms, the Government has decided to
introduce immediately certain measures in a balanced manner in order to
start the reform process. These immediate measures, taken in January 1986,
include the following:
Regarding protection:  (a) an immediate freeze of the number of
products subject to quotas and of an increase of some of these
quotas; (b) elimination of quantitative restrictions for a list
of goods not produced in Senegal; and (c) reduction of import
duties for 15 groups of products (some from 902 to 65%). The
lists of products for all three measures were agreed during
negotiations.
Regarding other incentives: (a) adoption of two key principles,
the first concerning the modification of the export subsidy
scheme so as to base it on industrial value added in
international prices, and the second involving the revision of
the system of drawbacks so as to make them transferable
(effective  action  on  these  two  subjects,  which  requires
preparatory work to be partly supported by the Bank, is to follow
within six months as noted below); (b) renunciation of the
practice of granting ad hoc privileges to individual firms
thriugh the system of "conventions".
42.       The main steps to be taken during 1986 are: (further detail is
included in the LDP and the SAC Action Matrix shown in Annex V)
(a) Preparation by July 1, 1986 of a detailed action program for the
additional reform measures needed, with a specific timetable for
their systematic implementation by December 1988;
(b) Elimination by July 1, 1986 of quantitative restrictions for
categories of goods starting with at least one subsector to be
identified in consultation with the Association;
(c) Introduction by July 1, 1986 of a strengthened export subsidy
scheme based on industrial value added in international prices,
which is designed to:  (i) give equivalent incentives accross
manufacturing sectors; and (ii) further reduce the divergence of
incentives between production for export and for the domestic
market (condition of release of the second tranche);



- 16 -
(d) Introduction by July 1, 1986 of a revised drawback scheme; and
(e) Adoption by the Government by October 1, 1986 of a revised tariff
Code satisfactory to the Association as a condition of release of
the second tranche.
43.       Actions will also be taken during 1986 in order to:  improve the
administrative procedures regulating hiring, firing and temporary work
contracts; simplify export and import licenses; streamline the overall
administrative procedures affecting the sector; improve the export
insurance and financing system; review existing contracts with private
enterprises; review and improve the regulations concerning salary structure
and levels; progressively eliminate remaining price controls and introduce
a new system which will permit linking salary increases to improved
productivity at the enterprise level (participation in profits, capital,
etc.). In addition, some of the measures highlighted in paras. 41-42 above
would necessitate a revision of the Investment Code.
44.      Much work will be required by the Senegalese authorities to
prepare and implement the above measures in close coordination with the
Bank and the Fund staff. The Bank, on its part, will need to extend
considerable assistance in the form of supporting preparatory missions as
well as expert technical assistance, especially with regard to the revision
of the tariff code and the export subsidy scheme. The Technical Assistance
Project for Economic Planning would finance the required studies and expert
assistance. With regard to the required restructuring of the industry-, the
Government is currently in the process of reviewing the physical state of
the sector with the help of UINIDO in order to identify plant-level
problems. It plans to organize a meeting of donors around mid-1986 to
explain the new policy framework, discuss its overall industrial strategy,
and invite support for specific restructuring efforts.  For its part, the
Bank plans to assist the Government in these efforts through an industrial
sector operation to help finance the rehabilitation and restructuring needs
of selected enterprises (para.119).
B.3. Energy Sector Policy
45.      The Government's objective is to reduce dependence on imported
sources of energy by substituting indigenous energy (such as hydro-power),
or less costly imported fuel (such as coal) for imported petroleum, and to
restrain energy consumption by increasing the efficiency of energy use
through conservation and an appropriate pricing policy. So far, efforts to
develop indigenous resources have been unsuccessful, and the consumption of
petroleum products has increased from about 600,000 tons in 1981 to about
720,000 tons in 1984. However, the proposed development of the hydro-power
potential of the Manantali dam, scheduled for completion by the end of tne
1980s, would significantly increase domestic energy production capacity.
46.      There are major distortions in the structure of energy prices in
Senegal: petroleum products for electricity generation, for fishing and
for household use are subsidized; electricity tariffs do not allow for



- 17 -
economic costs; and fuelvood and charcoal prices do not reflect the cost of
reforestation. The Government has made significant progress in addressing
these issues. During the energy sector donor meeting in July 1985, the
Government announced the following comprehensive package of price and
tariff adjustments. First, all subsidies on petroleum products would be
progressively eliminated. As a first step, significant price increases on
petroleum products were introduced with effect from July 1, 1985; as a
result, subsidies have been reduced by 40-75% on certain products (e.g.,
butane gas) and completely eliminated for others (e.g., gas-oil). Second,
taxes on gasoline products would be increased by 10-40%, while the forestry
tax on fuelwood for charcoal would rise ten-fold by January 1987 and about
twenty-fold by 1990. Third, electricity tariffs would be raised on three
occasions by 10% each time over the 18 month period from September 1985 to
March 1987. In addition, the Government would reduce its fuel oil subsidy
to SENELEC (the power utility) by 30% each in March 1986 and March 1987 and
the remainder in March 1988. These measures would be monitored under the
proposed Power I (Sector Rehabilitation) Project which is under preparation
(para. 121).
C. Public Sector Management
C.1.  Public Investment Program
47.       The  economic  difficulties  experienced  by  Senegal  since  the
mid-1970s have been accentuated by the long-standing weaknesses of the
investment selection, programming and supervision process. The four-year
development plans (of which Senegal had six until 1984/85) have been more
concerned with mobilizing new aid commitments than with ensuring that they
are allocated to good projects and spent efficiently. This has made it
difficult to program and monitor the use of resources effectively and has
contributed to the financing of unproductive and poorly-conceived projects.
Senegal has taken three major steps in recognition of the above problems:
ti) improving the analytical basis of the Seventh Plan (1985/86-1988/89)
and  its  investment  component;   (ii) preparing  an  interim,  two-year
investment program which brings further precision and refinements to, and
is more operational than, the Plan; and (iii) initiating a series of
reforms of the planning and programming process centered on the
preparation, beginning in 1987/88, of a three-year "rolling" public
investment program. These steps are described below.
48.       Seventh  Plan.   The  Seventh  Plan  outlines,  for  indicative
purposes, a four-year investment program which is consistent with the
macroeconomic objectives of the PAML - in particular, a reduction of the
investment/GDP ratio from 17 percent in the 1970s to 14 percent, coupled
with an increase in the productivity of capital. The Plan aims, inter
alia, to raise the share of the primary sector in the investment program,
to reduce the proportion of investment expenditures financed externally,
and to allow the share of private investment to rise from 28 percent during
the Sixth Plan to 37 percent. To achieve these and other objectives, the



- 18 -
Plan gives priority to rehabilitation projects, underlines the importance
of properly estimating and financing recurrent costs, and defines a set of
project  selection  criteria  which  include:   impact  on  the  growth  of
production;  employment  creation;   contribution  to  domestic  savings;
contribution to reduction of the external deficit; and alleviation of
vulnerability to external factors. A distinguishing feature of the Seventh
Plan is the delineation of 21 Priority Action Programs (PAPs) designed to
concentrate the effort on a limited number of well defined areas.
49.       Two-Year Program.  The Senegalese authorities have prepared a
public investment program (PIP) for the years 1985/86-1986/87 which has
been reviewed by the Bank staff. This program was derived from the Seventh
Plan by eliminating some large new projects of questionable justification
or priority, especially in the mining, sewerage and energy sectors, and
paying closer and more systematic attention to the advancement phase of
projects (in particular, the availability of feasibility studies).  The
two-year program amounts to about CFAF 310 billion in 1984/85 prices, or
about US$700 million at the average 1984 exchange rate. This is slightly
less than the amount for the same two years included in the Seventh Plan
and, therefore, is consistent with its macroeconomic framework.
50.       The sectoral distribution of the PIP (attached to the LDP) is in
line with Senegal's priorities, and the changes from the Sixth Plan are in
the right direction: while the share of the primary sector (agriculture
and rural water supply) has been raised from 22 percent to 35 percent, that
of the secondary and tertiary sectors combined (industry, mining and
infrastructure) has been reduced from 61 percent to 43 percent.   (The
balance  is  accounted  for  by  the  social  sectors.)    Although  the
intra-sectoral distribution of projects seems also appropriate in most
cases, the Government intends to review, in consultation with the Bank, the
priorities within certain sub-sectors to ascertain the justification of
some of the large projects and/or to assure consistency with the new policy
directions outlined in this Report. This is especially the case with the
industry projects, which were identified before the new industrial policy
was mapped out. The Government also intends to reconsider some of the new
projects in the education sector in light of their recurrent cost
Implications. Moreover, the Government has undertaken not to implement new
projects before a thorough technical, economic and financial appraisal
demonstrates their suitability in the context of the public investment
strategy and financial constraints.
51.       Investment   Programming/Budgeting   Process.    Although   the
preparation of the Seventh Plan and the two-year PIP constitute important
steps forward, additional efforts are required to translate intentions into
actions especially with respect to the following:  (i) reconciliation of
objectives and means;   (ii) stricter application of criteria based on
economic rates of return; and (iii) giving a legal foundation to the PIP to
assure fuller compliance with it.  In order to achieve these objectives,
Senegal has decided to implement a number of reforms bearing literally on
every phase of the project cycle and involving organizational changes
within the Planning Ministry. These actions should lead to the preparation



- 19 -
of a three-year program whose first year would constitute a consolidated
budget -- the first in Senegal -- and have a legal status, i.e, form part
of the budget law.   The first  three-year program is scheduled  to be
prepared during the first half of 1986, i.e., roughly a year before its
official start; this would permit the production of a final draft, to be
discussed with the donors, by late 1986 -- in time for inclusion in the
budget law for fiscal 1987/88. A satisfactory review by the Association of
the draft first three-year (1987/88-1989/90) PIP would constitute a
condition of release of the second tranche.
52.       Although the improvement of the programming process is important,
the effectiveness of the PIP will depend in large part on the quality of
the financing decisions by the donors themselves, especially with regard to
the focus, size and design of projects and their consistency with
macroeconomic and sectoral objectives. The preparation of well thought out
and documented PIPs ahead of time is expected to assist in and improve
donor decisions. In addition, the CG provides an important vehicle for the
coordination of investment decisions between Senegal and the donors as well
as among donors. The sectoral meetings on telecommunications and energy,
held within the CG framework, have proven effective in reaching a consensus
on sectoral investment strategies as well as in mobilizing the required
financing. Additional sectoral meetings are planned in 1986 (para 124).
C.2. Accelerated Reform of the Parapublic Sector
53.       An accelerated reform of public sector enterprises is necessary
to overcome the overall weaknesses in investment, savings and budgetary
performance. Following an extensive policy dialogue in this area which
started under the 1980 SAL and intensified since the meeting of the CG, the
Government adopted in July 1985 a New Parapublic Sector Strategy and Action
Plan, which has two main thrusts: divestiture and rehabilitation.
54.       Divestiture decisions will be based on sectoral strategies and on
specific evaluations of enterprises.   All enterprises  involved in the
production of commercial goods and services will be considered for
divestiture, with priority given to enterprises which are already competing
with the private sector and those which put a heavy burden on public
finances. A detailed inventory of the Government's portfolio (direct and
indirect participations) has been completed. The process of privatization
and liquidation will be launched by end June 1986 for the first group of
enterprises.
55.       The -econd thrust of the strategy focuses on the rehabilitation
of a core group of enterprises that will remain in the Government's
portfolio.  Key elements of this program are:  a reduction in overall
subsidies (direct and indirect); improved management with increased
autonomy and accountability; simplified but strengthened government
supervision of the parapublic sector; and the generalization of
"contrats-plans"  between  the  Government  and  the  remaining  public
enterprises.



- 20 -
56.       The  Government's  role  in  enterprises  in housing,  transport,
industry and banking remaining in the public sector will be assessed
through sector studies, and specific recommendations will be prepared by
end June 1986. The "contrat-plan" process will be expanded to all core
public enterprises, with at least seven additional contrats-plans to be
signed  during  1986  -   after  preparation  of  sound  diagnoses  and
rehabilitation programs. In addition, all rural development agencies will
sign a "lettre de mission" defining their future reduced role as described
in para 36.
57.       The Government intends to liquidate its arrears to the parapublic
enterprises.   A  partial  reconciliation  of  the  reciprocal  obligations
between the Government and the enterprises has been completed and a
preliminary program prepared for the liquidation of the reconciled amounts.
By end July 1986, the remaining amounts will be reconciled, and a schedule
agreed between both parties for the orderly settlement of all outstanding
debts and arrears as of June 30, 1985.
58.       Given the multitude and complexity of the measures, there will be
a need for considerable technical assistance to ensure their timely
implementation. Most of these needs have been anticipated under the Second
Technical Assistance Project for the Parapublic Sector.
C.3. Public Finance Policies
59.       Appropriate fiscal policies are essential for reducing overall
structural imbalances between resources and uses in the economy, financing
a satisfactory rate of investment, disengaging the State from the economy,
and  providing  improved  incentives  for  production.   Because  of  the
rigidities in the exchange rate field and in the setting of monetary policy
(given Senegal's membership in the West African Monetary Union), the
stabilization and improvement of the public finance situation are of
special importance for implementing the adjustment policies described
earlier in this chapter.
60.       The  Government's  fiscal  policy has  three major  objectives:
(i) achieving a substantial increase in budgetary savings; (ii) maintaining
the sectoral as well as functional allocation of current expenditures in
line with longer-term development priorities; and (iii) settling the burden
of  past  arrears.   To  achieve  these  objectives,  the  Government  will
undertake a program of specific measures which are summarized below.
Details of the proposed measures are outlined in the Action Matrix
(Annex V)  and  their  expected  impact  on  the  public  finances  and
macro-economic aggregates is discussed in Part III.
61.       Control  and  Reorientation  of  Current  Expenditures.    The
Government has already taken firm measures -- under the IMF stand-by
agreements concluded since mid-1983 -- to contain the growth in
expenditures, as shown by the figures in Annex I. The bulk of the cuts in
expenditure have fallen on operating expenditures (including budgeted
operating  subsidies  to  public  enterprises),   which  have  remained



- 21 -
approximately stable in nominal terms. While the wage bill has declined
slightly in real terms and as a share of current expenditures, interest on
public debt has grown dramatically and its share of expenditures nearly
tripled since 1980/81. Although total revenues and grants have generally
been maintained at a stable percentage of current GDP, revenue collections
from taxes and customs have shown signs of falling off during the last
year.  Finally, with improvements in the performance of the parapublic
sector and the CPSP, there has been a marked strengthening since 1982/83 in
the net position of various Treasury accounts.
62.       To  consolidate  the progress  already achieved  in controlling
current expenditures, and in view of the need to allocate more resources
for operating and maintenance expenses, the Government would take the
following actions. First, it would carry out a detailed analysis of the
sectoral and functional pattern of current expenditures.   A review of
current expenditures undertaken by Bank staff in 1982 revealed that, while
no major sectoral distortions were evident, there was a generalized
under-provision  for  operating  and maintenance  expenses.   The  proposed
study, for which terms of reference have been agreed, will provide
recommendations for any necessary shift in budgetary allocations in time
for the preparation of the 1987/88 budget.
63.       Second, in order to strengthen its control over subsidy payments
through the budget, the Government would: (i) eliminate starting with the
1987/88 budget all support for operating losses of public enterprises and
to limit transfer payments for social/public services to those which the
Government specifically requires enterprises to provide; (ii) provide
subsidies only on the basis of assessed needs in the context of contractual
agreements between the Government and enterprises; (iii) reduce budgetary
subsidies by a minimum of 50 percent (in nominal terms) between 1985/86 and
1989/90; (iv) accelerate the pace of subsidy reduction beyond the minimum
target, if the detailed study to be completed by mid-1986 (and to be
submitted to the Bank for review) indicates that a faster pace could be
achieved without resulting in a substantial reduction of essential public
services; (v) elaborate a system for accurate recording of these subsidies
(with an economic and functional classification); and (vi) carry out a
detailed analysis of all indirect subsidies, permitting their monitoring in
a convenient form ("tableau de bord").
64.       Finally,  the Government would  reduce the excessive  share of
current revenues which is preempted by the wage bill, by inter alia: (i)
freezing the total number of civil servants at their level of July 1, 1985
(70,114), at least through end June 1988; and (ii) limiting the annual
growth rate in the wage bill to approximately half the expected growth rate
in fiscal revenues, such that the ratio of the wage bill to fiscal revenues
(55.3% in 1984/85) would not exceed 53% in 1985/87, 51% in 1986/87 and 48%
in 1987/88.  To meet these targets,  the Government would limit salary
increases for civil servants essentially to those resulting from scale
advancements and promotions.



- 22 -
65.       Tax Reform and Strengthening Tax Administration.  Over the years,
Senegal's tax base has undergone a number of changes which have led to a
shift towards indirect taxation as the principal revenue source. However,
recent experience suggests that indirect taxation cannot be relied on to
sustain an adequate growth in revenue. In addition, there are weaknesses
in some of the material and organizational aspects of the tax and customs
administration. Accordingly, in addition to preparing a new Tariff Code
(para.42), the Government would take the following fiscal reform measures,
which will be monitored by the IMF: (i) submission of the final report of
a Tax Reform Commission proposing revisions to the Tax Code; (ii)
completion of a test of a new cadastral survey of the Dakar region (as an
updated base for assessment of property taxes); and (iii) preparation of a
detailed plan of action for the strengthening of the Customs Department.
66.       Reduction of Government Payment Arrears and Domestic Debt.  The
progressive reduction of the Central Government's massive arrears - some
more than six years old - to private and parapublic enterprises and debts
to the banking sector is an important channel for the recycling of
budgetary savings into the economy to allow faster growth. If resources
permit, the Government plans to reinject CFAF 20-30 billion of much-needed
liquidity into the non-government sector over the next three years.  It
should be noted in this connection that because of an unforeseen shortfall
in revenues (brought about by the poor groundnut crop in 1984/85), Senegal
has in recent months built up substantial arrears on its external debt
service payments (estimated at CFAF 11 billion at end-December 1985). The
Government has agreed to make every effort to eliminate these arrears by
end June 1986 and to consult regularly with the Bank and the IMF on the
progress it is making in that regard.  This factor will constrain the
Government's ability to reduce the domestic arrears during 1985/86.
67.       Specific  actions  would  be  taken  to  prepare  a  long-overdue
inventory of domestic arrears, together with a detailed plan and a set of
priorities for the reduction of those arrears, as well as of the
Government's debt to the banking sector (ONCAD debt). 3/ An exhaustive
reevaluation  of the stock of arrears has already been initiated.   In
addition, the Government has established the following preliminary order by
which arrears will be settled in the future: (i) arrears to
small/medium-scale enterprises would be paid first; (ii) for arrears to
large-scale enterprises, selection would be based upon a judgment of their
economic and fiscal multiplier effects; and (iii) other things being equal,
the oldest arrears would be settled first. However, the Government has not
yet determined the relative priority to be given to paying suppliers or
banks, with the explicit objective of improving the liquidity situation of
certain banks, which would possibly permit them to increase their lending
for productive new projects.  Accordingly, during 1986, the Ministry of
Finance, in conjunction with the BCEAO staff, would carry out a study of
the banking system, which would examine the latter's capacity to recycle
additional resources effectively for the recovery of the economy and would
make racommendations for the improvement of the functioning of the
3/ The debt of the former agricultural marketing parastatal, estimated at
about CFAF 92 billion, which was taken over by the Government on the
abolition of that agency in 1980.



- 23 -
financial sector in Senegal. Based on the conclusions of this study and
the previously-described exercises concerning the reevaluation and analysis
of the Government's arrears stock, a set of operational criteria and
priorities will be drawn up in consultation with the Association and the
IMF for the settlement of arrears during the 1986/87 and 1987/88 fiscal
years.
68.       Improved Debt Management.  An unsustainable external debt burden
is one of the principal constraints on development which Senegal has
inherited from the past. Apart from its decision last year not to resort
to commercial borrowing to finance its operations and, more recently, to
give priority during 1985/86 to eliminating external debt arrears, the
Government would undertake a series of measures designed to improve its
debt management capability. First, the computerized debt management system
established under a program of IDA-financed technical assistance would be
further improved.   Second. a decision has been made to discontinue the
transfer of debt relief negotiated by the Government to final borrowers.
Third, in recognition of the need to make a clear presentation of debt
service obligations in the annual Budget, the resources allocated to the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (a special Treasury account from which debt
service payments are made) will be increased by a minimum of 10 percent a
year over the next three years.  Although not sufficient to cover all
scheduled interest payments, this represents a step in the right direction.
Finally, the aid coordination arrangements within the framework of the CG
are designed to strengthen the link between borrowing decisions, production
effects and debt servicing capacity.
69.       CPSP Reform.  This agency implements the Government's policies
for the support and stabilization of prices of the major exported and
imported agricultural products (groundnuts, cotton, sugar, rice, flour and
vegetable oil).  The financial operations of this agency have a major
impact on the performance of the agricultural, agro-industrial and banking
sectors oi. the economy, as well as on the government budget. Since 1980,
it is estimated that the CPSP incurred a cumulative deficit of CFAF 35
billion (including the operations of the former SONAR, which it financed),
representing a substantial share of the overall budgetary deficits. The
absence of reliable accounting systems in the CPSP have posed considerable
problems for the management of the Government's finances and agricultural
and industrial incentive policies. These difficulties were aggravated when
the CPSP also became responsible, in 1980, for rice importing and marketing
operations.   Consequently, a thorough reform of this agency's role and
operations becaime a foremost priority for the Government.
70.       Following diagnostic studies carried out by consultants financed
by France, USAID and IDA, the Government has begun to implement measures
relating to CPSP's internal management, which have already had a
substantial positive effect on the public finance outlook for 1985/86.
These measures involve, inter alia:  installing new management systems and
controls; repayment of CFAF 17 billion of bank credits; adoption of a
schedule for the payment of arrears on customs duties on rice imports and
payment of CFAF 2.5 billion as of end November 1985; and collection of
substantial amounts due by rice traders.



- 24 -
71.       In addition, the Government has decided  to remove the rice
operation from the CPSP and to privatize the rice trade within the
indicative import targets which the Government will continue to set in line
with its policy to promote the consumption of local cereals and to reduce
rice imports on a per capita basis (para. 28). However, during a two-year
transition period, the Government would maintain a partial involvement in
the market. This is necessary to ensure that adequate supplies of rice (a
strategic staple) are available throughout the country before the private
sector has had the opportunity to adjust to the new system and to develop a
distribution network outside the Dakar area. In the past, private traders
had not found it profitable to trade in these areas primarily because of a
pricing structure, which, among other things, did not take the real cost of
transportation into account.
72.       Accordingly, the new system, which will be put in place with
effect from May 1986 (i.e., the expiration of CPSP's current contracts) as
a condition of the release of the second tranche, would be based on the
following arrangements subject to final details being worked out in
consultation with the major donors by end-February 1986:  (1) a security
stock of 60,000 tons (equivalent to about two months imports) to be
financed by food aid counterpart funds would be constituted and managed by
SONADIS -- a public-private mixed company involved in the distribution of
rice and other goods throughout the country; (ii) during the transition
period, SONADIS would import and distribute directly 80,000 tons (estimated
consumption in the urban centers outside Dakar); the balance of the
requirements would be imported and distributed freely by private
importersitraders who would have to fulfill certain minimum objective
criteria (relating to creditworthiness, financial capacity, etc.) under a
licensing  scheme  to  be  administered  by  a  committee  composed  of
representatives of various ministries with the assistance of an independent
audit firm; and (iii) the Government would continue to set the level and
structure of the rice price, which would include margins based on real
transport  cost.   In  addition,  the  Government  intends  to  study  the
modalities of privatizing SONADIS with donor assistance with a view to a
complete privatization of the rice trade.
D. Next Phase of Adjustment
73.       It is too early to determine the precise content of policies and
reforms during the next phase of adjustment starting around mid-1987. To
some extent, the policies and measures for the next phase would depend on
the experience in implementing the first phase of the PAML.  The main
elements of the next phase of adjustment are likely to include: further
liberalization of marketing system for cereals (to include paddy rice) and
groundnuts; elimination of the floor price mechanism for cereals and the
subsidy scheme for fertilizers; complete privatization of the rice trade
and decontrcl of the consumer price of rice; further decontrol of prices
and wages in the industrial sector; reform of the banking system; budget
reform towards a system of program budgeting; reform of the civil service,
including redefinition of tasks of major departments and development of
long-term manpower planning; and continued improvements in the quality of
public investments and the structure of current expenditures.



- 25 -
III. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT
74.       The Government's program of medium- and long-term adjustment
(PAML) is designed to correct the unsustainable economic trends which were
described in Part I and to put the economy back on a sustainable growth
path over an eight-year period, 1985-92. The proposed SAC would support
the first phase of the PAML, a phase which marks the consolidation of the
ongoing financial stabilization efforts begun with close support from the
IMF and an increasing emphasis on reinvigorating the productive sectors.
Through more positive incentive policies for agriculture and industry and
measures to improve the quality of investment decisions and public sector
management, the SAC would assist Senegal to make better use of its
development potential, improve employment prospects and lay the foundations
for growth and development in the medium term. The SAC would aim, in
particular, to reverse the present trend of declining real living standards
by the end of the decade.
A. Economic Impact
75.       Senegal's  economy  cannot  grow  without  undergoing  profound
adjustment. The trend rate of growth of Senegal's GDP over the past two
decades is estimated at only 2.3% a year - lower than the rate of
population growth (2.9% a year). The last CEM showed that past trends were
unsustainable because they generated a structural and ever-widening gap on
the balance of payments, implying an insoluble financing problem. By 1990
the overall deficit on the balance of payments as well as the government
budget financing gap would both be of the order of US$250 million per year,
or 5 percent of projected GDP, while public investments would have to be
financed entirely by external resources. Total debt outstanding would rise
from 40% of GDP in 1981 to 80Z in 1990, and 105% in 1995, and the ratio of
debt service to exports would approach 30 percent by 1995. In short, there
is no "trend scenario" for Senegal's economy because past trends,
unadjusted, do not constitute a feasible scenario at all.
76.       Therefore, two distinct sets of projections were prepared for the
CEM and recently updated: Projection "A" portrays what might take place if
there were no attempt to implement structural adjustment policies: in this
case the adjustment is a "forced" one, requiring the growth in GDP to be
kept down to a rate at which the balance of payments is equilibriated.
Projection "B" illustrates a growth path which is feasible and consistent
with estimated financing resources, provided that adjustment policies are
applied. The results of these two projection scenarios are summarized in
Table 1 and details are given in Annex VI.



_ 26 -
Table I
Macroeconomic Projections Summary
Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
Provisional   Projection "A"         Projection "B"
Actual  Estimates   "Forced adjustment"  "Managed adjustment"
1984      1985       1986-90  1990-95      1986-90   1990-95
Growth Rates (% p.a.)
GDP (at market prices)              -4.1       2.1       1.4        1.9         3.4        4.1
Primary                        -18.7        4.8       0.3        1.8         2.8        3.2
Secondary                       -1.4        -.9       1.8        1.9        4.6         5.5
Tertiary                           .6       2.6       1.6         2.0        3.0        3.6
Exports of GNFS                   -13.2         .9       2.6        1.5         5.1        3.7
Imports of GNFS                    -7.8        1.7       1.0        1.7         2.9        4.0
Percent of GDP (current)
Private Consumption                 79.1      76.5      75.0       75.0        72.7       74.3
Public Consumption                 19.8       19.0      17.6       17.1        16.6       14.7
Domestic Savings a/                  1.0       4.5       7.4        7.8        10.7       11.1
Investment, total                  13.0       14.5      13.2       13.3       17.3        17.4
Resource Balance                  -12.0      -10.0      -5.8       -5.5        -6.6       -6.3
Budgetary Savings                   -1.2      -3.4      -3.9       -4.0       +1.1        +2.2
Overall Fiscal Deficit              -4.1      -2.1      -6.8       -6.7        -5.9       -3.3
Current Account Balance            -17.7     -15.0      -8.9       -7.8        -9.7       -8.7
Memorandum Items
ICOR                                 ..        5.1       6.3        6.2        4.2         3.9
GDP per cap. growth rate           -7.8       -1.1      -1.5       -1.1         0.5        1.0
Private per cap. consumption bl    75.1       73.3      72.4       68.9       73.8        78.1
Debt Service Ratio (%) cl           10.8      18.5      21.0       16.7        20.0       15.1
Interest/Gov't Revenue (%) dJ      19.5       18.6      15.5       U1.3       15.0        11.9
Debt Outstanding/GDP (%) e/         74.2      81.6      63.8       58.9        66.1       60.8
USS Million (annual averages)
Current account balance          -41U       -366      -340       -432        -385       -540
Net private & direct inv't         82         37        43         81         43          81
Official transfers                129        US        140        194         140        194
Actual/projected disbursements f/ 235        269        91          4          91          4
Actual/projected amortization fl   35         58       163        126        163         126
New financing required (net) I/      -         -       229        279         274        387
a/  Excluding terms of trade adjustment.
b/  In terms of constant CFAF'OOO (1979).
cJ After debt rescheduling in 1984 and 1985.
d/  Interest payments on public debt as % of total revenues.
e/  Including required additional financing.
fl On existing commitments (to end 1984).
^/ Excluding new debt rescheduling and net use of IHF resources.



- 27 -
77.       Projection A, the "forced adjustment" scenario, suggests that
without successful policy adjustment, even the past 2.3% rate of growth
could probably not be sustained, because aid flows would not be sufficient
to  finance  a widening  balance  of  payments  deficit.   Such  a  "forced
adjustment" scenario would permit an estimated average rate of growth of
GDP between 1985 and 1995 of no more than 1.9% a year, implying a decline
in private per capita consumption of about 0.9% annually over this period.
Without structural adjustment, attempts to generate a faster growth in
incomes and consumption would be choked off by insufficient liquidity to
finance  the  induced  increase  in  import  demand.   This  scenario  is,
therefore, one of low savings, low investment, low growth, high
unemployment and falling wages, acute financial shortages in all sectors,
and heightened vulnerability to drought-induced or other exogenous shocks.
Even if this equilibrium remained a stable one, the base for future
economic development in Senegal would be severely weakened. Moreover, by
1995, the Senegalese population would have foregone the equivalent of five
years' income growth, as compared with the "managed adjustment" scenario.
78.       Projection B illustrates  the only viable alternative  to the
forced adjustment scenario, that of a phased and coordinated "managed
adjustment" program of measures for stabilizing the economy and for
encouraging growth in tradeables production. Under this scenario a gradual
acceleration of the annual growth rate of GDP from an average of 3.4% over
1986-90 to about 4% from 1990 onwards would be feasible and compatible with
internal and external financing constraints. It should be recognized that
there is uncertainty attached to expectations regarding the supply response
of Senegal's economy to an improved policy environment for agriculture and
industry and for investment, and regarding the participation of donors in
financing the adjustment process, as well as assumptions regarding the
external  environment.   The  main  assumptions  underlying  the  "managed
adjustment" scenario relate to the structure and growth of production and
to the allocation of available resources between consumption and savings.
79.       Concerning  output,  the new  support  policies  for agriculture
already being introduced would, it is estimated, lead to an average rate of
growth in value-added in the primary sector of some 2.8% a year between now
and 1990 and of 3.1% a year after 1990. 4/ Part of this improvement over
the 1.1% a year average growth rate for this sector over the period 1980-85
is due to the recovery of agricultural production in the 1985/86 season
from the two previous drought years. However, the pivotal difference as
compared with Projection "A" lies in the expected response of farmers to
improved price and marketing incentives for cereal production, which would
attain a level of about 1.2 million tons/year by 1990, compared with a
1981-85 average of about 0.9 million tons.  This would permit rice and
wheat imports per capita to fall by at least 15% between 1985 and 1990. It
is also expected that the recent declining trend in groundnut production
and exports could be halted by 1990 as a result of maintaining remunerative
prices, shifting the center of production southwards into better-rainfall
areas and by implementing a program for seed quality improvement and
4/   These average growth rates allow for the incidence of drought.



- 28 -
nematode pest control. In the 1990-95 period, a more favorable climate for
private investment and planned public investments in irrigation and rural
water supply should lead to a diversification of marketed agricultural
production into higher value crops, including horticultural products -- an
export sub-sector with considerable potential for Senegal.
80.       The new industrial incentive policies would, it is estimated,
lead to an acceleration of the secondary seccor growth rate -- but only
after about 1989, since some uncompetitive factories might be forced to
reduce activities and others would need some time to reequip and to adapt
their product lines in order to become competitive on export markets.
Between 1990 and 1995, it is expected that the industrial sector could
achieve a growth rate of about 5.5% a year, as compared with only about 2%
a year without adjustment.  The private services sector is expected to
benefit from a progressive liberalization of commerce, notably in rice and
domestic cereals marketing and distribution. However, under the managed
adjustment scenario the value-added imputed to public administration is
deliberately  kept  constant  between  1985  and  1988,  reflecting  the
Government's policy cemmitments outlined in Part II for control of the
government  wage  bill  and  other  government  consumption.   Growth  in
commercial energy demand and supply is expected to be maintained at about
3.5% a year between 1985 and 1990 as a result of the Government's more
stringent policies to eliminate subsidies and to reduce fuel imports.
81.       The main thrust behind the managed adjustment scenario is an
increase in the rate of domestic savings, from 4.5 percent of GDP in 1985
to 111 percent by 1990, which would accelerate the process of structural
adjustment in the economy.  This, combined with the effect of improved
public investment programming on the rate of return of investment, and of
giving greater scope to the private sector, would result in a reduction in
the economy-wide Incremental Capital Output Ratio (ICOR) from 4.4 in
1985-90 to 3.9 in 1990-95, compared to an average of 6.3 under the forced
adjustment scenario.
82.       Under the managed adjustment scenario, a substantial improvement
in the public finance situation is expected between 1985 and 1990. Current
budgetary savings would change from -0.8 percent of GDP in 1984/85 to 2.6
percent of GDP by 1988/89, as a result of the strict containment of the
government wage bill and of transfers to the parapublic sector.  There
would also be an improvement in the share of total current expenditure
devoted to supplies, maintenance and operations by the central government,
which have been severely curtailed in the 1980-85 period (para 61). The
overall financing requirement of the central government (equivalent to the
overall fiscal deficit on a cash basis as defined by the IMF) would rise
somewhat faster in nominal terms between 1985 and 1990 under the managed
adjustment scenario as compared with the forced adjustment scenario, due to
the higher investment rate under the former. but would be substantially
lower as a percentage of GDP.
83.       Under both adjustment scenarios, the current account deficit of
the balance of payments (excluding official transfers) would decline (both



- 29 -
in relative and absolute terms) during the 1986-90 period, compared with
the recent past. The current account deficit has been equivalent to about
US$435 million per year on average between 1981 and 1985, or 18% of GDP.
This deficit would be reduced between 1986 and 1990 as a result of measures
to promote export production and to limit the growth in food and consumer
goods  imports  (through import-substitution  and  fiscal policies).   The
average deficit (and therefore external financing requirement) during
1986-90 is estimated to be somewhat higher under Projection B than under
Projection A -- US$385 million, as compared with about US$ 360 million, per
year on average. This is primarily due to the higher rate of investment
and imports of intermediate goods needed to sustain a faster rate of growth
of GDP under the managed adjustment scenario.
84.       Financing Requirements.  Although the current account deficit is
projected to decline between 1981-85 and 1986-90, increased aid efforts as
compared with the past years are needed to enable Senegal to implement its
adjustment program. This is because of the growing debt service burden.
If, for example, gross annual disbursements of medium and long term loans
(MLT) were to remain unchanged between 1986 and 1990 at their estimated
1985 level of about US$250 million equivalent, then no less than 65 percent
(US$163 million per year on average) would simply be absorbed by existing
amortization obligations - which include maturities already rescheduled
under the Paris and London Club agreements.   Therefore, a substantial
increase in the rate of gross disbursements is needed to maintain a total
net inflow (including official transfers) in line with the estimated
financing requirements cited above. As shown in the preceding paragraph,
these are estimated to be some 10 percent lower, in current dollar terms,
in 1986-90 thar. in the 1981-85 period.
85.       What is the magnitude of the increased aid effort required?
Allowing only for a modest increase in net private capital inflows and in
grant aid from bilateral donors, and counting, for illustration, only
expected disbursements from the existing pipeline of investment loans
(committed as of end-1984), net annual disbursements would then amount to
only about US$110 million in 1986-90, and about US$ 150 million in 1990-95.
The net additional (new) external financing required under the high growth
scenario would thus amount to about US$275 million a year in 1986-90, and
about $390 million a year in 1990-95.  These figures, averaging US$330
million a year for the projection period, compare with an average for
recent years (1981-85) of about US$250 million per year. In the next few
years, the increase needed over the recent past could still largely be
covered by recourse to conventional debt rescheduling.   The short-term
relief thus gained would, however, involve a negative net impact on the
balance of payments after 1990, and would therefore only constitute a
second-best solution.
86.       The alternative, preferred solution would involve multilateral
and bilateral donor agencies increasing their gross disbursements of
project and non-project aid (including grants), to about US$440 million per
year on average between 1986-1990 compared to roughly US$360 million in the
early 1980's in current terms. Part of the increase in disbursements by



- 30 -
the bilateral donors should take the form of long-term debt relief or
equivalent grants. The adjustment program is also expected to result in an
increase in the contribution of foreign private capital, but mainly after
1990  as  Senegal's  creditworthiness  and  investment  prospects  improve.
(Including direct foreign investment, net private capital inflow is
projected to remain at about US$40 million per year in 1986-90 and then to
pick up to an average of US$80 million per year in 1990-95). The required
effort by aid donors could be met by combining a sustained 6% annual growth
in grant aid with a 9X annual increase in new (mainly concessional) NILT
commitments between 1986 and 1990, but showing to a 62 annual increase (in
nominal terms)  after  1990.   Such solution is consistent with the aid
indications discussed at the CG.
87.       Despite the uncertainties inherent in projecting net external
financing needs, it seems clear that some increase in gross disbursement
levels will be needed to enable Senegal to finance the managed adjustment
program, given its external debt situation.  The adjustment program has
been designed as a balanced program, giving due weight to the respective
needs of short-term stabilization and of long-term development.  If the
external resources indicated above are not mobilized, the need for
adjustment will remain but the balance and the feasibility of the program
could be impaired, because of the necessity for even deeper cutbacks in
consumption and in the imports of goods needed to sustain economic activity
and investment.   A  failure to preserve this essential balance in  the
program between restraint and provision for growth could have serious
consequences for Senegal's long-term economic prospects.
B. Social Impact
88.       In Senegal, as in other countries, structural adjustment has its
social costs. These costs are unavoidable, although they are likely to be
less painful than the social costs involved in a "forced adjustment"; but
they are nevertheless real and they ultimately condition the pace at which
structural reform can be implemented. The risk factor in this regard is
discussed in Part IV.
89.       The social costs of adjustment in Senegal consist, in economic
terms,  of  two  components:   (i)  a  planned  overall  reduction  in  real
consumption levels in order to permit savings and investment for the
future; and (ii) a reallocation of incomes and transfers between different
social and economic  groups.   Although  it is possible  to attach some
quantitative indicators only to the first component, the second (the
redistributive aspect) is likely to be of at least equal importance during
SAC implementation.
90.       It should be underlined that Senegal is unable to "grow its way
out" of its economic crisis in the medium term:  its economic situation
necessitates an absolute reduction in average per capita consumption before
there can be an improvement, and some further belt-tightening appears



- 31 -
necessary.  Fortunately, much of this adjustment in consumption has taken
place already.   In the period  1977-78 -- before  the economic  crisis
appeared -- Senegal's per capita consumption averaged CFAF 97,000 per
annum; in 1985 it will have fallen to only about CFAF 92,000 (both figures
expressed in constant 1979 terms). According to our projections of the
"managed adjustment" scenario, the turning point would be reached in 1988:
in that year average per capita consumption would be only CFAF 91,000 (in
1979 terms), after this point it could begin to increase by approximately
1.0% per annum.  The 1977-78 level of per capita consumption would be
regained in 1994-95. The Government's recently adopted Seventh Development
Plan specifically incorporates the above assumptions.
91.       Few reliable data on income distribution in Senegal are available
since a household budget survey conducted in 1960, which showed very marked
differences between average urban and rural real incomes and within urban
and rural groups: it is believed that this pattern still largely persists
and has led to substantial rural-urban migration, especially during the
1970s.  However,  the gap betw,en average urban and rural incomes has
alraady begun to narrow as a consequence of the Government's adjustment
policies.
92.       In a broad sense, the program involves a major shift in income
distribution from urban areas to rural communities as a whole. Farmers'
real incomes will benefit from the new pricing policies for agriculture,
while urban consumers are already paying much higher prices for all basic
food commodities (rice, fish, meat, sugar, cooking oil, and bread), both
imported and domestically produced.   The Government's new policies for
agriculture are also now addressing the key issue of assuring a more
balanced development between different regions of the country. At the same
time, urban incomes have been reduced by Government policies for the
containment of wage increases, especially in the public sector which
represents over half the formal employment market, and for the reduction of
other  current  expenditures  and  transfers.   In  the  past,  the  public
investment program was used to some extent as a counter-cyclical instrument
to  maintain   employment   levels,   but  this  policy  contributed  to
inefficiencies in investment and is no longer feasible.
93.       The reform of incentive policies for industry may typify the
overall effects of the program on employment and income distribution: in
the short run, some reductions in wage rates and/or employment may occur,
as inefficient firms face increased import competition.   In the medium
term, however, new employment opportunities and improved earnings are
expected as manufacturing and processing industries respond to the new
situation  and as controls  on  internal  trade are relaxed.   This more
favorable environment for private investment and entrepreneurship is likely
to encourage a faster departure of government employees into private sector
activities, which would in turn permit some improvement in rewards for
performance in the civil service, compensating partly for its overall loss
of remuneration since the adjustment process began. The reorientation of
Government current expenditures should also permit renewed attention to -
given to maintaining essential social services.



- 32 -
94.       The speed at which these economic and social adjustments will
take place, particularly those dependent on the supply response of farmers
and industrialists,  is hard to predict.  What  is certain is that the
Government will need to exercise all its skills to ensure that the
essential consensus in favor of thm- total reform package
is preserved. There is also no dolbt that whatever may be the short-term
social costs involved in the managed adjustment process, they would be
minimal as compared to the social costs of a forced adjustment, in terms
both of future overall consumption and of inequities among social groups.
PART IV - IDA'S ROLE AND THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Role of IDA in the Adjustment Process
95.       The nature of Senegal's crisis is such that decisive progress is
not possible unless action is taken over the medium-term to address
simultaneously the central issues related to production incentives and
economic management.   These  central  incentive  and economic mansgement
issues effectively undermine efforts initiated at the sectoral level.
Accordingly, an essential feature of IDA's lending strategy for Senegal is
to plan for a series of realistically targetted structural adjustment
credits over to next several years which would serve as a "strategic
framework"  for  addressing  the  central  issues.   Sectoral  and  project
operations would reinforce the reforms supported by the structural
adjustment program and translate them into longer-term development gains.
Operations of this sort, complementary to the proposed SAC, are under
preparation in agriculture, industry and energy as described in Part V.
96.       Coordination of donor activities in support of the adjustment
effort is another essential element of the above strategy. The meetings of
the CG would continue to focus on the general framework of adjustment
policies and development strategy. These would be supplemented by a series
of sectoral meetings of donors to discuss specific sectoral issues and
investment priorities (para. 124).
B. Background to the Proposed Operation
97.       Following an extensive policy dialogue in the context of the
preparation of the last CEM, the Government outlined a medium-term
adjustment program (1985 - 1992) at the December 1984 meeting of the CG.
Two IDA missions in February and April/May 1985 helped the Senegalese
authorities prepare a comprehensive program of policies and measures for
the first phase (1985-87) of the adjustment program to be supported by the
proposed operation. This program was appraised by two IDA missions in
September and November 1985, which also reviewed the 1985-87 public
investment program.  Technical discussions took place in Washington on
December 16-18, 1985, and negotiations were held in Washington on December
19, 1985, with a Senegalese delegation headed by His Excellency Cheikh



- 33 -
HRmidou Kane, Minister of Planning and Cooperation, who submitted to the
Association the Government's latter of development policy dated December
19, 1985, which forms the basis for this operation (Annex IV).
Supplementary data appear in Annex III.
C. The Proposed Financing Package
98.       The Government's structural adjustment program would be suppirted
by a proposed Development Credit of US$20 million and a proposed African
Facility (AF) Credit of US$ 44 million on standard IDA terms, and a Special
Joint Financing non-reimbursable Contribution of Sw F 13.5 million (about
US$ 6 million equivalent) by Switzerland (heretofore called the grant) and
administered by the Association.  The proposed credits and grant would
amount to a total of US$70 million equivalent of which US$35 million would
be made available immediately after credit effectiveness. The remaining
US$35 million would be released after the Government has made significant
and satisfactory progress in implementing the structural adjustment
program, notably in completing the specific actions described in paragraph
103 below. The proposed credits and grant are expected to be disbursed
over the 15-month period ending about Jun-, 1987. They would finance about
4 percent of Senegal's 1986-87 imports of goods and would meet about 7.5
percent of the 1986 - 87 gross external capital requirements of the
country.
99.       In meeting  the  gross  external  capital  requirements  of  the
country, the proposed credits and grant would be complemented by net IMF
credits, official grants, project foreign borrowings and other non-project
financing. Among the latter, USAID is preparing a three-year US$ 45
million program under the Economic Support Fund for the period October 1985
- September 1988 ($15 million has already been authorized of which $10
million was disbursed in December 1985; authorization of subsequent
disbursements and additional program amounts will depend on progress in
meeting agreed conditions), and is also considering a US$10-20 million
program under the African Economic Policy Reform Program for the year
starting October 1, 1985.  In addition, CCCE has agreed on a CFAF 10
billion (about US$ 22 million equivalent) structural adjustment loan, of
which three-quarters will be disbursed during the 1985/86 fiscal year
mainly in support of agricultural reform (notably groundnuts) and repayment
of arrears. France has also recently provided a special grant of CFAF 5
billion for balance of payments support.
100.      In preparing the program to be supported by the proposed credits
and grant, IDA staff have consulted extensively with the donor community,
in particular the IMF and those involved in structural adjustment
operations. These aid coordination efforts have helped in ensuring a
consistency and complementarity between the policy contents of the various
structural adjustment type operations supported by the donor community.



- 34 -
D.   Monitorable Actions
101.      The action program described in the following paragraphs reflects
the agreements reached with the Government as to the key policies needed to
stimulate private sector initiative and to improve production incentives in
agriculture and industry, and the central management reforms required to
achieve greater efficiency in the use of public resources.  A detailed
program of measures under the SAC is described in matrix form in Annex V,
which contains a schedule and identifies actions to be monitored during
supervision.
102.      The following actions have already been taken by the Government
under the proposed program:
a.   agreement on the objectives and policies of a 1984/85-1985/86
stand-by arrangement with the IMF (para.16);
b.   an increase in the consumer price of rice from CFAF 130/kg to
CFAF 160/kg (para.28);
C.   lifting  all  barriers  and  administrative  controls  previously
imposed on the internal marketing of cereals (except paddy)
(para.29);
d.   an increase in the producer prices for the 1985/86 crop year as
follows:   20-30 percent for millet,  sorghum,  and groundnuts;
40-50 percent for maize, rice paddy and cotton (paras. 31,33);
e.   liquidation of the state groundnut  seed distribution agency
(SONAR) and transfer of its remaining functions to the oil mills;
abolition starting with the current (1985186) crop season of
levies on groundnut sales to finance state distribution of
fertilizers and seeds; reduction of the centrally - held
groundnut seed stock from 120,000 tons to 100,000 tons as of the
1985/86 crop season and distribution to farmers of only 60,000
tons free of charge; and halving of the state guarantee for the
coverage of 80 percent of oil millers' fixed costs in 1985 (para.
33);
f.   laying-off of about 2000 staff of selected rural development
agencies (para. 36);
g.   preparation of a satisfactory 1985/86 - 86/87 public investment
program (paras. 49-50);
h.   adoption of a new strategy for Parapublic Sector Reform and an
action program (para. 53);
i.   discontinuation of past practice of automatically transferring to



- 35 -
public enterprises  the benefits of conventional debt rescheduling
(para. 68); and
j.   settlement of CPSP's debt to the banking sector, and adoption of
a schedule for repayment of arrears on customs duties (para. 70);
k.   freezing the list of products subject to quotas and an increase
in the import quotas for 1986 (para.41);
1.   elimination of prior import authorization for certain goods not
produced in Senegal (para. 41);
m.   adoption by the Government of a draft amendment to the customs
tariff law reducing tariff rates on 15 categories of goods (some
from  90  percent  to  65  percent)  as  a  final  step  before
parliamentary approval which is expected shortly (para.41); and
o.   reorganization  of  the Ministry  of  Planning  and  Cooperation
effective January 1, 1986, as a prelude to the introduction of a
three-year rolling public investment programming and consolidated
budgeting system (para. 51).
103.     Disbursement of the second tranche would be contingent upon the
Government making significant and satisfactory progress in implementing the
structural adjustment program, notably in completing the following actions
in a manner satisfactory to the Association and consistent with the
objectives of the adjustment program:
a.  agreement with the Association on a satisfactory action program
for the development of domestic cereals production (para. 29);
b.   adoption  of  a  new  draft  tariff  code  satisfactory  to  the
Association and consistent with the new Industrial Policy (para.
42);
c.   revision of the export subsidy scheme to an industrial value
added basis (para. 42);
d.   satisfactory review by the Association of the first three-year
(1987188-89/90) public investment program (para. 51); and
e.   effective  separation  of  the  rice  operation  from  CPSP  and
privatization of importing and internal marketing of rice
consistent with the principles outlined in the LDP (paras.
71-72);
104.     The structural adjustment program would be implemented by the
various government departments and agencies involved in the reform process,
under the --erall responsibility of the Minister of Planning and
Cooperation.    The   latter   would   report   to   a   specially-created
Interministerial Committee which was established in early 1985 with the



- 36 -
mandate to coordinate and supervise the design and monitoring of the
adjustment program and composed of the Ministers of Economy and Finance,
Rural Development, Commerce, Industrial Development and Handicrafts, and
the Minister of State, and chaired by the President of the Republic. Since
the first meeting of the CG, the Interministerial Committee has met on
three occasions and is expected to meet about every three months hereafter
to review progress under the adjustment program. To monitor and control
the day-to-day execution of the program, the Government has established a
Technical Follow-up Committee which acts as a permanent secretariat for the
Interministerial Committee. The Technical Committee is already operational
with UNDP assistance.  To strengthen the analytical capability of the
Technical Committee, the Bank has agreed to second an economist under the
Technical Assistance Program for IDA Only Countries. These institutional
arrangements appear at present sufficient to ensure timely and adequate
monitoring of the measures under the adjustment program. In addition, the
Government would from time to time review with the Association in the light
of experience the adequacy of these monitoring arrangements.
105.      The  Association's  supervision  and  monitoring  process  would
include at least two public investment reviews and six supervision
missions.  The first investment review took place in September-November
1985 and agreed on a satisfactory program for 1985/86-86/87. The proposed
supervision missions would supplement the regular follow-up by the Resident
mission in the field. Through these arrangements the Association would
maintain a close dialogue with the Senegalese authorities in order to
provide advice and support at crucial stages of the program implementation.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
106.     The proceeds of the proposed credits and Swiss grant ($70 million
in total) would be used exclusively for the financing of the foreign
exchange cost of eligible imports.   Procurement  procedures have been
designed to permit rapid use of the funds while ensuring efficiency and
economy in the process.  Except for a few exclusions such as consumer
goods,  luxury and defense  items,  any  imports would be eligib>  for
financing provided they were paid for after January 1, 1986 but not more
than U$20 million would be used for petroleum imports and not more than
US$20 million for food imports. Imports by public agencies exceeding US $1
million would be subject to international competitive bidding. Three price
quotations would be required for purchases under US $1 million.  Impo.ts of
goods procured under contracts costing less than US $10,000 equivalent
would not be financed under the SAC.  Imports by private entities a-- well
as imports of petroleum and food stuffs commonly traded in the
international market would be in accordance with normal commercial
practices, which are acceptable.
107.     To  facilitate  disbursement  and  procurement,  three  special
accounts would be established at the Central Bank on behalf of the
Treasury, one each for the IDA Credit, the AF Credit and the SJF
Contribution. The Senegalese Government would be the borrower. The



- 37 -
Centrdl Bank would be responsible for maintaining the credit accounts.
After credit effectiveness, an initial deposit of US$2.5 million would be
made by IDA and US$11 million by the AF and US$3 million by Switzerland
into the respective special accounts. These accounts would be replenished
regularly and up to the limit of the First Tranche on the basis of fully
documented reimbursement applications for amounts in excess of US$1 million
and on the basis of statements of expenditures under that amount.  The
minimum amount of replenishment applications would be $1 million.  The
Central Bank would indicate on the statements of expenditures the nature
and origin of the goods, as well as the paynent date and would maintain all
relevant supporting documentation (invoices, import certificates and
evidence of payment)  for review by supervision missions.   Expenditures
covered by the IDA credit would be in accordance with normal IDA rules,
while expenditures covered by the AF Credit and the SJF Contribution would
be in accordance with the resolution establishing the AF.
108.      The proceeds of the proposed credits and grant would be disbursed
in two tranches as follows:
a.   a first tranche of US$35 million composed of $7 million from the
IDA credit, $22 million from the AF credit, and the entire $6
million equivalent of the SJF contribution would be available
immediately upon effectiveness of the respective agreements
(expected in March/April 1986);
b.   a second tranche of US$35 million composed of the balance of
funds in the IDA credit and AF credit would be made available in
late 1986 after a review of performance under the program to be
carried out before then, and provided the conditions stimpulated
in paragraph 103 above have been fulfilled.
F. Counterpart Funds
109.      The CFA franc counterpart funds generated by the proposed credits
and grant would be deposited in the above ment-ioned Treasury special
accounts in the Central Bank and would be used to finance operations
designated by the Government in support of its structural adjustment
process and its development policy. The Government has indicated that it
would give priority in the use of the counterpart funds to: (i) financing
the maintenance and rehabilitation of key infrastructure and public
services; and (ii) settlement of Government's net arrears towards
parapublic and private entities in accordance with criteria acceptable to
the Association. Tn addition, the Government would provide the Association
with information on the use of counterpart funds, on a quarterly basis.
G. Benefits and Risks
110.      The proposed structural adjustment program is expected to improve
the growth prospects of the Senegalese economy through increased public
savings, productivity and a higher return on investments, and to reduce the



- 38 -
country's budgetary and balance of payments deficits and external debt
service burden. More specifically, on the production side, the proposed
package of policy measures, together with the expected improvements in the
efficiency of public enterprises and the rationalization of the public
investment program, would help eliminate long-standing distortions in the
economy and provide incentives for the development of local cereals
production and the reorientation of manufacturing away from its current
inward-looking approach of producing primarily for an over- protected
domestic market, and towards exports. Without the proposed reforms, the
public finance and balance of payments deficits are likely to deteriorate
and reach unsustainable levels, bringing about a prospect of a rapidly
expanding debt burden which is unlikely to be serv'-ceable. Finally, there
is the prospect of a significant decline in real per capita incomes
resulting in further hardship for the Senegalese people with a real risk to
the survival of the country's socio-political order.
Ill.      The Senegalese authorities clearly recognize the need for change
and have shown their commitment to the adjustment process by implementing a
long list of actions in the past two years. Nevertheless, in the process
of adjustment, short-term costs are usually felt before most of the
expected long-term benefits become visible.  Therefore, in a democratic
society like Senegal, tha acceptance of sacrifices by the population will
be conditioned by the fairness and efficiency with which the reforms are
perceived to be administered.  In this context, the main risks of the
proposed  operation,  relate  to  the  following  uncertainties:   (i)  the
capacity of Senegal's institutional framework to further prepare the
remaining practical details of the agreed reforms and monitor their
implementation; (ii) the unpredictability of rainfall, external market
conditions and internal market responses, which could delay the realization
of growth targets; and (iii) the Government's ability to withstand the
socio-political pressures that could be generated against some of the
reforms. However, the following considerations make taking these risks
acceptable.
112.      First, with regard to the institutional weakness, the constraints
would be  partly  mitigated  in  the  following ways:   Ci)  the  FAO,  in
cooperation with the Bank and other donors, is assisting the Government in
preparing an action program for domestic cereals production; (ii) the
on-going IDA-financed Second Technical Assistance Project for Economic and
Financial Planning and the Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Project
would help strengthen the Government's ability to carry out and monitor the
adjustments in the areas of public investment programming, parapublic
sector reform, export incentives and effective protection measures, and
debt management; a follow-up IDA technical assistance project for economic
management is under preparation; (iii) in close collaboration with the
Bank, the IMF, the US and France intend to continue to assist the
Government in formulating and implementing appropriate financial policies
and measures; (iv) the proposed IDA energy sector rehabilitation credit to
be presented to the Board in this fiscal year would strengthen the
Government's ability to implement the reforms in the energy sector; and (v)
as described in para 104 above, the proposed monitoring arrangements are



- 39 -
satisfactory and would be reviewed by the Association during the
implementation of the program.
113.      Secondly, as to the climatic/external market risks, while they
could delay the realization of some of the financial and growth targets,
they are unlikely to put in question the policy reform measures unless they
give rise to radical change in the underlying situation. With regard to
internal  market  responses,   the  main  uncertainties  concern  cereal
production. As noted in para.32 above they relate in particular to the
impact of higher rice prices on cereals consumption patterns, the
substitution between coarse grains and other cash crops, and the
technologies for the industrial transformation of coarse grains.  While
these risks are real, they are worth taking since there are no clear
alternatives at this time.
114.      Finally, with regard to the socio-political risks, the aggregate
impact of the adjustment program on income and welfare levels is expected
to be positive. Aggregate employment levels in the economy are expected to
be higher with the adjustment program than in its absence, since: (i) the
reforms will eliminate biases (in agricultural incentives, tariffs, and
labor laws) which have encouraged imports of food and the use of capital
and discouraged local food production and the use of labor; and (ii) a more
efficient  use  of  resources  will  result  in  greater  productivity  of
investment and higher GDP levels than was the case in the past.   In
addition,   the  distributional  impact  of  the  adjustment  program  is
unquestionably in the right direction, with most of the income transfer
going from the urban to the hitherto relatively unprotected and over-taxed
agricultural sector. Furthermore, there are countervailing factors which
would tend to mitigate the negative impact of the program on some social
groups in the short term:   increased producer prices are expected to
alleviate some of the impact of the elimination of input subsidies; and the
establishmert of preferential credit schemes with assistance from the
donors would help the laid off staff of parastatals to engage in
remunerative activities in the private sector. One such scheme has already
been envisaged for the staff of the rural development agencies under the
recent    IDA-supported    Irrigation   Technical    Assistance    Project.
Nevertheless, some social groups will be adversely affected, at least in
the short term.  The urban poor are likely to be most seriously affected by
increased prices for food and energy and an increase in unemployment in the
short run for some inefficient, over-protected industries.  So far, the
Government has been remarkably successful in explaining to the population
the justification for reforms and the need for sacrifice by all groups in
the short term. Finally, the Government appreciates fully that while the
costs of planned adjustment may be high, the alternative of a forced
adjustment brought about by a continuation of past policies would almost
certainly be more costly with greater risks to sociopolitical stability.



- 40 -
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
115.      As of October 31, 1985, the Bank Group had approved 58 operations
in Senegal for a total of US$573.3 million, including 34 IDA Credits, 11
Bank loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, five IFC operations, two
blends of Zank and IFC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds.
Physical execution of projects is progressing reasonably well, although
some operations are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to
the Government's continuing difficult public finance situation. Annex II
contains the Status of World Bank Operations in Senegal.
116.     Until a few years ago, our assistance was mostly project-oriented
with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improveiuent
and expansion of basic infrastructure. The acuity of the financial crisis
of the past several years and the magnitude of the structural distortions
in the economy has led to a major shift in our strategy, which now has the
following main objectives.   First,  to assist the Government,  supported
where appropriate with technical assistance and structural adjustment
lending operations, to improve the production incentive environment and the
efficiency of economic management, and restore in the medium-term a sound
financial basis for development efforts. Second, to promote the long-term
growth and development of the economy by underpinning the structural
adjustment operations through well-prepared investment, rehabilitation and
sectoral adjustment operations within a framework of appropriate sectoral
policies. Third, to improve our knowledge of social, institutional and the
administrative frameworks to better taylor policy reforms to the country's
absorptive capacity. Finally, to contribute to improved aid effectiveness
in Senegal by acting as the focal point for aid coordination between donors
and the Government, and at the same time assisting the latter to strengthen
its own planning and aid coordination ability.
117.     While the proposed structural adjustment operation is conceived
as the first in a series of such operations to promote central incentive
policy changes and improved economic management objectives, over the
medium-term the IDA lending program will also include complementary project
lending and sector operations which will be increasingly policy oriented
and highlighting sectoral strategies, investment programs and institutional
reforms. Finally, as described below, the on-going project portfolio also
supports the development of sound economic growth in the productive sectors
as well as the rehabilitation of infrastructure.
118.      In agriculture,  past operat;ons have aimed at improving the
productivity of traditIonal food and cash crops, supporting diversification
into new crops and regions, and enhancing forestry outputs and agricultural
research.   At  the  core  of  the  Government's  development  strategy  in
agriculture is the promotion of rainfed cereals production and the
exploitation of the irrigated rice farming potential in the Senegal River
Valley. In addition to an Irrigation Technical Assistance Project approved
in October 1985 to help restructure the River Valley Development Agency
(SAED) including preparation of a specific schedule for the latter's
disengagement from production activities, the Fourth Irrigation Project



- 41 -
under preparation would help rehabilitate and expand rice perimeters.
Sector operations are also under preparation in support of inputs and
marketing activities for the development of rainfed food crops.
119.      Diversification of the productive base of the economy has also
been supported by lending to the growing industrial sector through the
Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Industrie et du
Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance company established with Bank
assistance in 1974.  The Bank has also financed the rail infrastructure
component for the ICS phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex and an engineering
credit to promote development of Senegal's phosphate industry. In response
to the effects of the 1979 oil crisis, the Bank has also financed a
petroleum exploration promotion project to assist the Government in its
search for economical new energy resources. An industrial sector operation
is under preparation to underpin the industrial reforms initiated under the
proposed structural adjustment operation. The sector operation would focus
on the elimination of price controls as well as finance the rehabilitation
needs of existing efficient enterprises.
120.      Past projects have strongly supported modernization and expansion
of the country's infrastructure in all modes of transport: highways, rail,
port and airport. Emphasis is now being placed on better utilization and
maintenance of existing facilities.   To this end,  three projects were
approved during FY84: a Fifth Highway Project addresses the Government's
limited capacity to provide funds for road maintenance; the Dakar Container
Port Project includes rehabilitation and maintenance of the Port of Dakar;
and  the  Technical  Assistance  Project   for  Urban  Management   and
Rehabilitation  emphasizes  maintenance  and  rehabilitation  of  urban
infrastructure.
121.      As in infrastructure, the Bank is supporting the rehabilitation,
modernization  and  expansion  of  the  major  public  utilities.    In
telecommunications, preparation is underway on a project which would
restructure  and  reequip  the  sector  entity.   In  electric  power,  an
engineering credit approved in 1980 led to sector reorganization proposals,
and a follow-up sector rehabilitation operation which is under preparation
to support tariff policy reforms and expansion of generating capacity.
Under the joint program with the UNDP, the Bank has also helped identify
the investment priorities and technical assistance requirements of the
energy sector which has led to the preparation of an industrial energy
conservation program. Finally, in the urban water supply and sanitation
sector, an engineering credit, approved in 1979, laid the groundwork for
sector reorganization, supported by the Eleven Centers Water Supply and
Sewerage Project which was approved in March 1985.
122.      While  Bank  strategy has supported  the emphasis  on  financing
productive projects and rehabilitation needs, it also recognizes the need
to support the social sectors, with due consideration to the capacity of
both the Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved.  In
education, past efforts have been directed at primary education and
technical and vocational training to support activities in the productive



- 42 -
sectors.   Another project  is under preparation  in  support of primary
education and policy measures  to reduce costs per pupil.   In health,
efforts have been directed at primary ^are in the rural regions by
strengthening support structures and improvements in quality of health
personnel.
123.      As  it became  increasingly clear that the weak institutional
framework was an important constraint to project implementation and
macroeconomic policy management, the Rank's program began to shift in the
late 1970s towards multi-sectoral technical assistance. Two operations in
support of this latter effort are currently being implemented:  in the
parapublic sector, a second technical assistance project is helping to
begin rehabilitation of some key public enterprises through detailed action
plans; and a Technical Assistance project for economic and financial
planning is helping reform the investment programming process and
strengthen  debt  management  capability.   Follow-up  projects  are  under
preparation to consolidate progress made in strengthening the institutional
framework.
124.      Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on
high-priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs and recurrent costs,
improved donor coordination is now assuming increased importance. In this
connection, the Bank convenrd a first meeting of the Consultative Group in
December 1984 at which agreement was reached on the policy framewTork for
structural adjuscment, the orientation of sector strategies and investment
program, and aid coordination mechanisms needed to enable Senegal to
overcome its economic and financial difficulties and mobilize donor
assistance for the priority investments.  The Bank followed up on this
meeting  by   organizing   sector  meetings   of   interested  donors  on
telecommunications  and  energy  which  agreed  on  policy  reforms  and
medium-term sectoral investment  programs.   Further sector meetings are
planned  during  1986  for  the  agriculture,  industry,  and water  supply
sectors. A second CG meeting is also planned for 1986 to consider the
Government's first three-yea-r investment program, which will be a product
of the new investment programming and budgeting system supported under the
proposed structural adjustment operation.
125.      The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1980-84 averaged approximately 20%, of which roughly
two-thirds  was  IDA-financed.   The  Bank  Group's  share  in  outstanding
disbursed debt was 18% at end-1984. The Bank Group's share in external
debt service is estimated to have risen from 3.7% in 1980 to about 7.5% in
1985.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
126.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 43 -
127.      I am also satisfied that the proposed African Facility Credit
would comply with Resolution No. IDA 85-1 adopted on May 21, 1985 by the
Executive Directors of the Association.
128.      I am also satisfied that the proposed Special Joint Financing
Administration Agreement for the non-reimbursable contribution from
Switzerland would comply with the agreement between the Government of
Switzerland and the Association for cooperation in the Cofinancing of
Programs of the Special Facility for Sub-Sahara Africa dated September 11,
1985.
129.      T recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Devolopment Credit and the proposed African Facility Credit and that the
Association would act as Administrator of the proposed Special Joint
Financing non-reimbursable contribution from Switzerland.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 10, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 44 -
Annex I
Page  1 of 6
r"W DM - SUFL
AM!A                                         _EA                      DEoNrr  (1983)
Total            196,200 aq. Ia           6.4 1JIX  (=Ld-M9W)             31.7 pw  eq. In
AgFicatural      109.3  sq. Ka            Rate Of 1        2.5ae a2  Oulud 2.91c peM sq. bk
hp1ozLtz~al  19,30) eq. Ku(1990  190)                                       m
M1PLA        CEMACM2I   (1961)                            EM   (197
Cub lrth stP o   er 1,000)            46.1              Th9muetim per i*weIcM                  33,70
CCD6d OM L) PAaV    =.5                                                biW l ba                   9
Ax of 14 Cu, 4a4                                               MIt  R        (pwe l L)            140
1 Ptq            D            >r(34.4
Dim  DI51!U      I (1960)                                     =       F r LW   0IP
Z of Netimul T-                                         NMe available
Ut   t Qaintia p62.5
; 1D Wet (vm1 s           X                 o3.2
AQ        1D PI) WM~ (192                               AaS TO ELmIal     (198W
O'   18t 3wj                    63.0                   -aEa                            (nlIable)
Nx     4 (1981s31m  Ef  (L90¢
Ca3mi 4nte- as % of Immdrws           99.0              Adat                                    10.0
Per Ca2- Protin Inom(5 /day)    70.0                    PrySdm Lll =1                           48.0
GNFPPICAMffIn 19W. a/: LSS3bD
XS NATIOL F =  2196                                 hJL RAM or 0IwU  (2, CCmeme Pde)
us  son         2          1960-70   19'-       197540   1980-a
ClP at       l Prima        2159.0        100.0          2.5        1.9       0.6        2.3
zme D cc  T.uvesm_    t      301.8         14.0          1.4        3.0      -Z.4       -0.4
Gru Na1lfSavk               -110.1         -5.1          2.1        3.1     -31.7       47.6
CUrin   =     SRIMe         -411.9        -W9.1
P a- lr   of Goode. MS  806.0       37.3          0.1       1:0       -4:9       00
impwm of Gooe. NFS         11084.2         50.2          0.2        1.       -0.2      -1.6
C'=, ElMW     AMl) EMv rn  Il 1983
VaI  Adde                  Labor Foce                V.A. Per W
MSS Mb.           Z        M114n            z            us             .0
537.1          21.7          1.9         77.0            287          28.0
Eoilfint                   596.7          24.1          0.2          10.0           2456        241.0
servicas                     1362.2          54.2          0.3          13.0          4Z0          414.0
Total                    2476.0          1MO.0          2.4        100.0           1017        100.0
a~r Enu
80/81       81V82       82/83       83!3S         84/85
I'hpsFm1azie                  46          46          43           .8           49               8.2
ammodituxaIi s           37           35          31          33           30               1.6
Ixitetat a psbllc dt           7          10          31           18           20              38.4
Trae.ry ~.ta   , nia          10           9           13           1            1             -41.4
Current     aiuzes         100          100         10D         100          100
(CE#F b)cs
Qzrett~et41rue          i    i169        182          216         307          219               6.7
EuimS 6 ~ts                  126         L52          177         196          211              13.8
Sec bxlge..ery  vinm         -43         -30          -39         -11            8
Devek~e ~Iit~m                38          31           39          40           35
GO  ( ¢zrmnt Ca  ba)         649         757         892          978        1,076              13.5
WIntion. a; na.)
(CP detdatcr)          9.5         8.8          9.2        10.7         11.1              10.0
a/  Per cmdta CUp etizue c1a         bytshe by dse  covsim  tetiq  as the
World amk Atlas. 1984-85 e
All. oad= caversim  to dollars In tds tabla ae ar    avetap eian
..t7V OfIi&wiidg the period coveLee



- 45 -
Annex I
COMM  DATA - SBEGAL                      Page  2 of 6
,W, C=  AND PRI              1982        1983          1984            1985            1986
(CFA Bln  gatzWM  and peiod)
Simoly
(eaid Jr) a/              238.1       266.8          276.6           284.7          30D.4
Bdk Crudi to (-
(rut)                      70.2       90.4           120.9           126.3           149.8
Bo  Crdit to P dvat
Seetr                     328.3       377.6          369.2           377.1           399.6
(Pa%rtic g  or lad= 5mie)
Maiy an Z of GDP            28.2         28.4           27.2            25.1            22.3
Gensal Pric  Indm
(1979- 100)                138.9       151.1          165.9           179.3           197.0
ka3  Pertg  aus m
GCom  Pwa                   10.2          8.8            9.7             8.2            10.0
Bak Crml co
Go _ermc (nec)            134.8         28.8           33.7             4.5            18.6
Bak CzoI± co
Pr±VA SWt                  11.5         15.0           -2.:             2.L             6.0
MM=Z OF PAVE3S                                                   15COISE MM=  (AVEUiGE 1983-5)
L981    1982       1983    1984
- .111x                                             (MS tm)    z
Pet lai rocts  b/              297       251   2t 3        240                t       :       L15      21.1
Pecrwlin 1rcs  c/              141       139       107     105  FR: azl fiupdf  zz pns        112      20.5
P  r C f Gode NS                32       91                          aum                      61       11.2
E.    NES      E32       9'8       849     806  Pwzlamu Pxdcts :14                     19.0
Imorts of Gxd.. lES           1335      IZ75     11J2    L084  Fertilim                       30        5.5
R       G ap                  -503      -356     -323    -278  SaLt                           11        2.0
Gott=                        1.7       3.1
Iurer~ Pgyms (uec)              67       62        97      142  Other                         83       152
0tI.Fxr Pa3 tso (n)             27        24        24      23  'AP, r                         13 Z      .4
Nec Trams  t±vawe               31        30       29       31                               -
BaLmm  c Ormnt Acot    -566            -414      -415    -412  Toal546                                1.0
mMAL DM AS OF m    31, 1984
Pr±vaze Capitl                  66       44        51       91
i G s                122       107      113      L29
D    _ Das                   164       228      243       19  Pbl1c Dt, Ina.  _ d                  1546.1
;,oftUicla 149                           9        17      35       G          Priva Debc              8.7
Deb Rliaf                     54        78       75       83  Tocal Oxstzdg ma D 5&S.sd            1
g                            169       297      301      257
Oti CeLol Crie) d/              44     -159      -132    -101  NErD         9    tlD for 1984
Overall  w1mee                -165     -125        82      -36  ±¶mJJ L      Ic   .     "M             10.8
S     _~~~' Prvat "Dbtm             0.6
Net form1p asets
(end yew)                  -65       -467      -503  -425
13)IEDAm LEIfl(D. 31. 1.984) Of1l.aws US S)
!wd DlnburDsbd      W     198T
_uaid                          25.7  L23.4
OF ENNGE                                                   Ckztsrthg Indn. Umf&mW  116.6 322.1
krm1 Averagi                                Had Period
1981           1982          1983          1984                 Jim  1985
USS LOO - CEF                 Z71.7          328.6         381.1          437.0                467.0
1W  1.00 - USS                 3.68          3.04           2.62           2.29                 2.14
b/ ais ir
cl Deb Serwice, net of trAnt accrued a  foreiW  esbwm rer'  as a per ageof   r    of Gods awl
Nce-fctor Se      ; afcer  -esding.
d/ TrIl    erlors and czissi  .



- 46-                            Annex I
TABLE C3                                Page  3 of 6
SENEGAL               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGTE  AVERAGES) /a
HOST                    (OST RECENT ESTIATE) lb
ECeNT           NIDDOLE L0m!           MIDDLE IN-COW
1960/b     lS7tk ESYIN,A.TIb     AFRICA S. OF SARA    N. ARICA & MID EAST
A- (T-OISA  SQ. Xl)
TOTAL                             196.2      196.2      196.2
AGRICULTURAAL                     99.6       104.5      109.3
CIW iF   cairu  CUB)                  .11        .1       440.0             1063.6                  1134.9
_;nr cONOU  FM CAPIT
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)    381.0      360.0       206.0            581.5                    623.9
POPULATION. lD-YCAR (THOUSANDS)   3498.0   4415.0      6211.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OP TOTAL)     23.0       30.0        34.4             32.0                     49.0
POPULATION PRJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                         10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION CHILL)                           30.0
POPULATION MIENTUM                                      1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                     17.8       22.5        31.7             65.1                     37.8
PER SQ. KH. ACtI. LAND          35.1       42.2        55.2             124.8                   470.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (1)
0-14 IRS                       42.7        43.9       44.4              45.6                    43.5
15-64 YRS                       54.2       53.1       52.6              51.5                     53.0
65 AND ABOVE                     3.0        2.8         2.8               2.7                     3.3
POPULATION GROVrH RATE (S)
TOTAL                            2.8        2.3         2.6               2.9                     2.8
URBAN                            3.4         5.0        3.7               5.1                     4.4
CRUDE BiRTH RATE (PER THOUS)      47.5       46.7       46.1              47.0                     40.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)      24.4       21.9        18.5             15.0                     11.5
cROSS REPRODUCrION RATE            3.1        3.1         3.2              3.2                      2.8
FAMILY PUNNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TROS)
USERS C: OF MARRIED WMEN)        ..         ..          4.0 /I           6.4                     21.4
FOOD am mnia
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. IPER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                    125.0       83.0       64.0              82.9                     95.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)    99.0       93.0        99.0             98.5                    118.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)        67.0       62.0        70.0              55.4                    77.8
OF WHICH ANIIAL AND PULSE      20.0        19.0       19.0 /d           16.5                    17.8
WHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       45.9       38.1        28.0              16.6                    12.8
SLTI
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRH7 (YEARS)     39.4       42.4       45.5              52.0                     57.6
INFANT HUORT. RATE (PER TWOUS)   178.5      164.0       140.0            106.8                     96.8
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (POP)
TOTAL                                        * .2. /a                    42.4                    67.2
URBAN                            ..         ..         77.0 7T           67.5                    93.4
RURAL                            ..          ..        25.07            35.6                     45.8
ACCESS TO EIERETA DISPOSAL
tS OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            ..         ..         33.0 /c           28.9                    45.9
URBAN                            ..         ..        100.0 7            57.7                    63.0
RUJRAL                           ..         ..          2.0 7;           20.7                    28.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       24990.0    16790.0    13780.0 Ic         11791.7                  4331.0
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON         3150.0 If  1950.0      1390.0 7T        2459.8                   1845.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          640.0       820.0      900.0 /d          981.1                   621.8
URBAN                          460.0 a    450.0       560.07;i          368.8                   545.0
RURAL                          1990.0 a   1250.0     1280.0 T          4371.9                  2511.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED        ..        22.2       29.2 Id           27.2                     25.7
AVERSGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            ..         ..
URAN                             ..         7.6 /h
RURAL                             -         6.o T7i
AVERSrE NO. OF PERSONSIROOH
TOTAL                            1.5 1       ...
URBAN                                -
RURAL                            ..         ..
PERCENTAcE OF WELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                            ..         ..
URBAN                             .
RURAL                            ..          ..



- 47 -                                           Annex I
T A O L C  3A                            Page  4  of  6
SECNEAL                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA BRIE?
SCNCAL                               RasnRCuma cOUPS (WEIGCE  AVERAGES) t
NOB?                      (NOB? RECENT EITIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOOK
196           97Es srTM             AFrICA S. oF SARARA   N. AMRICA & MID EAST
maOcanon
ADJUSTED  NMOLUMn RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    27.0        38.0        48.0               95.7                      £9.8
MALE                    36.0        47.0        58.0              100.0                     103.7
FRULE                   17.0        30.0        38.0               83.2                      75.2
SECDNDAtY: TOTAL                    3.0         9.0        12.0               17.3                      42.9
KALe                     4.0        13.0        16.0               25.0                      50.9
FEMALE                   2.0         5.0         8.0               14.8                      34.6
VOCATIONAL cz OF SECONDARY)          23.1         9.2        10.4                5.9                       10.0
PUPIL-TEACER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0 Ls     45.0        43.0               41.1                      29.7
SECONDARY                          34.0        34.0        21.0               25.5                       18.8
Consrno
PASSENCGR CARS/THOUSAND POP           5.7         8.7         ..                20.8                       17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/TEOUSAND POP         35.7        60.7        61.3              107.8                      175.9
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..          0.3         0.8               20.8                      51.2
NEUSPAPER ("DAXLY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              5.7         4.5         7.5               18.4                      37.2
CINMA ANNUAL ATTEDANCE/CAPITA         ..      * .             0.7 Li             0.4                       2.4
UA YM
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THUDS)          1619.0      192S.0      2509.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   39.5        39.0        37.9               36.2                      11.0
ARIICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.0        80.0        76.9 /a            54.5                      42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.0         7.0        10.0 7e            18.3                      27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              46.3        43.6        40.4               36.8                      26.2
MALE                               56.3        53.7        50.7               47.1                      46.2
FEMALE                             36.4        33.7        30.6               27.2                       5.8
ECONMC DEPENDENCr RATIO               1.0         1.1         1.2                 1.3                       1.8
DISUTS_
PERcNT OF PRIVATE INME1
RCCIVERD 1Y
HIGES  5E OF  OU1E0LDS             36.8 /it
HRICEST 202 OF ROUSEROLDS          62.5 7       ..
LOICST 205 OF NOUSIEOLDS           3.2 W.
LOST 4o OF HOUSHOLDS                9.4 T.
Vm T  CRS
ESTIMATED A         POVRTCD11
LEVEL (C   PER CAPITA)
IREAm                               ..          ..          ..               590.7                     226.3
RURAL                               ..          ..          2.O /c           275.3                     134.0
CSTI1AD RELATIVE POVERaT INCM
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        194.0 /c           545.6                     431.5
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..               201.1                     326.0
ESTIMUD POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LNEVL (Z)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                 ..                       29.0
NOT AVAYIULAB
NOT APPLICADLE
NOT E S
/s   The grasp averages for each indlctor are populstiLnetgted aritbnetic ma_ . Coerage of countrie.
among the Indicator depends -n availability of data and  a not uniform.
/b   Ucl. otherwier noted, "Data. for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betwen
1969 and 1971; end data for "Moet beast Eatite" between 1981 and 1983.
/c   1978;  /d 1977;  /a 1980; /f 1963; jt 1962; Jh 1973; a  1955; a  1976; /1 Population.
/1 not available according to new Bank Atlas methodology
UN, 1985



-48-                                  Annex I
Page 5 of 6
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes Althoughthedataaredrawnfromsourasgenerally judgedthemastauthoritativeandrelible it souldal obenotedthattheymaynotbeinternatiomnlly
comparable because of the lack of standardized definitions nd concepts used by different countries in collecting the data. The data are, nonetheless, useful to
desribe orders of mnaitude. indicate trends, and chacterize certain major differences between countries.
The reference groups are II) the same country group of tbe subjet country and 2) a country group with somewhat higher average incomc than the country
group of the subjet country (except for-High lncomrOil Exhponrr group whcre -Middle Income Nonh Africa and Middle Eat- is ccosen because of stronger
socso-cultural affinities). In the refeence group data the veragp are population weighted arithmetic means for each indicator and shown only when nmjority
of the countries in a group has data for that indicator. Sne the coveae al countries among the indicators depends on the availability ordata and is not uniform.
caution must be exercisd in relating averages of one indicator to another These avergs ar only useful in compaiung the value ofoot indicator at a time among
the country and ference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crdel Rth Rate (perzkhosaad)-Numberof live births in the year
Ted-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crude Death Rate (per thouand)l-N rumber of deaths in the year
Agriclural--Estimate of agricultural arca used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanenndy for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Repredwerion Rae-Averagc number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-&NP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pnces. calculated by same conversion method as World     Faw4. Peaiankg-Acceprors. Animal (thonsand)--Annual num-
Rank Atalas (198 1-83 basis): 1983 data.                        ber of acceptors of birth-control devicet under auspices ornational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Fai  Pilanun o-User (percem ofmrred mnren)-The prcen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothernal ekc-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      or child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549, although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total Popdatie. Mid-Year (thousands)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Rttasf ofFoodPoction Per Capita (1969-71 = 100)-Index of per
....so(deni        tio  of urban at  tomar           capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different efinties of    1970 and may  ata.         excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Population Projection                                           which are edibie and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popultion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded): they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabks, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights. 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             Per Capita Sippy of Calories (pert ofrequiremnts)-Comput-
Stauionarr population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmentl temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentwn-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capita Supply of Protein (gram per duy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year a. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popation Density                                                average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.ka.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total aream 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capta erein Supply From Animal and Prise-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams perday: 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Papsalion Age Stactwr (percent )-Children (0-14 years). work-   Cid (ages 1-4j Deat Rate (per thousand)-- Number ordeaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (perceuf--oroal-Annual growth irates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Population Gowtk Rate (percena)-urhan-Annual growth rates       Lafe Erpectancy at Math (years)-Nlumber of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all peopk



- 49                     ~~~~Annex  I
Page6of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pkplteacher Ratio - primary. and secondary-Total students en.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Infar Mortai Rate (pr tkuamd)-Num ber of infants who die      teachcrs in the corresponding levds.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Access so Safe Wter (percwot fpap tldonJ-tetal, wbri, and    Psae4gr Cus (opr thonsand ppoplatiouj-Passenger cars com-
4wa-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eighl persons; excludes anbul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  anccs, hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  R    R rs (per t ls paaJ-All types of rceivers
borehoks, sprinp and sanitary wefs) a pectages of thdr resp   for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 2DD neters from a house may be considered  registration of radio set was in effect; data for rcent years way
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rura areas  not be comparadb since most iountries aboltiaed lrcensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselbold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TIRecevrm (per thud   u    -TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                         to geral public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
Accss to Exrete Disposid (pertew of pepHAwi0n)--rotori  W*,l  receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
and rnrl-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  i
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  ' Apwse Cwcnlai,o (per tdosandpopuatn)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily geneal interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment, of human ecreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publcation devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily" if it appears at least four tines a week.
Popation per Physiiap-Population divided by number of prac-   Cima Annl Attendanc  per Caia per Yer-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university leve.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Poplation per NVrsing P osen-Pbpulation divided by number of  drive-in cinetas and mobile units.
practicing male and fernale graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
Poplti. per Hospata  ed-to1l uban and rwald- opulation        Totsa Labor Force (thossands)-Economically active persons. in-
(total. urban. and rural) divided by their eqsctive number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but exduding housewives.
hospital beds avaikblebin public and private, gmnral andspellit students. et.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitalbs an  rbabietation canters. Hospitals ari estabEshrnts  varous countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at kast one physician. Establishments prov-  Fema  (percemt)-Fenale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally cusodial care are not induded. Rural hospitls  force.
however, include health an medical centers not permanently staffed  Agvicswre (percent)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of totd labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a linited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                        Indstay (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction, manu-
Admissos per Hspitaf Red-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and deectrity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P-ation Rate (percet)-sotaL     e adjeia-Partcpatior
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total male. and female labor force
Aerag Sze of HousehoU (peus per koaehs ldj-toai, m'a,         as percentages of totaL male and femak population of all ages
?anwl-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on LOas
lving quarters and their main mcals. A boarder or lodger may or  particirp.tion rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estinates are from national sour.
Avere Nunber of Persons per ARem-toeala, urhan. and rur-      Economi  epdencwy Araio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUllON
Percentage of Dweligs with Elctrielty-teral, arba, and rural-  Prcentage of Total Disposb  Income (bth i cask and kid)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Acaruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total hous-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Ajued Eamolent Ratios                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prima  whool - *iod. male an fmk-Gross total, nale            levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolmnent of all ages at the primary levd as percentages of  EmatedAbsolte Poerty lnome Level (USS per captira)-rban
respective primary school-age populations. WAile many countries  ad rwra-Absolute poverty incomne level is that income level
consider prnmary school age to be 6-I 1 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionaEly adequate diet plus essential
diflerences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimted Rdeative Pbvery Income Lewd (S per capita)-aan
education, gross enrolgment may exeed 100 percent since some  and raral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age.                                                          detived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconday school - total. male andfenae-Computed as above.    living in urban arcas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimed Populaton Beow Absolite Povwy lncome Levd (per-
mary instructon; provides general. vocational or teacher training  cent)-urban ad rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of ag; correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocarional Eirollmeni (percent of seconday -Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technial, industriaL or other programs which operate    Economn-ic Analysis and Projections Department
independenty or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 50 -                             AN3EXII
Page 1 of 2
SAT  OF WOERD BANK OPEATI     IN S&WAL
A. Statun!nt of Bark Ionsr ari IDA Credits (as of Septeiber 30, 1985) *
A=XICt tlqRIessat
lean/Credit                                                          h     ui   e  cncfat
Number       Year  'Borrwr    Puxpose                               lBankl     ID 2/ UIsbumdi 2/
Ahirteen loansI/ and tweIt Credits fully disbursed                 71.97    r33.24
1412-T-SE    1977   Se           Petite (ste Touism                 8.0                    1.11
1413-E       1977   Senegal      Petite C5te Tourism                5.6                   0.91
1518-SE      1978   RCS          Railways III                      11.0                   0.43
775-SE       1978   SDn-l Dbimsar Irrigatio                                   20.0         1.18
908-SE       1979   Senegal      Educatin III                                  2.0         8.52
991-SE       1980   Senegal      SmlL Rural Operations                        11.0         5.03
993-SE       1980   Senegal      Fourth Higluay                               28.0         0.01
1810-SE      1980   Senegal      Fourih HiRuzaI                    10.0                  10.00
S-26-SE      1980   Senel        Power FegR.& T.AL                             3.3         0.66
1061-SE      1980   sene2el      T.A. for Plnmning                             5.3        1.59
1973-SE      1981   SOFISEDII  Investz.nt PromOtion                 6.5                   4.04
1136-SE      1981   Senegal      Investm-at PrcMDtion                          2.5        1.26
2025-SE      1981   SEFICS       Rail Trnsport                      19.3                   6.37
1103-SE      1981   Se           FO                                            9.3        6.31
1176-SE      1982   Senegal      Agricultural Research                        19.5        12.77
1310-SE      1983   SenegaL      Rural Health                                 15.0        10.01
1323-SE      1983   SenegaL      PetroleUm EXP1ratiO                           9.5        5.17
1360-SE      1983   Seg          Pb. Iaod. Dev                                 7.7        7.14
1398-SE      1983   SenSLe md TLa'                                            11.0        8.83
1406-SE      1983   Senegal      E.S. Rural DeV.                              16.1       14.94
1448-SE      1984   S            Fifth M=                                     10.75       7.31
SF-15-SE     1984   Senegal      Fifth                                        10.75       8.85
1458-SE      1984   Senegal      T.A. for Urbain       Re & Rebab.             3.05       2.29
SF-13-SE     1984   Senegal      T.A. for Urban nt & RSebab.                   2.95       2.83
1459-SE      1984   Seaegal      Dkar Container   t                            2.65       2.23
SIF-14-SE    1984   Senegal      Dacar Ccontainer Port                         4.85       4.98
1554-SE      1985   Senegal      Eleven Centers Water Supply                  24.00      24.02
Total                                                      132.37    372.44      158.79
of uhkich repaid                                          24.61      6.20
Total nwi outstanding                                      107.76    366.24
mBD     IDA
Amount sold                        3-.4    1
of£ hich has been repa           3.24    1.17             0.19       0.05
Total nOW  eld by Bank and IDA 31                          107.57    366.19
Total undisbxrsed                                           22.86    135.93      L58.79
1/ A lna of US$3.5 mUliUn for agricultrwal credit (584-SE) made in 1969 ags cancelled o
-MarcNh 25, 1971.
2/   RiLwith Credit 1061-SE, credits have been         o        in Special Drauig Rights (SIR). The
do    amounts in these columns repr t the dollar equivaleqts at the tine of credit nepatios
for the IDAM  auts and the llS$ eqcivadlts as of Septiber 30, 1985, for the =1sbrsed-am wmts
(1 SDtB = S$1.05940).
31 Prio to embange adjustueots.
*  The status of the projects isted In Part A is descrbe  in a separate report on all BanIDA
finanial projects in e eutin, which is updated twie yearly and circulated to the  Ecmtive
Directors an ApLil 30 and October 31.



- 51 -                            AM= TI
rqp z ot 2
B. Statemt of 1R Invm=t (as Of S            ber 30, 1985.
FEscl Year   ,     lTe of as1ness                                   LOi       Invesbmit        Total
1967          S(xci6tf1iIr tlUe          FertiUzr Plait          2.45         1.01            3.46
d lls dau Sfa
1972
1973)         BUD S&a*ga, S.A.           Vegetable 3cport         -           0.84            0.84
1974                                      eeFIS)l  lnpiint       -            0.24           0.24
Firnce Cmpy
1980            wxd       i               1mand Capital          -            0.47           0.47
1980          Socid" W1tli*de            Twui                    3.00          -             3.00
du Bawahos, S.A.
1982          ID&h,trl  (2ildques        Fertilze               25.00                       25.OD
du S&ingl
Ttal Grms n   u ta                               30.45          2.56          33.01
t, Cantiwo, Tezdu6tims,
Raipayits, Sals aid T                             2.62          1.05           3.67
Total Cudfhwuts na held by DC                    27.83          1.51          29.34
Uzdisuarsd Bel                                   24.00          0.00          24.00



- 52 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTNENT OPERATION
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENDTS
(i)       Time taken to prepare the program:  si:. months
(ii)      Initial discussions with IDA:        February 1985
(iii)     Preparation mission:                 April-May 1985
(iv)      Appraisal missions:                  September and November 1985
(v)       Negotiations:                        December 1985
(vi)      Planned date of effectiveness        March/April 1986
SECTION II: SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTION
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF THE CREDITS
Disbursement of the second tranche (US$35 million) of the
proposed credits would be contingent on the Government making significant
and satisfactory progress in implementing the structural adjustment
program, notably in completing the following specific actions in a manner
satisfactory to IDA:
a.   agreement with the Association on a satisfactory action program
for the development of domestic cereals production (para.29)?
b.   adoption of a new draft tariff code satisfactory t. the
Association and consistent with the new Industrial Policy
(para.42);
c.   revision of the export subsidy scheme to an industrial velue
added basis (para.42);
d.   satisfactory review by the Association of the first three-year
(1987/88-89/90) public investment program (para.51); and
e.   effective separation of the rice operation from the CPSP and
priviatization of importing and internal marketing of rice
consistent with the principles outlined in the Letter of
Development Policy (paras.71-72).



- 53 -
Annex IV
Page 1
(Translation from Original French)
Dakar, December 19, 1985
Mr. A. W. Clausen, President
International Development Association
Washington, D. C. 20433
Dear Mr. President,
I have the honour to submit to you herewith the Letter of Development
Policy which has been approved by the Government of Senegal. This Letter describes
the main features of the Structural Adjustment Program implemented by the Government
since the first meeting of the Consultative Group for Senegal which was held in Paris
in December 1984 under the World Bank's Chairmanship.
This program formalizes and strengthens the various adjustment policies
which, as you know, the Government has pursued in recent years in order to address
the imediate crisis and the structural and institutional constraints which beset
Senegal's economy. These policies have received active support by aid donors, both
bilateral and multilateral, including in particular a series of standby arrangements
concluded with the IMF, of which the most recent covers the period January 1985 -
June 1986.
It is in support of this program, representing an important pbase of the
Medium-and Long-term Adjustment Program (PAML) endorsed by the Consultative Group,
that the Government of Senegal submits its formal request to IDA for a second
structural adjustment credit in an amount of US$70 million, including a grant of
US$6 million by Switzerland and a US$44 million credit from the Special African
Facility.
The Senegal Government not only is convinced that it must undertake the
reforms needed to rebuild the bases for growth and for sustained and balanced
economic development, but is also firmly committed to implementing its medium- and
long-term adjustment program until these objectives are attained. The Government is
encouraged by the willingness which has been expressed by the international community
to provide substantial support for the efforts being made by Senegal.
We reiterate that, in the framework of the permanent consultation with its
partners and in particular with IDA, the Government is willing to consult with the
Association in order to identify, if the need arises, any supplementary measures
needed to ensure the realization of its policy objectives.
More generally, the Government desires to maintain a very close contact
with the authorities of the Association in order to ensure an effective monitoring of
its adjustment program.
Yours sincerely,
(signed)
Cheikh Hamidou Kane
Minister for Pl- ming & Cooperation



- 54 -                ANNEX IV
Page 2
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
December 19, 1985
INTRODUCTION
At the first meeting of the Consultative Group for Senegal, held in
Paris in December 1984, the Government of the Republic of Senegal made a
General Policy Declaration (Declaration de Politique Generale;  DPG) that set
forth the Medium- and Long-Term Adjustment Program (Programme d'Ajustement
Economique et Financier a Moyen et Long Termes: PAHL) it intends to implement
in the period 1985-1992.
This program expresses the determination of the Government to both
continue and strengthen the adjustment policies adopted as part of the 1979
Stabilization Program and the Economic and Financial Recovery Plan for
1980-1985 (Plan de Redressement Economique et Financer: PREF).
The measures adopted in this context and aimed at stabilizing the
financial situation of the country have undoubtedly had a considerable impact;
nevertheless, the need to strengthen the adjustment so that the persistent
structural causes of the crisis can be tackled has rapidly become apparent.
Those causes are:
- the fluctuations in economic growth;
- the relative inefficiency of investments;
- the important and predominant place of the public and the parapublic
sector in the economy;
- the excessive expansion of domestic demand resulting in substantial
financial deficits, both domestic (public finances) and external
(balance of payments).
This situation, while highlighting the inadequacies of the policies
adopted earlier, given the size of the imbalances, has revealed the structural
and  institutional  rigidities  that  affect  the  Senegalese  economy  and
made it essential to pursue a firm adjustment policy, which is all the more
necessary in view of the unfavorable international economic situation.
The Government expressed to the Consultative Group its determination
to carry out in full all the policies envisaged in the program and to imple-
ment the necessary institutional and structural reforms.
It has noted the willingness of donors to support the program,
specifically through appropriate financial contributions estimated at about
US$500 million annually.



55 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 3
I.   THE MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(1) The Stabilization Phase (1979-1984)
As noted earlier, the adjustment policy of Senegal has been well
under way since the end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s as a
result of the implementation of the 1979 Stabilization Plan and the PREF
(1980-1985).
These two programs, which were basically aimed at rehabilitating the
financial situation, assigned considerable weight to stabilization policies,
even if they included certain structural change objectives.
For the execution of its program, Senegal has received very effec-
tive support from the international community. In this context, it concluded
its first agreement with the IMF under the Extended Fund Facility and received
a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit from the World Bank/IDA.   In the same
period, the Government also concluded a stand-by arrangement with the IMF, and
has received substantial financial aid from Arab donors in particular. It has
also benefited from the rescheduling of its external debt through the Paris
Club and the London Club.
It should also be noted that the Government pursued a firm price
adjustment policy during this period, which from 1980 to 1983 resulted in
increases of 22.7% in the price of groundnut oil, 15.6% in the price of sugar,
and 56.7% in that of bread. The price of rice was raised on two occasions by
31.3% and by 23.8% in 1982 and 1983, respectively.
However, this firm policy of demand management failed to prevent the
deterioration of the Government's financial situation. whose deficit as a
proportion of GDP rose from 3.0% in 1978/79 to 7Z in 1982/83 before being
reduced to 4.3% in 1983/84.
Concurrently, the external deficit as a proportion of GDP after
having declined from 15.1% and 17.7Z in 1980 and 1981, respectively to 9.1% in
1979 rose to 11.9% in 1983.
Consequently, it has become urgent to continue the adjustment effort
as part of a medium-term program that will make it possible to achieve the
structural reforms now required.
(2) The Medium- and Long-Term Adjustment Program (1985-1992)
The distinguishing feature of economic policy during the program
period will be the assignment of top priority to the implementation of struc-
tural reforms while preserving and stiengthening the gains made in the area of
financial stabilization.
To do so, the authorities have established five objectives for the
Adjustment Program. They are:
(a) Consolidation of the bases of economic growth through the redefini-
tion of appropriate sectoral strategies and the provision of



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
appropriate incentives for promoting the revival of private
investment.   In this context,  the authorities have specifically
designed a new agricultural policy (Nouvelle Politique Agricole:
NPA) and prepared a balanced package of incentives for industrial
production.
(b) Improvement of the efficiency of investments bLcause of the need to
increase the marginal productivity of capital and thus to achieve a
growth rate of 3.2% despite the fact that the investment rate will
be kept at the level of only 14% of GDP. For that purpose, private
investment will be encouraged and public investment will be further
channeled to the productive sectors.
(c) Easing of the structural constraints that impose a heavy burden on
the economy of Senegal by rescaling the public and parapublic sector
and improving its management.
(d) Safeguarding of the long-term Lases of growth through a redefinition
of the strategy for social services (education, health, etc.).
Ce)  Simultaneous efforts  o -eptore the soundness of Senegal's public
finances and external position.
To achieve these objectives, the Government prepared and submitted
to the Consultative Group an Action Plan enumerating the types of measures to
be implemented including an indicative execution schedule.
This Action Plan is completed and updated each quarter at the
meeting of the committee established in early :985 for monitoring the execu-
tion of the PAML, which is chaired by the President of the Republic himself.
By the end of the execution period of the PAML, Senegal will have
restored the conditions for sound and balanced growth, which will make it
possible to generate sufficient national savings for financing investments
without excessive recourse to external sources.
More specifically, the overall balance of government operations will
be in surplus beginning in 1991/92, when the current external deficit will not
exceed 2.8% of GDP as against 10.2% in 1984.
The Structural Adjustment Credit the Government is requesting fro.
the World Bank Group in support of the first phase of its program of reforms
should be viewed in the overall context of the execution of this program.



- 57 -                ANNEX IV
Page 5
II. FIRST PHASE OF THE PANL(1985-1987)
The first phase of the PAML in the period 1985-87 has two major
focuses:
o    Production incentives; and
o    Reorganization of the public sector and improvement of its manage-
ment.
It is important to note that production incentives have become
essential given, on the one hand, the constraints on the country's economy
and, on the other, the limits of a policy based solely on demand management.
The anticipated 3.2% average annual growth under the PAML can be achieved only
if a revitalized private sector fully plays its part in a renewed economic
environment. To that end, the authorities have designed a system of effective
incentives for both the rural sector and the industrial sector.
In this regard, it is important to restore an institutional frame-
work that provides incentives for the expansion of investments and production.
It is in that perspective that the Government has designed a new agricultural
policy intended to promote food self-sufficiency while consolidating the gains
made in industrial crops. The assignment of greater responsibility to produc-
ers and the withdrawal of the State from production and marketing operations
are, together with an appropriate pricing policy, the essential instruments of
this new policy.
Concurrently wiz  this new agricultural policy, the Government has
begun to implement a new industrial strategy.
Senegalese industry, one of the sectors most affected by the reduc-
tion in private investment since the end of 1970s, has high production costs
(linked to inappropriate tariff protection) that limit its competitiveness
both in the local market and in the export market. This situation is exacer-
bated by administrative red tape and by the obsolescence and inadequacy of
much of its productive apparatus.
The Government has therefore launched a program of vigorous reforms
of the protection system as well as the reorganization and modernization of
the productive apparatus; this is because the new system of industrial incen-
tives will not be fully effective unless both the equipment and the management
of industry are modernized.
The counterpart of the policy of encouraging individual initiative
that characterizes the Government's new economic policy is the disengagement
of the State, which in the future will confine its interventions to essential
areas of public activity.  To that end, on July 29, 1985 the Government
adopted a general policy statement on the parapublic sector that specifies the
arrangements for the disengagement of the State.
But concurrently with this disengagement, the Government wishes to
improve the manAgement of this sector, on the one hand, by reforming the
procedures for programming, budgeting, and monitoring public investments, and,
on the other hand, by improving its overall financial management.



- 58 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 6
It is, therefore, in support of all these reforms, which have become
unavoidable, that the Government of the Republic of Senegal is requesting the
support of the World Bank, under whose chairmanship the first meeting of the
Consultative Group was held.
The Government would like this Structural Adjustment Credit to be
considered the first in a series supporting the various phases of the PAML.
A.   Agricultural Incentives
The rural economy employs at least two thirds of the population of
Senegal. At the heart of the economic and social activity of the country, it
is assigned absolute priority by the Government.
Senegalese agriculture is going through a deep crisis that has many
causes:
-- prolonged droughts have upset the balance of the agrarian
ecosystems;
-    the rural exodus has led to a substantial reduction of the available
labor force;
-    the low degree of mechanization and the shortage of of inputs,
especially fertilizers, have prevented an increase in agricultural
productivity;
-    the relative price structure, which is unfavorable to the rural
sector, has not provided a satisfactory livelihood for small farm-
ers, whose social conditions have deteriorated; and
-    finally, rural extension services have given rise to increasing
expenses for the State which have not been offset by productivity
gains in all agricultural activities.
To reverse these trends that are harmful to the rural economy and to
the national economy as a whole, the Government of Senegal has undertaken to
implement a New Agricultural Policy (NPA), which took effect in 1984.  Its
purpose is to increaae domestic production and facilitate the marketing of
surpluses by assigning more responsibility to the actors involved (farmers,
cooperatives, traders and industrialists).  At the same time, the State is
redefining its own role by creating a general framework that rewards initia-
tive on the part of those actors, and by gradually withdrawing from its
traditional functions of support and extension in favor of a broader role of
flexible planning.
As part of the PAML and NPA, the Government has decided to undertake
a coherent package of programs which aims at accelerating agricultural devel-
opment.



- 59 -                 ANEX IV
Page 7
1.   Cereals Policy
(a) Food self-s'ifficiency of producers
The first objective is to ensure the food self-sufficiency of the
producers themselves. In recent years, the precarious nature of the living
conditions of rural dwellers has upset the nutritional balance of small holder
farmers, who are forced to sell part of their reserves after the grain harvest
in order to satisfy their ca&h requirements. In the short term, grain produc-
ers in certain regions are threatened by malnutrition.   In the preharvest
period, food needs are satisfied at a high price.  As a result, the debt
levels of the farmers have increased and the flight to the towns has acceler-
ated.
The rebuilding of village production storage capacities is therefore
an essential requirement for retaining in the countryside the necessary
volumes of food for covering food needs. Concurrently, the increases in the
producer prices of millet-sorghum, maize and groundnuts, which were announced
by the Head of State on April 3, 1985, are now enabling producers to maintain
their cash incomes without being forced to sell their personal reserves.
Improved agricultural supply requires the design and application of
a cereals program, which is now being prepared.  The components of this
program deal with the provision of production factors, the dissemination of
appropriate  technologies,  market  organization,  and pricing policy.   This
program will be submitted to the international communit- with a view to
obtaining financing during the sectoral meeting devoted to agriculture that is
scheduled for April 1986.
The purpose of setting producer prices is to increase incentives for
production.  In the event of abundant grain harvests (as in the crop year
1985/86) and in order to prevent speculative downward pressures on purchase
prices, the Government has decided that price regulation measures shall be
taken through the Office of the Commissioner for Food Security (Commissariat a
la Securite Alimentaire:   CSA), which has various procurement and storage
installations throughout the country. The areas with marketable surpluses
have been identified. CSA operations will be financed by foreign grants, by
the counterpart funds of food aid, and by an advance from the Price Equaliza-
tion and Stabilization Fund (Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilization des
Prix: CPSP), together amounting to the equivalent of about 25,000 metric tons
of millet-sorghum and maize.
The timing and location of activities under the purchase program are
defined each week in the light of conditions observed on regional markets.
When the floor price, which for example is currently set at CFAF 70/kg for
millet, is assured by private traders, CSA will not intervene. Its role is
therefore exclusively one of price regulation.
The stock controlled by CSA in 1985/86 will be sold to millers as
part of the test operation aimed at improving the processing of local grains.



-.60 -
-.60 -         ~~ANNEX IV
Page 8
(b) Marketing
Subject to respecting the floor price for grain producers, which
will assure a continuation of their efforts to increase production, marketing
is completely decontrolled.  A circular to this end, to be published in
January 1986, will eliminate all restrictive measures other than common law
measures relating to the circulation of grain, other than paddy rice, within
the national territory. The privatization of the paddy rice market will
depend on the phased disengagement of the Senegal River Valley Authority SAED,
after consultation with the World Bank and other lenders.
(c) Promotion of Urban Markets for Local Grains
Alongside satisfaction of the food needs of rural dwellers and the
organization of marketing, the third objective of the NPA is the reestablish-
ment of urban and semi-urban grain markets.
The Government has committed itself to a deliberate policy of
increasing the consumption of local grains. The components of this policy are
as follows:
The processing of local grains. Rigidities still affect production
and marketing; they also affect final demand. Consequently, it is advisable
to facilitate a shift in the behavior of consumers by offering them processed
local grains that can replace imported grains. To this end, the Government
has decided to conduct several major operations designed to deliver to the
market such processed products as semolina and millet couscous, maize flour, a
mixed wheat and millet bread, maize bread, corn meal, etc. Technical proce-
dures to do so already exist. Operations involving the CSA, the CPSP, the
millers (Grands Moulins, Sentenac), the Food Technology Institute (ITA) and
the bakers are now being launched with donor support.
Consumer prices.  The level of protection for domestic cereals
obtained since the increase in the price of imported rice to CFAF 160/kg is at
present satisfactory. Should the escential components of the import price of
grain (the world price of rice and the exchange rate of the CFA franc
vis-a-vis the dollar) change in a significant and lasting manner and lower the
level of nominal protection of local grain below 25%, the consumer price of
rice would have to be increased by the Government. 1/
If this occurred, at the semiannual reviews, the Government and the
Bank together would:
1/
At present, the nominal protection coefficient (NPC) is 43%, calculated as
follows: PV - PC = x% or 160 - 92 - 43%; where
pV               160
PV - sales price of imported rice to consumers
PC - C.i.f. price + charges other than customs duties and taxes
(or 68 + 24 - 92).



- 61 -               ANNEX IV
Page 9
(i) examine the advisability of an adjustment in the consumer price of
imported rice;
(ii)  set the amount of the adjustment;
(iii) decide on the arrangements for the adjustment; and
(iv) set the uate for the adjustment.
Furthermore, on the occasion of these reviews, the Government and the Bank may
also together assess the need to grant temporary subsidies to finished prod-
ucts based on local cereals until such time as economies of scale are
achieved.
The grain imports program. The Government has decided to stabilize the
volume of rice imports for the 1985-89 period at the 1984 level (about 340,000
metric tons). This decision was adopted by the National Assembly when it
passed Law No. 8534 of July 23, 1985 approving the Seventh Plan.  This
stabilization represents a substantial effort given the earlier import trends
noted (200,000 metric tons in 1974, 340,000 metric tons in 1984) and
population growth (+2.9X annually). It will be the result of an active policy
to reduce food dependence. The volume of wheat imports will also be limited
to the 1984 level.
As and when it is found that marketing releases genuine surpluses of
local grains and that their processing into finished products effectively
allows for a substitution of demand, the Government may decide to revise this
import program downwards.
Reform of the rice marketing system. The Government confirms its deci-
sion to separate the price equalization function from the rice marketing
function at the level of the CPSP, which will no longer concern itself with
rice import marketing operations.  The Government also confirms its decision
to privatize the importation and distribution of rice. However, in view of
the need to ensure the security of supply to all areas of the country at all
times, the Government has decided to introduce a new system for the supply and
marketing of rice in Senegal, as follows:
o    A security stock of 60,000 metric tons will be established.  It will
be imported and managed by SONADIS, a mixed capital company under
private law.
o    The Government will take responsibility for negotiating the purchase
of this security stock with rice producing countries, and its
financing will be negotiated with donors.
o    To guarantee the security of the supply of rural areas, where the
SONADIS network is in place, SONADIS will also take charge of
importing the amount required for this purpose, currently estimated
at 80,000 metric tons of rice annually.
o    This tonnage could be revised downward at the end of the two year
period ending on December 31, 1987. The private sector will use



- 62 -                ANNEX IV
Page 10
this period to strengthen its distribution network in the interior
of the country.
o    The remaining requirements of Senegal will be covered by the private
sector, both national and foreign, which will be responsible for
import operations.
O    The companies that will be allowed to carry out the import opera-
tions will have to meet a number of requirements set forth in the
competitive bidding process carried Jut under the auspices of a
committee assisted by a private consulting  firm selected after
competitive bidding.
o    To eliminate any risk of monopoly and to promote competition by
diversifying the sources of supply, in no case will there be fewer
than three importing companies (including SONADIS).
O    With the assistance of the consulting fl E retained, the committee
will be responsible for monitoring the execution of import and
marketing operations and will report on them to the competent
authorities so as to permit the latter to take such protective
measures as may be required.
O    The level and structure of the price of rice will continue to be set
by the Government. Insofar as possible, the rice price structure
will include margins determined on the basis of economic costs so as
to permit the distribution of rice in the interior of the country.
o    Apart from the customs duty on rice,  the government  levy will
consist of a specific tax that will replace the existing price
equalization levy.
O    Large- and small-scale wholesale distribution throughout the nation-
al territory will carried out by SONADIS and by Senegalese importers
and wholesale merchants working on the basis of agreements negotiat-
ed directly and freely with importers.
O    In the event of the failure of private operators, SONADIS will be
responsible for taking the steps necessary to fully supply the
country.
o    This new system will come into effect at the end of the present
supply contract now being executed by the Price Equalization and
Stabilization Fund.
o    In cooperation with donors, this transitional period will be used to
take all the steps necessary for the effective launching of the new
system when the supply contract ends. Even so, given the unavoid-
able time lags in this area, the call for bids will have to be put
out on or about February 15, 1986. A working party has been estab-
lished for the purpose of proposing to the Government the practical
arrangements for applying the new system.



- 63 -                 ANNEX IV
Page I1
o    The new system is a stage in the process already underway of
privatizing the rice system.  To this end, the arrangements and
conditions for the privatization of SONADIS will be studied and
applied in cooperation with donors.
2.   Fertilizer Policy
The following principles will guide the Government's policy in the
area of fertilizer distribution:
(a) the subsidies required to ensure an increase in consumption (through
prices acceptable to small farmers) will in no case be financed out
of the resources of the Public Treasury;
(b)  these subsidies, which must be eliminated between now and  the
1989/90 crop year, must be made in such a way as to directly benefit
agricultural producers;
(c) the schedule for scaling back the subsidization is as follows:
1986/87     1987188     1988/89      1989/90
Subsidy
(in CFA francs per        24           16           8             0
kilogram)
These subsidies constitute maxima which will make it possible
beginning with crop year 1986/87 to sell fertilizer to producers at
prices ranging from CFAF 60 to CFAF 72 per kilogram,
(d) these subsidies pertain only to cash purchases by individual produc-
ers, village-level units ("sections villageoises") of cooperatives
and producer groups, and not to regional development companies. The
objective is thus to stimulate the marketing of fertilizers by the
private sector;
(e) fertilizer imports will be progressively decontrolled between now
and the 1989/90 crop year. Beginning with crop year 1985/86, as
regards area they will be made subject to international competitive
bidding;
(f) marketing will be gradually transferred to the private sector as and
when the regional development companies are phased out;
(g) different prices will be charged in different regions, this in light
of various socioeconomic factors, in particular the transport cost
differential;
(h) these difrerential prices will be announced by end-1985.
3.   Institutional Reforms
As prcvided for in the NPA, the Government is determined to continue
winding down public companies in the agricultural sector and to promote
private initiative in all operations that do not relate to public service.



- 64 -                ANNEX IV
Page 12
Following the dissolution of SONAR and of STN, and the reduction in
the staff of SODEVA, the program includes the reorganization of SAED (in
accordance with its "lettre de mission" and the IDA credit for the irrigation
technical assistance project), of SODAGRI, and of SOKIVAC (see Section D on
parapublic sector reform). The purposes of this reorganization are:
(a) to enable the regional development companies to specialize in the
planning, project control and extension activities that are not
within the ambit of the private sector;
(b) to eliminate the need for subsidies in accordance with a phased
timetable;
tc) to reduce staff costs, adjust staff qualification and increase the
quality of the staff. To that end, a fund for the reincorporation
into the productive sector of the dismissed personnel will come into
effect at the end of 1985 with the support of the donors.
The second institutional reform already under way relates to the
groundnut marketing system. With effect from the 1986/87 crop year, the State
will completely withdraw from the seed marketing system and the producers will
have to constitute their own reserves, except for foundation seeds. However,
through SONACOS, the Government will ensure the maintenance of a stock of
50,000 metric tons of Level 2 (certified) seeds intended to cope with any
eventuality that could affect the amount of seeds available for the next crop
year. In the light of the results of the experience of assigning responsibil-
ity to producers, the Government will review the level of the public stock of
Level 2 seeds.
Concurrently with the phasing out of the public or parapublic
companies, the Government intends to increase the productivity of the public
ageuAies.  With the assistance of the lenders, it wishes specifically to
strengthen the planning and managerial capability of the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) as a particularly valuable instrument of Senegal's agricul-
tural policy. The principal components of this project, for which the Govern-
ment of Senegal requested World Bank financing on December 12, 1985, are as
follows:
-    strengthening of the units in charge of planning,  of preparing
policy decisions and agricultural strategy, and of coordinating with
other government agencies;
-    strengthening of the units in charge of the preparation and execu-
tion of the HDR budget;
-    creation/reorganization/strengthening  of  the units  in charge of
monitoring large-scale projects, the public companies and the
regional and local offices of MDR; and
-    establishment and equipping of a statistical unit for developing an
agricultural data bank, and ultimately introducing a management
chart ("tableau de bord") in the Ministry.



- 65 -               ANNEX IV
Page 13
4.   Groundnut policy
The Government's objective is to increase farm income and improve
overall performance in a subsector that is essential to the Senegalese econo-
my,  in particular in terms of foreign exchange earnings.  However,  these
objectives must be achieved at the same time as the cost of government inter-
vention is reduced. The reform of the groundnut marketing system has three
essential components:  (i) an increase in the producer price, in order to
maintain a satisfactory relationship with the prices of other substitute
products; (ii) the decontrol of the distribution and marketing of inputs;
(iii) the reorganization of the industrial apparatus (oil mills); and (iv) the
gradual elimination of subsidies on seeds and fertilizer.
A package of measures already adopted in the 1984/85 crop year
constitutes the first phase of the implementation of the above-mentioned
policy.   First,  SONAR,  the public agency heretofore  responsible for  the
marketing of seeds and the groundnut crop, was eliminated in March 1985 and
its functions transferred to the oil millers as part of the transition to the
complete decontrol of these activities.   In  1985/86,  the stock of seeds
maintained by the Gover,ment has been reduced by 20% to 100,000 metric tons;
free distribution of seeds has also been limited to 60,000 metric tons, tbe
balance being earmarked for cash sales. In addition, it has been decided to
eliminate the withholdings on seeds and fertilizer that the Government used to
collect at harvest time. Finally, on April 3, 1985 the producer price was
increased to CFAF 90/kg. At the same time, the Government has taken a certain
number of measures to streamline the management of the oil mills. The two
companies (SONACOS and SEIB) will be definitively merged in mid-1986 and their
procedures unified. A contractual agreement ("contrat-plan") to this end will
be drawn up between the Government and the new company during the first
quarter of 1987. The halving of the number of coll_ction centers, the active
participation of cooperatives, and the increase in the number of approved
traders will make it possible already this year to achieve substantial savings
in marketing costs.  In like maanner, the correction factor for absorbing fixed
costs was reduced by 50% in 1985 pending its complete elimination in 1986.
A package of supplementary measures has been decided upon for the
1986/87 crop year.  The Government will completely withdraw from the seed
marketing system except for the prefoundation seeds produced by research. It
will continue, however, to exercise quality controls over and to certify
selected Level 1 seed (foundation seed) and Level 2 seed (certified), which
come under the responsibility of the public authorities through the seed
service. An annual volume of 10,000 metric tons of Level 1 seeds, managed by
SONACOS, will be used tc produce 50,000 metric tons of Level 2 seeds, to be
used for renewing the seed stocks retained by producers. These 50,000 metric
tons also represent the security stock, under the sole responsibility of
SONACOS. Producers will thus be free either to store their own seed reserves,
to store them (after treatment) in the facilities of the oil millers in order
to keep them in good condition, or finally to buy them from the security stock
for cash or in barter transactions. The Government undertakes, by June 30.
1986, to have drawn up and implemented a seed action plan designed to
facilitate the producers' transition from the Government controlled system to
a private sector marketing system. A preliminary study in this regard is
already under way. The Government also undertakes to completely eliminate,
beginning in the 1989/90 crop year, the subsidy associated with the exchange



- 66 -                ANNEX IV
Page 14
between regular seed and certified seed. The implementation of this program
will be facilitated by the execution of the plan for enhancing the existing
equipment in village-level storage facilities.
5.   Program of public investment in the agricultural sector
For the Government, investment is an important instrument of agri-
cultural .evelopment. The investment program drawn up by the Government for
the agricultural sector during the Seventh Plan is expected to in:rease
incomes and raise productivity in the rural sector and in the existing produc-
tion systems. The overall level of the investment program and its timing are
tailored to the execution capacity of the various agencies concerned and to
estimates of the present and expected costs of the various projects.
During the Seventh Plan period, the agricultural investment program
amounts to CFAF 81.7 billion (in current terms), of vhich CFAF 42.4 billion is
allocated to irrigated crops (CFAF 33.4 billion for SAED). For the 1985-87
period, the investment for the agricultural s%tctor is set at CFAF 43.5 bil-
lion.
However, a number of projects must be reviewed in order to determine
their economic worth  or their advisability.   Furthermore,  the Government
declares that the choice of priority projects within each subsector or among
subsectors, specifically between rainfed agriculture and irrigated agricul-
ture, will be based on the criteria of net incremental benefit in economic
terms. Future adjustments of investment among subsectors will be examined
with the Bank during discussions on agricultural policy.
6.  International cooperation
The Government wishes to continue an active dialogue with the
various donors on agricultural development policy. As regards the World Bank
Group, the Government intends to pursue this cooperation in three respects:
(a)  with respect to policies, the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) is
but one stage. Exchanges of views must be continued during the
execution of the SAC and beyond, specifically as regards pricing
policies and the execution of the cereals program;
(b)  through the holding of an agricultural sector meeting, following the
Consultative Group in December 1984; and
(c)  assistance with the development of irrigation, with the reform of
the groundnut seed marketing system, and with the strengthening of
the MDR.
B.   Reform of Industrial Incentives
1.  Diagnosis
The development of the Senegalese industrial sector has slowed in
recent years. In addition to confronting unfavo_able world economic condi-
tions, certain aspects of the incentive policies adopted have ceased to have
positive effects on enterprises.



-67 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 15
The analyses conducted as part of the Government's adjustment
program have highlighted the following three aspects:
-    The priority granted to Import substitution industries,  except  as
regards the development of netural resources (groundnuts, phos-
phates, marine products), have not tended to promote exports of
nontraditional products. This policy has reached its limits because
of: (i) the narrowness of the Senegalese market; and (ii) excessive
and unequal protection that discourages exports and encourages
clandestine imports;
-    The current policy on business incentives has harmful effects.   The
proliferation of special advantages accorded on the basis of indi-
vidual agreements has produced:  (i) distortions in the industrial
environment; (ii) a poor allocation of resources; and (iii) enormous
costs for the State.
-    The  constraints  to  which  enterPrises  are  subject have  become
excessive  and  limit  the  leeway  of  industrialists:   (i)  price
control; (ii) regulation of investments; and (iii) employment and
wage legislation.
2.   Objectives
Under the medium- and long-term economic adjustment program, the
Government has undertaken to redefine industrial policy objectives and instru-
ments in order to increase the sector's productivity and competitiveness.
This new policy will be dealt with in a Government statement in early February
1986. It will consist of:
- Revising the system of industrial incentives in order to:
o    make the industrial sector more competitive on the domestic and
export markets by providing companies with inputs whose cost
and quality are more comparable to those of the world market;
o    gradually re-establish competition and increase the freedom of
decision of both private and public enterprises in a stable and
certain institutional environment;
o    lower the cost to the State of administering the incentives
system, and improve its tax revenue.
- Creating means of supporting enterprises by positive adjustment
measures, including:
o    reform  of  the  existing institutions  for the  financing of
industrial development;
o    provision of loans specifically for industrial reorganization
and development, the contribution of quasicapital and reserves,
and the transfer of enterprises;



- 68 -              ANNEX IV
Page 16
o    the availability of advisory, research and promotion services
tailored to the needs of enterprises and the withdrawal of the
State from these activities;
o    offer of technological, financial and advisory assistance to
enterprises thit locate outside the major urban centers so as
to carry out the decentralization policy;
o    coordination of  international  donors  and national economic
agents in order to detine new export-oriented manufacturing.
To this end, strengthening Senegalese research and development
potential in order to enter innovative sectors and increase the
value added of national products;
o    coordination of inJustrial policy with policies that have an
impact on industrial inputs: industrial energy, water, trans-
port, commerce, export insurance, etc.
These orientations reflect the Government's determination to see
that enterprises are free in a competitive market, while at the same time
providing them with the means for making successful adaptations during a
difficult transition period in which situations of overprotection must be
overcome.
3.   Action program
The Government's aim is to achieve these objectives between now and
December 31, 1988. Consequently, preparatory works and preliminary studies
are in progress or will be begun very shortly so that it will be possible to
draw up an action plan that will take effect on July 1, 1986 and contain the
detailed program of measures to be taken in the 1986-88 period and their
implementation schedule.
This program will be centered on the following:
(a) The establishment of a system of protection based on reduced and
harmonized tariff protection:
-    reduction of absolute and relative prohibitions;
-    gradual elimination of the prior authorizations system;
-    freezing of the number or products subject to quotas and
gradual increases in quota levels;
-    subsequent abolition of quotas;
-    reduction of import duties and harmonization of their levels so
as not to discourage its production of raw materials and
intermediate goods.



-69 -                ANNEX IV
Page 17
(b) Improvement of export promotion instruments
-    improvement of the system of drawbacks, making them endorsable
and usable for paying other duties (customs duties, fiscal
levy);
-    revision of the system of the export subsidy, basing it on
industrial value added at border prices, and adjustment of its
level to make relative "profitabilities" comparable on the
domestic and export markets;
-    simplification of procedures for granting export and Import
permits;
-    analysis of the problems associated with financing and insuring
of exports and proposal of appropriate solutions to be intro-
duced.
(c) Extension of the common law system of taxation to all companies;
-    abandonment of the principle of special agreements and con-
tracts between producing enterprises and the Government (in
particular under the investment code);
-    revision of the existing agreements so as to extend the common
system to all enterprises while respecting the Government's
commitments.
(d) Relaxation of constraints on enterrises, including price control:
-    gradual elimination of the control of industrial prices in
competitive markets (concomitantly, in the case of the sectors
concerned, with the lifting of administrative protection
measures);
-    easing  of  administrative  procedures  (investment  dossiers,
export permits, etc.).
(e) Easing of employment regulations and increase in flexibility in
determining wages
Easing of the operation of the labor market is an important condi-
tion for the success of the economic adjustm2nt program. This will be done
gradually and on several fronts: employment regulations, formulas for worker
incentives, collective bargaining, etc. The following measures will be taken,
or considered after the necessary studies have been conducted:
(i) Hiring, dismissal and employment contracts
-    introduction  of  provisions  enabling  employers  to  recruit
Senegalese workers directly or through employment agencies;



-70-                  ANNEX IV
Page 18
-    sharp reduction in the time taken by public employment agencies
to reply to job announcements by enterprises;
-    enhancement of the resources and performance (quantitative and
qualitative) of public employment agencies;
-    introduction of new provisions designed to better take into
account the economic difficulties of enterprises submitting
requests for large layoffs;
-    introduction of provisions permitting unlimited renewals of
fixed-term employment contracts.
(ii) Compensation
-    study of the link between external competitiveness, productivi-
ty and nominal wages, and proposal of appropriate measures to
be implemented;
-    encouraging enterprises and trade unions to make increases in
bonuses and wage supplements contingent on changes in produc-
tivity and the operating results of each enterprise. Greater
attention to these criteria in possible government arbitration
proceedings (in the event of disagreement);
-    reduction of the social security costs borne by labor-intensive
enterprises.
(iii)    New formulas for the determination and distribution of compen-
sation
-    study of the possibilities of a link between employee
compensation and enterprise profits, and proposal of
appropriate measures to be implemented.
(f) Other measures
-    actions aimed at generating youth employment;
-    gearing of employment policies to the creation of small busi-
nesses.
(g) Immediate measures
Recognizing the importance and the urgency of the measures to be taken,
the Government has decided to take the following steps beginning on January 1,
1986:
(a) freezing of the number of products subject to quotas, increase in
the quotas authorized for certain products, and maintenance of the
present levels for others (list provided to the Bank during negotia-
tions);



-71 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 19
(b) elimination of the prior authorization requirement for goods not
produced in Senegal (list provided to the Bank during negotiations);
(c) reduction in the rate of fiscal levies on certain products (list
provided to the Bank during negotiations).
In addition, it has been decided to:
(a) improve the system of drawbacks, making them endorsable and usable
for paying customs duties, with implementation beginning July 1,
1986;
(b) base the export subsidy on the industrial value added at border
prices, with implementation beginning July 1, 1986;
(c) prepare a new customs tariff, the draft of which will be submitted
to the World Bank for comment by July 1, 1986; it will be discussed
and approved by the Council of Ministers before October 1, 1986,
with a view to its submission to the National Assembly as soon as
possible;
(d) by July 1, 1986, eliminate the prior authorization requirements for
the categories of products in at least one of the sectors subject to
them.;
te) revise as quickly as possible the procedures for hiring, renewing
fixed-term employment contracts, and dismissal;
Cf) by December 1, 1986, implement an employment incentive policy for
labor-intensive enterprises by reducing the social costs they bear.
4. Conclusion
To sum up, the program of industrial reforms is designed to be
implemented gradually. Its principal stages are:
o    announcement by the Government of the industrial policy as defined
in this letter, in early February 1986;
o    introduction of certain urgent recovery measures during the first
half of 1986;
o    preparation and adoption of a complete program of measures that will
take effect on July 1, 1986; and
o    full implementation of the new industrial policy by December 31,
1988.
This gradualist approach will make it possible to take the support
and reorganization measures necessary in order for industries to adapt to a
changing economic environment.



-72 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 20
C.   Public Investment Policy
1.   Objectives
At present the public investment program is a four-year program with
a fixed timeframe; an adjustment is made at mid-point. Despite substantial
progress, the procedure (program preparation, execution and monitoring)
includes some flaws, the most important of which are:  the weakness of the
economic appraisal of projects, the lack of a true investment budget express-
ing the outlays for the multiyear programs in annual terms, and inadequate
follow-up in certain areas, especially in the case of projects conceived
during the execution of the Plan.
Despite the efforts made since the preparation of the Sixth Plan
began (better criteria for selecting priority projects), the rate of return on
investments is still low. Improving the efficiency of investments is one of
the principal conditions for the success of the adjustment policy in the
public sector; such improvement must come from enhanced rationalization of the
programming of investments.
To achieve this goal, the Government of Senegal has set itself a
number of objectives:
-    to assign priority to productive projects whose economic and finan-
cial rates of return are high;
-    to  improve the programs  for rehabilitating and maintaining  the
existing infrastructure;
-    to  increase   the  stringency  of  the  process  for  screening
non-productive economic and social infrastructure projects;
-    to enhance the efficiency of the public investment planning system.
2.   Implementation measures
In this context, the Government has undertaken to draw up a two-year
investment  program and to reform  its planning system.   Furthermore,  the
preparation of the Seventh Plan placed emphasis on the selectivity of develop-
ment activities, achieved by means of the Priority Action Programs (PAP). The
purpose of this methodology is, on the one hand, to bring together thnse
Seventh Plan activities that play the greatest role in the achievement of the
major objectives in a small number of programs (21) and, on the other, to
increase the level of effectiveness of the Plan by focusing efforts on the
Government's major priorities.
Each PAP has respected one or more criteria drawn from the strategic
guidelines of the Seventh Plan, namely;
-    impact on the growth of national output;
-    contribution to job creation;
-    contribution to the formation of domestic savings;



-73 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 21
impact on the reduction of the external deficit;
effect on lessening the economy's vulnerability to external shocks;
consistency with the sectoral strategy.
To ensure satisfactory execution of the activities provided for in
the Seventh Plan, the Government has taken the following measures:
-    the  definition  of  a  two-year  public  investment  program  for
1985/86-1986/87; and
-    institutional changes that reorganize certain units of the Ministry
of Planning and Cooperation (MPC) and of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MEF) so as to permit the implementation of rolling
three-year programming that will be submitted to Parliament each
year in the form of a program-law ("loi-programme").  This will
enable us, following rigorous appraisal, to introduce new projects
during the Plan execution period and to ensure close liaison between
the Plan and the investment budget, which must correspond to the
first   of   the   three   years   covered   by   the   program-law
("loi-programme").
At present, public investments are covered by a two-year program,
which constitutes a first step toward the adoption of rolling three-year
programming and thus provides a transition between the old and new systems.
3.   The two-year program of public investments (1985/86-1986/87)
The two-year program grows out of the activities identified by the
Seventh Plan.  In accordance with the DPG presented to the meeting of the
Consultative Group, priority is accorded to productive projects and to
projects with high rates of return, while in the case of projects "of deferred
profitability" such as social projects, priority is accorded to the rehabili-
tation of the existing infrastructure.
This program covers all the national projects that involve the
Government's participation or guarantee. This participation may take the form
of a direct contribution to the national investment budget, contribution
through public enterprises or Government backing for bank guarantees.
The 19B5-87 public investment program will not exceed CFAF 310
billion in current terms. The sectoral distribution is shown in the attach-
ment.   Only priority projects whose financing is ensured or those being
executed have been  retained.   Certain  projects  in an  advanced stage  of
negotiation have been included as part of the second year of the program.
Furthermore, in executing the program, the Government will take the following
factors into account:
{i) For agriculture, the choice of priority prnjects within each
subsector or between two subsectors (in particular between rainfed
and irrigated agriculture) will be based on the criteria of the net
incremental benefit in economic terms.   Future adjustments among



- 74 -                ANNEX IV
Page 22
subsectors will be examined with the Bank during our policy discus-
sions on the agricultural sector.
(ii) With respect to industry, in view of the new policy reforms adopted
in this sector, the Government will re-evaluate certain large-scale
projects, particularly those that have not yet been begun, in
consultation with the Bank.
(iii) The Government will review the priorities and the actions defined in
the railway subsector in the light of the findings of the ongoing
study on the subsector's prospects once these findings have been
adopted by the Government of Senegal. This review will be carrlcd
out in consultation with the World Bank. A study on the overall
strategy for the transportation sector in Senegal will be carried
out before June 1986 in order better to prepare the projects of the
sector in the context of the rolling programming system.
(iv) With respect to education, the calculation of recurrent costs will
be improved in order to take them into account in selecting projects
(new projects as well as those already included in the Plan, but
whose execution has not yet begun) and in identifying on the con-
straints that can hamper the efficient operation of the education
infrastructure.
The steps referred to above will be taken before end-February 1986
so that the results can be reflected in the consolidated public investment
budget for 1986/87.
4.   Implementation of the rolling three-year programing system
The execution of the plan will be strengthened by the implementation
beginning in fiscal 1987/88 of rolling three-year programming for planned
investments. This programming will make it possible to take into account any
intervening changes in economic policy and to establish a more efficient
relationship between the plan and the annual government budget. This will
contribute to improving the efficiency of investments and markedly increasing
national production.
Furthermore, this reform of the programming of public investments
will lead to the establishment of procedures for coordinating the efforts of
the various ministerial departments concerned.
No investment will be included in the program until it has been
studied and a decision made as to the advisability of its execution on the
basis of an evaluation that stresses the economic rate of return of projects
(where calculable), technical and financial viability, the arrangements and
manpower requirements for its effective implementation, and its operating
costs.
This three-year programming, which will be submitted to Parliament
each year, will make it possible to make adjustments in investment activities
annually. The Government's investment budget will represent the first of t1-,
three years covered by the program-law.



- 75 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 23
The adoption of such a system implies the need for reorganization of
the MPC and the computerization of the Debt and Investment Directorate (DDI)
of the MEF.  The Government has prepared a detailed action plan for the
implementation of these reforms, of which the key stages are the following:
(i) Reorganization of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, which
will take effect at the end of December 1985.
(ii)  Implementation of the new budgetary process:  December 1985-April
1986. The program-law of public investments for fiscal 1986/87 will
constitute the second year of the two-year program.   The first
proposed three-year program law will be presented for fiscal
1987/88.
(iii)  Preparation    of    the    first    rolling    three-year    program
(1987/88-1989/90): January-June 1986.
(iv) Computerization of the DDI: September 1985-June 1986.
D.   Parapublic Sector Reforms
1.   Diagnosis
The parapublic sector of Senegal is made up of more than 80 enter-
prises (public agencies, national corporations, mixed-capital corporations) in
which the Government holds all or the majority of the capital and of a portfo-
lio of minority participations in more than 100 enterprises. The extent of
this participation, estimated at about CFAF 130 billion, poses two major
problems:
-    The equity participations, plus the amount of the subsidies, exemp-
tions, guarantees and sureties or the reassignment of unpaid debts,
pose a heavy burden on public finances and likewise affect the
overall efficiency of the national economy.
-    Public sector enterprise that are less efficient than other compara-
ble private sector entities have adopted inefficient management
procedures that generate deficits incompatible with the essential
stringency imposed by the policy of restoring the major economic
equilibria.
This diagnosis points to precise objectives that make it possible to
take appropriate measures for a disciplined rehabilitation of the sector.
2.   Objectives
The New Policy on the Parapublic Sector (Nouvelle Politique envers
le secteur parapublic: NPSP) adopted by the Council of Ministers on July 29,
1985, is intended to strengthen the general framework that will permit the
revitalization of the national production potential and increased efficiency
in the management of government resources. To do so, the NPSP is based on the
establishment of certain priority objectives for the rehabilitation of the
sector, namely:



- 76 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 24
(a) Disengagement objectives
-    The State would reduce to a minimum its intervention in the
system of commercial activities and to focus its activities
more on its priority tasks. The principle is to decide on the
disengagement of the State when it is demonstrated that a
service or a product can be obtained at a lower social cost by
some other means.
-    The objective of this principle is, on the one hand, to define
the central core of enterprises that should remain part of the
parapublic sector because they carry out their public service
tasks effectively or because they play a strategic role in the
development of economic activities.
-    On the other hand, the principle is aimed at increasing the
involvement of private operators so as to reduce the Government
portfolio significantly.
(b) Objectives of the reform of public enterprises
There is one sphere of activity that cannot escape the direct
intervention of the State, or at least its supervision, either
because only the State can protect the general interest or because
it alone can take the risk associated with the investment.
The principal objective of reforming what is retained of the
parapublic sector is to increase the volume and quality of the
services rendered to the public while reducing their unit cost for
the State through:
improving the parapublic sector information and follow-up
system;
-    placing the relations between the State and the public
enterprises on a contractual basis;
-    incorporating efficiency standards into the internal
management of the enterprises;
-    simplifying the control exercised by the State and
strengthening its supervision.
The Government is also setting itself two objectives to be
achieved by  1989/90:   halving the present amount of the direct
subsidies granted to the parapublic sector (see section on Public
Finance below) and carrying out 20 priority reform operations
(perfori.ance contract, recovery plan, 15 of which will be signed or
prepared before end-1986).



- 77 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 25
3.   Action program
On July 29, 1985, the Interministerial Council decided to accelerate
the reform of the parapublic sector and the disengagement of the State by
establishing a short- and long-term action plan.
(a) Actions already undertaken and short- and medium-term measures
(before end-June 1986)
As pert of this new policy, the Government of Senegal has already
signed contracts-plans with SOTRAC and SONEES, as well qs "lettres de mission"
with SAED.  The Post and Telecommunications Office has been reformed, as a
result of which the National Telecommunications Corporation and the Post and
Savings Bank Office came into being on October 1, 1985.
The Government has decided on the following measures:
o    Establishment  of a methodology  for  the  appropriate  transfer of
certain State activities to private operators.
o    A  study on the establishment  of a securities  exchange will be
completed by March 31, 1986 at the latest.
O    A list of the enterprises that can be privatized or liquidated
during 1986 will be drawn up by December 31, 1985.
O    As soon as the evaluation of the State portfolio has been finalized,
it will be necessary to develop an information system on the status
of the public enterprises, in particular through the establishment
of an annual economic table ("tableau de bord") of the parapublic
sector.
o    The inventory of agreements linking the State and the public enter-
prises will be completed by end-February 1986.
O    A provisional inventory of reciprocal debts and claims for all the
public enterprises was drawn up in November 1985; a proposal for the
settlement of the reciprocal debts aLid claims recognized by both
parties is scheduled for December 31, 1985; then, a final reconcili-
ation of the figures put forward by the Ministry of Economy and
Finance on the one hand, and the enterprises on the other, is
planned for June 1986, making it possible to arrive at a net posi-
tion statement and a definitive settlement plan.
O    Data on the parapublic sector will be computerized during 1986, both
at the Ministry of Economy and Finance and in the supervisory
bodies.
o    The Government has established a breakdown by enterprise of the
subsidies recorded as common expenditure for the last six budget
years.



- 78 -               ANNEX IV
Page 26
o    A management charter of the public enterprises -- that should set
forth the major approaches to efficient management in these enter-
prises and also constitutes a necessary stage in improving the
efficiency of control -- will be prepared by March 1986 at the
latest; this chart will, inter alia, stimulate improvements in
pricing systems, forecasting, and wage policy.
O    Continuation of the preparation of contrats-plans and "lettres de
mission" defining the reciprocal commitments of the State with
certain public enterprises; those relating to SODAGRI, SODEVA and
SODEFITEX will be completed by December 31, 1985, while those for
SOMIVAC, SENELEC and SONADIS are scheduled for completion by March
1986; it goes without saying that sectoral strategies (housing,
transportation, industry and finance) will have a significant impact
on enterprise-level activities within each sector and will modify
the terms of the performance contracts to be negotiated.
o    Before end-March 1986, the Government will again update the existing
circular that recommends the preparation of audits/diagnoses before
the preparation of any program contract.
O    Merger of enterprises engaged in the same activities, with a view to
bettf: portfolio management; in the short term, this measure affects
SOFIDAK and CSCE, whose merger will become effective after the
findings of the working group responsible for deciding on a better
organization of the new institution have been submitted.
O    The disengagement of the State will take place through the transfer
of a substantial proportion of its portfolio to the private sector;
a list of the enterprises to be liquidated or privatized in whole or
in part beginning in 1986 will be submitted to the authorities for
approval in January 1986; this list will be accompanied by transfer
guidelines.  By March 31,  1986, the Goverr-aent will adopt these
criteria and select the enterprises to be privatized or liquidated
in 1986; the privatization/liquidation operations will be initiated
during the second quarter of 1986.
o    Updating of the Government's portfolio on the basis of a new classi-
fication  similar  to  that  of  the national  accounts  (commercial
sector, quasigovernmental) by end-December 1985.
O    The implementation before June 1986 of the findings of a study on
the supervisoly bodies (to be submitted by end-December 1985) will
permit more effective monitoring of the central core of the enter-
prises that will remain public; this effectiveness will be enhanced
by the adoption of a number of accounting and managerial measures.
o    A study on the advisability of regrouping financial institutions
will be conducted before December 1986.
o    A study on the pricing of public services based on cost prices and
social costs will be completed by June 1986.



79 -                ANNEX IV
Page 27
o    Likewise, a number of studies on the advisability of transforming
OHLM and PAD into national corporations or mixed capital companies
or on the attachment of certain public agencies to the administra-
tion will be completed by the end of the second quarter of 1986; for
the two enterprises referred to above, these studies will be prereq-
uisites for a possible negotiation of program contracts.
O    Finally, the measures aimed at more extensive disengagement of the
State in the sector will be continued by the introduction of a
standard disengagement procedure, the definition of the arrangements
for accelerated disengagement, and the launching of a plan for
reducing subsidies; all these are scheduled for June 1986.
The definition of the transfer arrangements, which implies the
introduction of innovations into the organization of the financial system,
with the possible creation of a securities exchange, will make it possible to
minimize the rinks of failure and to better appraise the capabilities of
private operators, both national and foreign, to take over the State's shares.
The preference granted to national investors ir. the matter of disengagement in
no case implies the exclusion of foreign investors, whose experience and
technology can in certain cases significantly contribute to the development of
the national economy.
The results expected from this disengagement are: a reduction in
the burdens on the Government budget through the gradual reduction of the
overall amount of the operating subsidies, the objective being their limita-
tion to half the present amount by fiscal 1989/90, greater economic and
financial efficiency, and improved consumer services.
(b) Longer-term actions
For the implementation of its strategy, the Government has also
decided on the following measures:
o    The contrats-plan process will be continued with the signature of
ONPCE, SONATEL, SICAP, and OHLM contrats-plams in 1986. The
contrat-plan with the institution resulting from the merger of
SONACOS and SEIB will be signed during the first quarter of 1987;
this contrat-plan will be preceded by a thorough diagnosis of the
new enterprise created by the merger and by a reorganization pro-
gram; the terms of reference of this diagnosis will be submitted to
the Bank by February 1986.
O    The recovery plan or cutback plan procedure will be continued with
the preparation of rehabilitation plans for SODESP and SERAS, among
others, in 1986.
O    A  study  on  the  advisability  of  liquidation  of  the  deficit
enterprises that have no public Eervice function and were not
included in the list of enterprises to be liquidated in 1986 will be
conducted during the second half of 1986.



- 80 -                ANNEX IV
Page 28
The coordination of the execution of the action plan for the New
Policy on the Parapublic Sector will be carried out by the Program Contracts
Unit ("Cellule des contrats-plans": CCP) of the General Secretariat of the
Office of the President of the Republic.  The CCP will submit a quarterly
monitoring report on the execution of the parapublic sector program to the
President of the Republic.
E. Rehabilitation of Government's Financial Situation and Consolidation of
the Gains Made
1. Diagnosis
Government actions have a decisive influence on the performance of
the economy, in particular because of the weight of public demand in aggregate
demand. The expansion of public consumption has led to a reduction in domes-
tic savings, an increase in the public debt, and a deficit in our balance of
payments. Current expenditure absorbs virtually all of government revenue,
preventing the Government from satisfactorily fulfilling its obligations to
all its creditors; consequently, there has been a substantial buildup in
payment arrears. Thus, as of June 30, 1983, the Government's arrears to the
public sector amounted ro CFAF 55.7 billion; the Government has undertaken to
absorb them, albeit si y because its revenue does not rover its expenditure.
Despite sustained efforts to compress the wage bill, it still absorbs a
substantial proportion of government revenue, and in the short term will
continue to exert heavy pressure because of the age structure of the civil
service and limited prospects of employment in the private sector.
2.   Objectives
Senegal will continue to pursue the essential objective of eliminat-
ing the imbalance between resources and uses of funds so as to generate
budgetary savings to provide adequate financing of public investments and
satisfactory coverage of external debt service.
The objective of reducing and even eliminating the Government's
arrears to the private sector over a three or four year period will enable it
to reinject the necessary liquidity into the economy, which will facilitate
the rehabilitation of the productive apparatus and the financing of investment
in both the private and the parapublic sectors. The settlement of the ONCAD
debt will, as a consequence of the resulting restoration of the banking
system's liquidity, contribute to the successful conclusion of this process.
This rehabilitation of the productive apparatus is the best guarantee of the
creditworthiness of the overall economy.  The reorientation of the sectoral
and functional allocation of current expenditure, and the impact of the tax
system, will be important incentive instruments.
The objectives of reducing the share of current revenue taken up by
wages and salaries and of reforming the CPSP will be continue to be pursded
because of their considerable impact on public finances.
?* Action program
The Senegalese Government will take measures designed to continue
and consolidate the financial rehabilitation. This rehabilitation necessarily



-81-                  ANNEX IV
Page 29
requires the re-establishment of the balance between resources and uses of
funds that was disturbed by the heavy demand for jobs exerted on the Govern-
ment ard the weight of subsidies to the public and private enterprises (among
other financial pressures).
The re-establishment of the balance between resources and uses of
funds demands a sectoral analysis of current expenditures so as to better
ascertain their sectoral and functional allocation. The terms of reference
for the in-depth study of this problem have been prepared and the recommenda-
tions of this study will be delivered before June 30, 1986.
To reduce the pressure of public and private enterprises on public
finances,   an inventory of budgetary subsidies   and  a  functional/sectoral
breakdown of the subsidies included in common expenditure are now being
prepared and will be included in the Government budget beginning 1987/88; the
Government undertakes to pay no direct subsidies to public enterprises other
than those included in the Government budget.  The subsidies included in the
current budget will be limited beginning in fiscal 1987/88 to public service
activities and will be evaluated on the basis of contractual documents.  The
budgetary subsidies will be reduced by at least 50% overall relative to their
1985/86 level (CFAF 9.5 billion) by 1989/90.  An analysis that will permit the
correct application by beneficiary enterprise is under way; the recommenda-
tions of this analysis will be submitted in early June 1986.  The pace at
which the subsidies will be reduced will be sharply accelerated beginning in
fiscal 1987/88 in light of the implementation of the parapublic sector reform
policy.
The terms of reference of the study aimed at identifying all
indirect transfer payments will be prepared before end-January 1986.  The
findings c- the study will be delivered at the end of June 1986.  This study
will make it possible to set up a flow chart ("tableau de bord") by the end of
October 1986.  The final report of the tax commission on revision of the tax
code as part of a further simplification and a possible broadening of the tax
base will be filed before end-June 1986 and adopted by the Government by early
October 1986. The feasibility study en the property tax register ("cadastre
fiscal") of the city of Dakar will be submitted before the end of September
1986, with a view to its implementation as soon as possible.
The recommendations of a working party on the revision of customs
duties will be submitted before end-June 1986 and a new draft customs code
will be adopted before October 1986.  A decision on the computerization of
customs declarations/assessments, as well as tne preparation of an action plan
for strengthening the customs service, will be ready by end-June 1986.  All
these steps are being taken in close cooperation with the International
Monetary Fund.
With  respect   to   the  Price Equalization and Stabilization Fund
(CPSP), the following measures are now being implemented:
-    the first phase of the reconciliation of accounts has been completed
(December 1985). A schedule for the complete payment of the CPSP's
arrears to the Treasury and its bank loaLs has been prepared. The
settlement will be completed not lat r than end-June 1986;



- 82 -                ANNEX IV
Page 30
-    collection of the CPSP's claims on rice distributors;
-    strengthening  of  the technical and  financial management  of  the
reorganized CPSP.
All these actions will be strengthened by the revision of the CPSP's
role, the Govnrnment having taken the decision to separate its equalization
from its marketing activities.   The arrangements for this separation are
defined in Section A on AgriculturaliIncentives.
In addition to the settlement of the external debt arrears, which is
a high priority for fiscal 1985/86, the settlement of the State's arrears to
the private sector is an important objective. The objective of rehabilitating
the banking system assigns high priority to the settlement of the ONCAD debt
in accordance with its contractual schedule.   The Government has already
defined the priorities for the payment of arrears, as well as a plan for their
reduction, in accordance with the following criteria:
-    claims of the small and medium-scale enterprises and claims for
small amounts;
-    for the other enterprises, selection of claims according to economic
sector or depending on the positive impact on government finance;
-    for all the categories of enterprises, given equal findings in terms
of the other criteria, claims will be settled on the basis of their
seniority.
A more detailed study will be conducted by the staff of the Public Treasury
before end-December 1986 in order to identify more reliable relationships
between the ranking of domestic arrears and the payment criteria.
In this regard, if the PAMTL is to achieve its overall objectives for
the revival of the economy, it is desirable for donors to contribute to the
resources required for that rehabilitation.
The government has decided to carry out the definitive reconcilia-
tion, by June 30, 1986 at the latest, of the reciprocal debts and claims of
the State and the public enterprises as of end-June 1985 so that they can be
settled in accordance with a timetable to be definitively established by
end-July 1986.
Public employment and the wage bill of the Government are a heavy
burden on society because of the poor performance of the private sector and of
the resulting heavy employment pressure exerted on the Government.
The Government maintains, as its immediate and minimum objective,
the stabilization of civil service staffing, which was 70,114 employees as of
June 30, 1985.   The wage bill monitoring unit is currently responsible for
the enforcement of this policy. The measures already taken will help bring
about the following annual reductions in the maximum ratio of expenditure on
wages and salaries to government revenue (excluding grants) for the next three
fiscal years:



- 83 -                ANNEX IV
-83-            ~~~Page 31
1985/86 - 53 percent
1986/87 - 51 percent
1987/88 - 48 percent.
A possible reduction and redeployment of personnel in this sector
will be facilitated by the adoption of a series of measures designed to permit
the reabsorption of former government employees into the private sector and to
improve the planning of training school admissions. These measures will be
examined in an in-depth study to be completed before the end of 1986.
A substantial reduction in civil service staffing, in particular by
means of voluntary departures by government employees, could be achieved
through the creation of conditions that promote the development of successful
enterprises. The establishment of a securities market and the setting up of a
mechanism to facilitate the establishment of enterprises could contribute to
the achievement of this objective.
To consolidate the. benefits of the austerity policies now in place,
the Government has decided to give priority to the allocation of budgetary
savings to  investments  (3udget Nationale d'Equipement:   BNE)  and to the
servicing of the external debt. Increasing amounts of funds (CFAF 12 billion)
have already been allocated to the Autonomous Amortization Fund ("Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement": CAA) under the current budget for this budget year.
This amount will increase by at least 10% annually during the next four budget
years.
To minimize the disbursements for the guaranteed debt, the Govern-
ment has decided not to renew subsidiary agreements for the rescheduling of
guaranteed debt and to apply a series of other measures to ensure that all
beneficiaries of loans guaranteed or rezssigned by the State adhere to the
contractual schedules.
Finally, the Government has drawn up a work program aimed at
strengthening capabilities as regards the multiannuaJ. forecasting of public
finances. In its first phase (January-March 1986), this program will consist
in improved data gathering and short- and medium-term forecasting methods; in
a second phase (April-June 1986), d technique for rationalizing budgetary
choices will be introduced.



- 84 -              Attachment to the LDP
Senegal: Public Investment Program, 1985/86 - 1986,'87
(In millions of current CFA francs)
Sector                 Cost of          Secured           Two-Year Program
Seventh Plan     Financing    1985/86   1986/87   Total
Agriculture               81,715          43,707      18,037   25,492   43,529
Livestock                 10,668           3,462       1,704    3,714    5,418
Fisheries                 34,835          34,735       6,099   11,414   17,513
Forestry                  26,421          13,595       4,618    7,529   12,147
Rural Water Supply        34,434          37,017      11,927   13,123   25,050
Agricultural Water
Supply                  4,524           3,902       2,068    1,622    3,690
Total:  Primary       192,597         136,418      44,453   62,894  107,347
Industry                  39,434          33,418       7,138   12,216   19,354
Mining                    38,645           6,637       2,560    7,011    9,571
Energy                    43,582          22,470      11,100   17,432   28,532
Handicrafts                1,936           1,469         841    1,145    1,986
Total:  Secondary    123,647           63,994      21,639   37,804   59,443
Commerce                   3,243           1,343         55,    1,221    1,774
Tourism                      780             775         342       343      685
Transportation            67,500          50,998      27,519   28,051   55,570
Telecommunications        29,772           8,197       6,480    7,197   13,677
Total:  Tertiary      101,295          61,313      34,894   36,812   71,706
Urban Development/
Environment             2,314           1,059       1,028      550    1,578
Housing                   15,265           7,894       4,911    2,376    7,287
Urban Water Supply        31,078          26,603       5,410    9,579   14,989
Sanitation                12,537           8,237       4,766    3,781    8,547
Health                    14,162           8,842       5,886    5,012   10,898
Education/Training        19,405          10,583       2,807    7,141    9,948
Social Deve'opment        15,064          13,328       3,710    4,370    8,080
Youth and Sports           2,140             860         860         0      860
Studies and Research      10,843           5,303       2,295    3,798    6,093
Information                1,666             108         103      827       930
Total:  Quaternary   124,474           82,817      31,776   37,434   69,210
TOTAL                    542,013         344,542    132,762  174,944  307,706
* Includes only the four-year cost of the Seveuth Plan projects included in
the two--year program.



SBEGAL: ST1 )RAL ADJ           PROGRAM
MATRIX OF ISSUE, NFASUPR  AND ACFIC=N
Structuwal Issues                      Action taken by the                  Measures to be taken                 Monitorable Actions and
Government                                                                   liLdn
1. AGRICULruRAL SECIOR
INCFENIVFS
Cereals Policy
Eye.essive dependence on food        Initiated preparation of            Identification of a coherent        Preparation of cereals develoipmit
imports; subsidization of            cereals development action          cereals development action          action prlog  satisfactory to the
liported rice; imperfect             programn with FAD assistance.       program focussing on production     Association (condition of 2nd
substitutability between                                                 factors, processing, and price      tranwhe release).
local cereals and imorted            Increase in producer prices in      policies.
cereals.                             1985.                                                                   CSA's operation is to be limited In
Introduction of producer            size (about 25,000 tons in 1986/87)    E
Rigid producer price structure       Doubling of consumr price of        price-support mchanism for          and applied to supoting prodxer    OD
and controls on murketing of         rice since 1982; eliminating        cereals nunaged by CSA.             prices.                                n
cereals.                             cawner subsidies ad
providing adequate rnimnal         Maintainance of at least a 25       Cosultatian with the am* every
Excessive Govertanrnt intervention   protection.                         percent nmninal protection for      six motbs frn date of credit
In food iports And nmrketing.                                            d9astic cereals by adjusting,       effectiveness to determne need for
Adoption of objective to           as necessary, the retail price       adjustt in rice price. the
stabilize rice and wheat           of rice, following consltatims    modalities, level and timing of the
flour import volume at             with the Bank.                      adjustmt.
1984 level for the
1985-89 period.                    Progressive state disenggement      Effective separation of the rice
from rice import operations and     operation from the PSP and
Lifting of all barriers to the     privatization of rice                participaticn of private             d 2
free marketing of cereals          distribution follouing               ij'orters/traders in import and     a 
(except paddy).                    completion of ong-oing CPS          distribution of rice after Hay 1986 m m.
contract (May 1986).                (cxidition of 2nd tranche release).
CD



Structural Issues                      Action taken by the                 Measures to be taken                 Mbnitorable Actions and
Gavernmmet                                                                  ling
Fertilizer Policy
Excessive Governmmt intervention    Elimlnation of fertilizer           Progressive elimination of          Fertilizer astidies applied in
in distribution, including hravy     levies on producer price of        fertilizer subsidies, imort         accordsace with guidelines mt1tne
subsidies.                           grcizchwuts; sale of fertilizer    liberalization, and                 In IDP; absidy li-ited to CFAP
on cash basis only; decision       privatization of fertilizer         24/kg during the 1986/87 sasoa.
not to finance subsidies           distribution by 1989/90 season.
thrai*  Treasiry resouwces and
relying exclusively on asbsidy
schim financed by external
grants in 1985/86 growing
season,
Grohuniut Sector
Excessive state intervention in      Liquidation of SMAR, the           Progressive reduction of centml    Central security stock limited to
seed distribution and marketing      parastatal uuiaging Input          grcundrut s-' security stock.       50,000 t during 1986/87 season;
of grandnuts leading to heavy        distribution; reduction in
burden  on public finances; low      central graidnut seed stock        Complete libealizatimi of seed      Discontine free distritim of
producer prices; inefficient         fran 120,000 t to 100,000 t        distribution as of 1986/87          seed; fanm to store  a seed or
structure and nnagegmt of oil        during 1985/86 season;             seasn.                              Pxrdase fra  oil m lls1 at coat.
mills, InclUding heavy state         elimination of seeand
subsidies to cover direct costs.     fertilizer levies on producer      Elminatimo of all guarmteed         Prqepratimi and  imtAtie of a
prices.                            coverage of oial milLs' fixed       seeds actim pogam  ilndig
costs. *nanus to help fm:zurs store
Reductini In half of the                                               their seed. UYier proer
guaranteed coverage of oil         Restructuring oil milling           coiditions, by June 1986.
mifls' fixed costs.                operations by umnlnMg 9CNAO)PS
aid SEIB.                           Finalization of omtract-plan with  X
Increase in the number of                                              the new casqrvy emergl    fran the   P x
private traders licensed                                               fusion of SON4AMfS and SEIB by Mendh a c
to purchase grounriuts.                                                1987.                              F1h



Structural Issueu                       Action taken by the                  Measures to be taken                   Mndtorable Actiwns and
Governe                                                                         Tf
Institutional Refons
Instituticnal weaknss in              Liquidation of SIN                   Contimued restructuring ard          Finalizatim of "lettres de
planning. investment programlng,                                           dis.engaat of RDA3.                  missICm" for 90nI, SIEVA,
budgEet1n,, statistics.               Restricturing of SODEVA,                                                  SC18(I(IVAC by Merdh 1986.
including 55% cut in staff.         Strsgthixxlng Riwal Dvelopmot
ETcessive involvement of rural                                            Ministry's abllity to plan,
development asencies (RDAs) in        Restructuring of SAED, and           program investments, and eecute
production activities;                signature of a "lettre de            budgets.
overstaffing; poorly defined          mission".
objectives, leading to heavy
burdtm on public finances.
II.  REF1Y  OF IXNX1S`UAL                                                                                                                             co
INENrIVES
General. Measures
Strategy focused on import            Elaboration of a comprehensive       Public declaratia by                 kAiw uwio nt of the nui industriu
substitution and high protection      industrial incentive reform          Government of the mian elents        policy by carly Febnrary 1986.
levels, discouraging exports,         prograoi.                            of the new industrial policy.
encourag  fraudlent 1worts,
and inereased costs to the
ecatwy.                                                                    Preparation of detailed Action       Cupletion of ktion Prograu by
PEgm for the perid July              er-3ime  1986.
19864Decerber 1988.
Protection                                                                                                                                              c
th
Proliferation of special              Freezing list of products            Reduction In absolute ai             Preparatiam of new draft tariff      co
advantages (exonerations,             subject to quotas or prior           relative levels of import            code by July 1986, and adoption by
exemptions) distorting                authorization and increase in        restrictions; gradual                Governwoet of the draft tariff code
incentive system,                     quotas for 1986.                     elimination of prin' 'iport          satisfactory to the Association by
encouraging misallocation of                                              authorizations; gradual               October 1986 (cmditiou of 2nd
investments, reducing                 Eliminatiom of prior                phasing-out of quantitative           trancbhe relea
Government revemue, and               authorization for isport of          import restrictions.



Struc,ural Jssues                     Action taken by the                 Mieasures to be taken               Monitorable Actions and
Govermet                               - ur
being costly to administer.           certain goods not produ-ed in                                            Elimination of prior
Senegal starting Janwary 1986.     General reduction and                authorizations for categories of
hanrmnization of tariffs.           products in at least one sector (to
Adoption by Gcvernment of                                               be detenmined in consultatimn with
amendment to the tariff code       Generalized use of Cmmon Law         the Association), by July 1986.
reducing the tariffs rates on      system.
15 categories of products;                                              Review of existing "conventins"
Review of Investment Code.          with private enterprises by
Renunciation of  , r,ial                                               ewd-1986 with a view to their
"Conventions" system.              Replacement of exdsting drawback    possible renegotiation within legal
system by transferable               constraints.
Adoption of principle to revise    drawbacks.
the drawback system.                                                    Adoption of rnew drawback system by
Basing export subsidies on value    July 1986.
Adoption of principle to imdify    added at border prices.                                                      co
the export cabsidy scheme so as                                         Adoption of now export subsidy          co
to base it on industrial value                                          system based on value added at
added in International prices.                                          boarder prices by July 1986
(condition of 2nd traohil release).
Covernment Control
Ecoessive controls with regard                                            Phasincg-t controlled                Review of the administrative
to: price levels and atructure;                                           industrial prices in tanixin with    procedures in the framwork of the
investment administration; and                                           measures to reduce protection in    labor law regulating hiring, firing
labor wage legislation.                                                   the respective sectors.             and temporary work contracts, by
end 1986.
Simpler Investcent Code
administration and export/lmport    Preparation of msu.res to
licensing proedures.                encourage job-creation by labor
intensive- Industries thruxxgho
Fbstering labor mbility (direct    reduction in scJa  harges, by endX
recruitment by enployers, faster     1986.
action by labor offices, mDre
flexible interpretation of         FPrther actions to be identified in
collective firing rules and         the Action Progrm.
reneral of term contracts).



Structural Issues                      Action taken b1  the                Measures  to be taken                 Mxoitorable Actions and
Government                                                                    Tmn
Incentives for hiher
productivity (linking wage
increases to productivity gains,
lower social charges for
labor-intensive industries).
III. DMPIEVED vimALfY OF
PUBLIC INVESDMEN
Institutional Refonm
Eccessive empl,asis on external        Cmpletion of camprehensive           Improved financial supervision       Extensio of debt mxnitoring system
resource mobilization at the          study of investment prognmlcng       of investmnat program, and            to project level by June 1986.          Go
expense of resource allocation.        and budgeting system and             computerized link to debt
adoption of rec enndations on       moitoring system.
Inadequate policy and planning         institutional reform.
envirotin t.                                                                Introduction of new system for
Reorganization of Mdnistry of        estimting recurrent costs.
Inadequate interministerial           Planning and Cooperation, as of
coordlnatlion.                        January 1986.
Investmnt PrograImng
Over-ambitious lnvestment targets      Reduction of public invesbment       Introduction of a three-year         Preparation of draft three
and large ruwber of uneconmic          targets for 1985-89 to levels        rolling lnvestnent program and       year program 1987/88-89/90            V
projects.                              consistent with the macro           consolidated budgeting system as      by June 1986, and its                  s
fra-.ork..                          of 1987/88.                           satisfactory review by the            4n x
Deficient project selection and                                                                                  Association (conditian for            o 4
evaluation.                           Use of Priority Action Programs      Emhasize rehabilitation and           2nd trmnwche release).                 h
In the preparation of the           naintenance operations.                                                     co
Infrequent reviews leading to          1985-89 Plan to select priority
b"x!I-up of distortions.               projects.                            Stricter technical, economic and
financial project analysis
Unclear project :ankig criteria.    Preparation of 1985-87 two year    criteria;
invesmrent progr8m 8nd its
review by the Bank.



Structural Issues                     Action taken by the                 Measures to be taken                 Mmiorable Actions and
Governmuit                                                                   T -
IV. ACCELERATED REFOM OF
Diu PARAPUBLIC SEIDR
Divestiture
Fmcessive Govenment                   Adoption of a now Sector Policy    Divestiture or liquidation of         Adoption by Govenment of list of
participation in the ecocmy           Statement and Action Program.       enterprises.                         enterprises to be privatized or
whose costs are exacerbated by                                                                                 liquidated in 1986, by ?hrch 1986.
speclal treatuakt awarded to          Liquidation of S(MAR aid SIN
parapublic sector (subsidies,         and restructrng of other
eKxqptions, debt guarantees,          parastatals.
etc).
Redhiction in indirect subsidies
(e.g., fuel subsidy to SENELEC)
mnd increase in tariffs.                                                                                       '
Rehabilitation
Misallocation or fnvesont, low        Introduction of "contrat-plan"      Improved sector data nement          Ctupaterizatim of sector data base
efficiency, poor savings and          system.                             and reportlng.                       by end-1986.
budgetary perforiwce.
Signature of contrat-plans with     Clarifying the transactions          Fial recxnciliation of cross
Fxcessive operating costs and         SDES and SOtRAC aid of              betwaen the Goverment ard the        arrears and settleet pntpL
losses (asmrnd by the treasury).      "lettre de mission" with SAED.      parapublic sector.                   by July 1986.
High level of payment arrears         Restructuring of Post and           Improved  anagemet of                FirlULzatimn of "lettres de           a
toaArd enterprises and the            TelecLmaication Sector              parastatals' contractual             missionui or "contrats-plard" for   Io.X
banking sector.                       (October 85).                       relations with the                   SCDAQ4I; SCDEVA; SC1)EFflX,         Iac
Government.                          SMOM SDIHEC; SCIADIS Ofrch    1 
Fxcessive or inadequate control       Provisional reconciliation of                                            1986), OPCE, S(W.TM, SICAP, O(11    co
and supnervisimn of the sector and    cross arrears and proposals for    Improved control of enterprises.      (end-1986), SOWCOS/SEIB (Erdh
of its impact on the economy.         settlement.                                                              87).
Poor nrwagent of enterprises.                                                                                  Study of D,dalitias for
restructuring public
financial institutions by end-86.



Structural Issues                    Action taken by the                 asures to be takn                   Modtorable Actions and
Goverrmet                                                                   T
V. PUBLIC FtNANE RB)OVY
Revemes                                                                                                      Monitored under 1HF
stan-bly arent.
Declining tax ratio despite high     Tax and price increas  under        SimplifiCatim  of the Tax Code
naDlnal tax rates.                   stabilization progrus with the    with a view to expendingx tie tax     Subldsimn of Tax CCMMittee Leport
IMF (1980/81 - 1985,'86).          base.                               by July 1986 and sttsent
Excessive legal exemptions and                                                                                implmentation of recmidations.
exoneraticns.                       Administrative. and accoumting      Taxation of real estate in urban
reform  in the public sector.      areas.                               Completimo of feaslbility stu*y for
Tax evasion (notably custc¢s                                                                                  fiscal cadaster of Dekar region, by
fraud).                              Strengt1iing of CPSP financial    Reduction and harmnizxxation of       end Septecr 1986.
mnmgeent to eisure timely          custco tariffs to reduce fraud
Weakesses in tax administration      payment of aistom duties on         and expand the tax base.             CcmpletIin of prnagrn for reezyy
(excessive mruber of low-yield       lmpxrted rice and recovery of                                           of arrm sby CPSP ard measres to 
taxes, inadequate collaboration      arrears.                            Ccaputerization of custom           lzprme CPSP tehidcal and
among various departmts,                                                 statemets to control frad.           finfraoil mnysnigut by end Jum
trainirg and muuag.wit               Dismtmiintrbng past praetice of                                          1986.
shortcamings, non-r masssent         subsidiary agrenuts                 Cmiplete repayment of arrears of
of scme taxes, e.g., real             trsnsferring to enterprises the    custoaw duties by CPSP.
estate in urban areas).              benefits of debt rescheduling.
Qwrent n2MIltures
High and fast-growing level of       Freeze of civil service staff       Sectoral analysis of current        Completlon of study of aonrrut
perscwnel eiq adiitures.             ln 1985/86.                         expenditures to lIzrove sectoral    expenditures by July 86.
aid fiunctional allocation.
High level of subsidies and          Limiting wage bill increase to                                          Plazuiig for reduction of buhaetary Pd
transfers to the parapublic          seniority increases (4-52) in       Reduction by 502 of buditary        abdmides and allocation by          o I
sector.                              1985/86.                            subsidies by 1939/90, ccmpared      benmeficiar to be fl mitted by Ame  
to 1985/86.                         86.                                 h
Insufficient allocation of           CciNmity participation (user
xudgptary resources to maintain      fees) for primry health care,       Gradual elimination of indirect     Proposasi for fmnctical1
investments (recurrent costs).       introduced in 1985.                 subsidies.                          clasesification of direct atbsidies
by mxd-imhb 1986; iplementation in
Tighter financial control and      Comtimndrng reduction in vxge        the budgpt for fiscal 1987/88.
decision to reduce subsidies       bill and stabilization of civil
and transfers to parastatals.      service muzibers; inmroving          N&uiber of civil servants not to
control of civil service            excd their level of July 15, 1985
staffing.                           (70,114).



Structural Issues                     Action taW   by the                 Measues to be take                    M0itorable Actioms and
Govemrret                                                                     T
idetification and review of
indirect sbsidies by end-Am  86;
"tableau. de bord" by end-Octcber
1986.
Ratio of  gs and saLafes to
fiscal receipts (other than grmnts)
not to exceed 532 in 1985/86, 51X
In 1986/87, and 482 in 1987/88.
Investment Financing
Exbcssive dependence on external      Inventory of Coverment payment    Settlemnt of Coveniment's not           Payment of CFAF 4 bln to private
financing of Invesbmet.               arrears to private sectors.         Iidebtedness towards private          enterprises and 12 bln to the
enterprises and the banicng          banking sector in 1985/86 awd of 10    Uo
InabUlity to service debt.            Reduction of daeestic payment       sector.                               bln and 12 bln respectively in
Depriving the ecorozuy of             arrears to enterprises and                                                1986/87 in accordance with criteria
financing through                     banks (under Stand-by program)      Increasing budgetary resontr          listed in IDP.
accunIaticn of arrears to             and plamlnng for their               for debt servicing to imprmse
enterprises and banking sector.       progressive liquidation             creditworthiness.                     Increase by 102 p.a. of budiptmry
allocation to the CAA between
Increasing role of dmowstic          1986187 - 1989/90.
banks in financing investment.
Study on the ability of the bankting
Improving debt service               sector to recycle the resources
management and perfornince.          injected by Government through
repeyment of arrears by July 1986.
Settlement of all arrears on          |
external debt by July 1986.          o x
I.4



93                                              Annex VI
SENEGAL                                       Page  1 of  6
CWR  ANALYSIS MEL(SEICAN)
MMA   RESLTS - W ED ADJUM      S       SENARIO
lIm               1981      1982      1983       1994      1985      1986      1997      1999       199       1I        1995
A. Growth and Production (in constant 1979 CFAF)
Gp            28     558.3     640.4     656.0      29.2      642.5     697.6    712.0    738.1        767.8     797.3    970.1
PRIM          38     107.7     134.3     140.9      114.6    120.1      144.6     132.7    139.0       146.1     150.5     175.6
SECMR         44     144.7    165.6      169.8      167.4    165.9      178.0     186.5    194.3       202.4     212.9    277.0
TERTIRY       48     305.9     340.5     345.3      347.2    356.4      385.0     392.8    404.7       419.3    433.9    517.6
SPR'         227       0.0      14.7        2.4      -.1        2.1       8.6       2.1        3.7       4.0       3.9       4.1
YfAGRR       219      -5.6      24.7       4.9      -18.7       4.8      12.1      -1.4       4.8        5.1       3.0       3.2
YINIR'       218       5.7      14.4       2.5       -1.4-    -0.9        7.3       4.8        4.2       4.2       5.2       5.5
YOHR'        220      -1.9      11.3        1.4       0.6       2.6       8.0       2.0        3.0       3.6       3.5       3.6
,1F'         257      15.5      19.4       13.7      10.8      12.9      15.6      15.7       15.8      15.8      15.7      15.7
ICOR        262        0.2       1.0       7.7       -3.2       5.1       1.5       7.5       4.3        3.9       4.0       3.8
B. Savings and Investment (current CFAF billion or shares)
PuER         251     670.3     845.0     939.9    1015,9   1136.8    125.5    1448.3    1604.3    1782.8   1976.0    2995.1
CONS-PUT    421      545.9     637.0     729.5      803.8     869.6     971.0    1046.4   1161.9    W21.6    1446.3    2251.4
PUGD          82      81.4      75.4      77.6       79.1      76.5      73.3      72.3      72.4       72.5      73.2      75.2
W. CONS.   500       150.7     169.0     186.5      201.5     215.5     232.6     248.6     264.5      28'.0     307.9     419.5
RUE/          83      22.5      20.0      19.9       19.8      19.0      17.5      17.2      16.5       16.0      15.6      14.0
DUN SAIE   531       -26.2      39.0      23.8       10.6      51.7     121.9     153.3     178.0      206.2    221.8      324.2
US/6D'       258      -0.6       8.4       3.8        2.1       5.1       9.3      10.4       10.9      11.3      11.0      10.9
JESTNT   425         110.1     155.2     146.5      131.9     165.3     227.8     250.2    278.2       309.1     342.0    520.2
TOT.I/WDP     84      16.4      18.4      15.6       13.0      14.5      17.2      17.3      17.3       17.3      17.3      17.4
RES3         549    -136.3    -116.2    -12.7    -121.3    -113.5    -105.9       -97.0    -100.2    -102.9   -120.1    -196.0
RSEAS GDP   252      -20.3     -13.8     -13.1      -11.9    -10.0       -8.0      -6.7      -6.2       -5.8      -6.1      -6.5
C. Public Finance (current CFAF billions)
TOTAL REV 1/388      146.5     170.9     190.B      209.8     223.0     246.7     266.9    290.8       317.6    349.3      510.3
ORt EXP      389     174.3     185.4     201.2      221.7     257.0     288.0     300.2    326.1       350.5    380.4      518.1
aR   Y SAME 398      -27.8     -14.5     -10.4      -11.9     -34.0     -41.3     -42.4     -35.3      -32.9     -31.1      -7.8
BEV EXP      399      30.3      54.9      40.5       44.1      46.9      52.5      58.9      65.9       72.8      79.4     122.1
ALSW         445       5.0      19.6      21.2        4.8      11.3      15.0      15.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
MT EXN    448        209.6     259.9     262.9      270.6     315.2     355.5     383.0    392.0       423.3     459.7     640.2
FIlE         401      63.1      89.0      72.1       60.8      92.2     108.8     116.2    101.2       105.7     110.4     129.
EXT. FIN.    402      38.0      80.2      54.6       63.9      81.3      59.7      52.6      46.2       52.2      57.7     107.3
DMN DR       407       0.0      58.7       11.7       3.8       2.6       4.7       4.0       4.8        5.4       6.3       7.7
pj Gp  21 415          0.0       0.0       5.8       -6.9       8.3      44.4      59.6      50.2       49.1      46.4      14.9
FI1IEGP   520          9.4      10.5       7.7        6.0       8.1       8.2       8.0       6.3        5.9       5.6       4.3
FIN 6APG   414         0.0       0.0       0.6       -0.7       0.7       3.3       4.1       3.1        2.7       2.3       0.5
SENIX          1/  including grants (capital and budgetary)
2 / excluding new rescheduling and use of IMF resources                                                 WOM
1:38 m



- 94 -
Annex VI
Page 2 of 6
4IAMGED ADJUSTMENT SCENARIO
ITEm           1981     1982      1993    194      1995     1996     1987     1989    1N9       1990     1995
D. Exports and Imports  (current CFAF billions)
GROMDUNUTS  130     9.1    44.3    59.4       53.5    31.7    65.7    73.8    82.8    93.0          99.5    134.0
FISH       131    27.9      37.6    41.7    49.0       55.2    62.8    71.4       81.3    92.6    105.5   203.2
PNOSPHATES  132    19.9    21.6      22.7    29.6    26.5    29.6    33.9    38.6    44.1           50.4    63.1
PETkI;EUN   133    38.3    45.6      40.8    45.7    47.0       47.3    50.9    54.9   S.9    63.4   116.1
SALT       134      2.3      2.9      3.1      5.4      5.9      6.4      7.3      8.3      9.3     10.2    16.6
COTTON     135      2.0      4.8      8.1      6.0      7.3      8.5      9.3    10.1    11.3        9.7   -10.4
FERIOLIZERS 136     2.6      2.0      3.9     12.2    24.6    37.6    44.5    52.7    62.4    73.9    102.6
OTHERS     137    33.6    30.4    32.0        34.7    40.0    45.1    51.0        57.9    65.9    74.8   122.5
ENTREPOT   138      3.1      4.4      4.9      5.5      5.6      6.3      7.1      9.0      9.0     10.2    16.2
EXP NFS    139     97.2   108.2    107.0    112.6   127.2    142.0    160.4   181.0   204.7    231.3    367.9
EXP6NS     206    226.0    301.8    323.6   352.2   371.0    452.1    509.5   575.5   651.1   728.8   1131.7
Iw FOOD    151    72.9      71.5     69.0    65.0      62.4     71.6    77.2    85.2    92.7    106.8   144.6
IMP PET    152    90.8    82.6    77.4    105.0    93.9         96.9    100.4    110.0   120.6    132*.   220.6
OTI.CON.6   145    36.9    50.7    54.2    57.2    61.0    68.6    74.1    93.2    93.7    106.4   171*2
INT.GOODS   146    68.8    82.1      93.8    91.8    99.0    113.8    127.6    142.98   160.2    181.4   294.0
CAPITAL 6.  149    32.5    45.0    62.6    55.5    60.5    78.2    85.0    93.9   104.3    115.6   168.5
ENTERUPT    150    19.3    22.0      23.6    24.8    25.2    29.1    31.2    34.6    38.4           43.2    65.3
FR. I INS.  153    37.4    42.6    45.7    48.1    48.8    56.2    60.5    66.9    74.1    83.3   125.5
IFS         74    89.5    106.7    111.4   122.3   131.3   156.1    171.4   192.9   218.3    246.2   388.9
119F6i    208    362.3   418.0    446.3   473.5   484.5   558.0    606.4   675.7   754.1   849.0  1327.7
E. Balance of Payments (current US dollars, *million)
RESIAL     208   -501.7  -353.3  -322.0  -277.6  -243.1  -252.1  -230.8  -238.5  -245.1   -286.1  -466.6
NErWSY     205   -93*8   -87.0   -120.7  -164.8  -155.3  -146.1  -156.6  -160.7  -163.9  -168.5  -217.8
NETCTR     194     31.3    29.5    29,1    31.1    32.1         34.1     37.2    40.6    43.6       46.2    61.9
CURDAL     209   -564.2  -410.8   -413,6  -411.3  -366.3  -364.0  -350.3  -358.7  -365.4   -408.4  -622.6
NETDIRFURIWJ 197   65.9    44.4      51.4    91.3    53.5    60.3    63.9    67.8          D1.8    76.2   101.9
DBT6RT     122   122.2    106.5    112.8    129.1   117.8    124.6    132.0    140.0   148.4    157.3   231.1
OBTMOF      92    214.8    260.1    303.7    198.9   235.7   261.1    282.0   300.4   317.4   336.6   516.3
DBTPRI      93      2.9    45.7    14.4    11.4    60.1    38.3    29.4    18.3    26.0    22.2    20.0
NTIRFF      95     12.2      8.5    13.7    24.9    42.6    86.6    103.7    130.5   145.3    167.0   203.9
ANTPRI      96     35.8      1.4      3.3     10.2    15.6    40.2    55.6    54.7    47.1          25.2    22.3
IEflILT    104    169.6    295.8   301.1   175.2   237.6    172.6    152.1   133.5   150.9    166.6   310.1
SHTER      198     11.0      3.0      2.8      3.0      3.5      3.5      3.6      3.7      3.8      4.0      5.1
CE         199    195.5    -38.9    -54.4    12.9   -46.2        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
GAPFIL     210      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      2.9    -1.3    13.7    -9.6         4.3   -25.6
RESIIAL   252   -20.3   -13.8   -13.1    -11.9    -10.0    -8.0          -6.7    -6.2    -5.8    -6.1    -6.5
CUJUIP   253    -22.9   -16.0    -16.8   -17.7   -15.0   -11.5    -10.2    -9.4    -8.6    -8.7              -8.7



95 -                                         Annex VI
Page 3 of 6
MANAGED ADJUSTMENT SCENARIO
ITM              1981       192       1993      1984     19        1986      1987      1988      1m        1990      1995
F. External Debt  (current US dollars, million, or ratio)
COUIFF        87    311.3      48.4    195.6    252.6    265.0    295.2    310.9    338.9    366.8    388.9    604.9
mIUm         8B      31.5      47.9       16.2     58.7      19.4      10.0      10.0      10.0      20.0      20.0      20.0
_ELT         113    979.6   129.4   1493.9   1546.1   1793.8   1956.4   2108.4   2242.0   2392.9   2559.5   3932.1
BMW         214        0.0       0.0    160.5    179.8    201.3    228.4        254.5    29.8    325.0    368.3    413.5
BDUDA# P   303        39.7      48.3      67.1      74.2     81.6      69.2      68.5      66.5      64.0      62.2      59.5
KIT SERC  367        99.2       48.0      59.2    106.5    159.1    249.0    291.0    319.3    330.7    335.0           406.6
DS/EXPGIFS   264      10.7       5.2       7.0      10.5     17.3      20.9      21.7      21.1      19.0      17.1      13.3
iSR-W/P    360        10.7       5.2       7.0      13.2     20.0      23.1      24.0      23.3      21.3      19.3      15.1
(current CFAF billions)
INT DON     394      10.0       10.0      10.0       0.6      0.6       1.0       1.1       1.2       1.3       1.4       1.7
INT FOR     396      11.2       12.5      16.0     24.0      38.3      42.3      44.9      44.6      44.2      44.7      57.2
IfT. ON  P  217       0.0       0.0       0.0       8.4      10.1      10.1      11.5      12.8      15.1      16.4      19.9
INTEREST    397      21.2       22.5      26.0     33.0      49.0      53.4      57.5      58.7      60.5      62.5      78.6
TOTAL. MY    38      146.5     170.9     190.8    20Y.8    223.0    246.7    266.8        290.8    317.6    349.3    510.3
G. rrices (1979 = 100)
XPRICE       198    113.9       99.9      95.4    104.2    101.9    120.1    128.:    137.8    147.8    158.6    205.1
NPRICE       189    120.1      111.3    109.6    110.1    103.6    122.5    131.8    142.1    153.4    165.5    212.4
TTINDX       190     94.8       89.9      97.0     94.7      98.3      98.0      97.5      96.9      96.4      95.9      96.5
IPO    1/  250    120.1    131.9    143.3    161.5    176.9    190.0    203.4    217.4    232.2    247.8    309.8
H. Per Capita  Consumption  (CFAF  '000, 1979  prices)
PC'JPoP     59      74.7       7d.5      77.8     75.1      73.3      74.3      72.6      73.2      73.8      75.0      80.8
6C'IPUP      593     19.8       20.0      20.1     20.0      19.0      19.6      18.0      17.4      17.0      16.7      15.7
l'/PoP       581     94.5       96.5      97.9     95.1      92.3      92.9      90.7      90.6      90.8      91.7      96.5
SEN/CAH/79
I/   GDP deflator                                                                                   12/06/95
11:41 Al



- 96 -
SUMMARY RESULTS
FORCED ADJUSTMENT SCENARIO                             Annex VI
Page 4 of 6
IlEII            1981      1992     1993      1984      1985      1Y96      1987      1989      199      19        1995
A. Growth and Production  (in constant  1979 CFAF billions)
GDP          23    558.3    640.4    656.0    629.2    642.5    699.B    689.9    701.B    715.0    729.5    801.7
PRIMR        38    107.7    134.3    140.9    114.6    120.1    134.6    129.1    131.3    133.7    136.1    149.7
SECONDAR     44    144.7    165.6    169.9    167.4    165.9    169.2    171.9    175.1    178.4    191.7    199.6
TERTIARY     48    305.9    340.5    345.3    347.2    356.4    395.0    397.8    395.3    402.9    410.6    452.3
GDMZ'       227       0.0      14.7      2.4      -4.1       2.1       7.2       0.0       1.9       1.9      1.9       2.0
YA6R6R'     219     -5.6      24.7       4.9    -18.7        4.9      12.1      -4.1      1.8        1.9      1.8       2.0
YIDR'       219      5.7      14.4       2.5      -1.4      -0.9       2.0       1.6       1.9       1.9      1.9       1.9
YOTHGR      220     -1.9       11.3      1.4       0.6       2.6       8.0       0.7       1.9       1.9      1.9       2.0
I/bUY'      257      15.5     19.4      13.7      10.8      12.9      11.9      12.0     12.0      12.1      12.1      12.2
IC0R        262      0.2       1.0       7.7      -3.2       5.1       1.8   1241.4       6.4       6.3       6.3       6.2
B.  Savings and Investment  (in current CFAF  billions,  or % share)
DPCUR       251    670.3    945.0    939.8   1015.9   1136.8   1334.2   1455.7   1614.8   1765.0   1901.1   2816.4
CONS-PT    421    545.9    637.0    729.5    803.9    869.6   1012.3   1086.9   1206.9   1319.9   1426.3   2114.6
PC/UP        92     81.4      75.4      77.6      79.1      76.5      75.9      74.7     74.7      74.9      75.0      75.1
GW. CONS.  500    150.7    169.0    186.5    201.5    215.5    236.5    259.7    283.9    307.2    328.9    477.6
SCAUP        83      22.5      20.0      19.8     19.9      19.0      17.7      17.8      17.6     17.4      17.3      17.0
MDO SAYING  531    -26.2      39.0      23.8      10.6      51.7      85.3    109.1    124.1    137.9    145.9    224.2
DS/'DY      258     -0.6       8.4       3.8       2.1       5.1       6.5      7.3       7.4       7.6       7.5       7.6
r jSIN   425    110.1    155.2    146.5    131.9    165.3    174.7    191.5    213.0    233.8    253.0    376.0
TOT.I/GDP    84      16.4     18.4      15.6      13.0      14.5      13.1      13.2     13.2      13.2      13.3      13.4
RESL        549   -136.3   -116.2   -122.7   -121.3   -113.5    -89.4    -82.4    -B9.0    -95.8   -107.0   -151.8
RESBA/DP  252    -20.3    -13.8    -13.1    -11.9    -10.0            -6.7      -5.7     -5.5      -5.4      -5.6      -5.4
C.  Public  Finance  (current  CFAF billions  )
TOTAL REV 11 3S5    146.5    170.9    190.8    209.B    223.0    242.9    261.7    295.2    30B.5    331.4    459.5
CIIRR EXP    389    174.3    195.4    201.2    221.7    257.0    292.0    318.6    342.7    369.5    399.7    579.0
CUR GOV SA4E 398    -27.8    -14.5    -10.4    -11.9    -34.0    -49.2    -56.9    -57.6    -61.0    -67.3   -119.5
DEV EXP     399     30.3       54.9     40.5      44.1      46.9      35.2      39.4     44.1      48.8      53.2      91.8
AFARS       445      5.0      19.6      21.2       4.8      11.3      15.0      15.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
TOT EXPEND  448    209.6    259.9    262.9    270.6    315.2    342.2    373.0    386.9    418.3    451.9    660.8
F1HED       401      63.1      89.0     72.1      60.8      92.2      99.4    111.3    101.7    109.9    120.5    201.3
EXT. FIN.   402      38.0      90.2     54.6      63.9      81.3      57.9      48.3     39.1      37.9      35.1      51.9
DOM  RUG2  407        0.0      58.7     11.7       3.8       2.6       4.0       3.8      4.7       4.7       4.6       5.9
FIN GAP  -/415       0.0       0.0       5.8      -6.9       9.3      37.7      59.2     57.9      67.2      80.8    143.6
FINR/SDP  520       9.4       10.5      7.7       6.0       8.1       7.5       7.6      6.3        6.2      6.3       7.1
FIN GAP/GDP 414       0.0       0.0      0.6      -0.7       0.7       2.9       4.1      3.6       3.8       4.3       5.1
SEN/M          1/   including  grants  (capital  and  budgetary)
new
2/   excluding/rescheduling  and  use of  IMF  resources                                          12/06185
5:00 PM



- 97 -
Annex VI
Page 5 of 6
FORCED ADJUSTMENT SCENARIO
ITM              1981     1992      1983      1984      1985     1986      1997      199      1989      1990      15
D.  Exports  and  Imports  (current  CFAF billions)
GROUNUTS   130        9.1     44.3      59.4      53.5     31.7      65.8      69.1      72.6     76.2      90.0      97.9
FIS         131      27.9     37.6      41.7      48.0     55.2      62.8      70.4      78.9     99.5      96.7    150.6
POSHTES  132         19.9     21.6      22.7      28.6     26.5      29.6      33.9      38.7     44.2      50.5      63.2
PETRLEUEM    133     38.3     45.6      40.8      45.7     47.0      47.3      49.9      52.5     55.3      58.3      95.9
SALT        134       2.3      2.9       3.1       5.4      5.9       6.4       7.3       8.2      9.1      10.0      15.9
COTTON        5       2.0      4.8       8.1       6.0      7.3       8.5       9.1       9.5     10.2      1.1       14.2
FERRILIZERS  136      2.6      2.0       3.Y      12.2      24.6     37.7      43.8      50.9     59.2      69.8      95.7
OTHERS      137      33.6     30.4      32.0      34.7     40.0      45.2      49.5      54.5     60.1      64.7      80.6
ENTREPOT    138       3.1      4.4       4.9       5.5       5.6      6.3       6.9       7.6      9.4       9.2      12.9
EXP IFS     139      87.2    108.2    107.0    112.6    127.2    142.9    157.2    173.7    192.3    212.7    304.4
ECPSI       206    226.0    301.8    323.6    352.2    371.0    452.5    496.9    547.1    603.5    662.1    931.3
IMP FOOD    151      72.9     71.5      69.0      65.0     62.4      73.3      79.9      90.4    102.4    116.2    144.1
IMP PET     152      00.8     82.6      77.4    105.0      93.9      97.0    101.0    108.4    116.4    125.0    207.4
OTI.CDN.6   145      36.9     50.7      54.2      57.2     61.0      70.6      74.2     81.6      99.7      98.7    138.7
fIfT.GGOS   146      68.8     82.1      93.8      91.8     99.0    108.3    117.7    129.9    141.4    155.0    212.1
CPITAL 6.  149       32.5     45.0      62.6      55.5     60.5      65.3      69.8     76.1      93.0      90.5    121.0
ENTEOtOPT    150     19.3     22.0      23.6      24.8     25.2      28.1      29.8      32.6     35.7      39.1      53.3
FR. t INS.  153      37.4     42.6      45.7      48.1     48.8      54.4      57.7      63.1     69.1      75.6    102.7
IFS          74      88.5    106.7    111.4    122.3    131.3    153.8    164.6    181.1    199.B    220.1    309.2
IRP1MFS     208    362.3    418.0    446.3    473.5    484.5    542.0    579.4    636.1    699.3    769.1   1083.1
E. Balance of Payments  (current US dollars, million)
RESIAL      208   -501.7   -353.3   -322.0   -277.6   -243.1   -212.9   -196.3   -211.8   -228.2   -254.8   -361.5
NETFSY      205    -93.8    -87.0   -120.7   -164.8   -155.3   -146.1   -156.7   -161.2   -164.8   -168.6   -187.7
NETCTR      194      31.3     29.5      29.1      31.1     32.1      34.1      37.2      40.6     43.6      46.2      61.9
CURIAL      209   -564.2   -410.8   -413.6   -411.3   -366.3   -324.9   -315.8   -332.5   -349.4   -3.2   -497.3
NETDIRFRrINU 197     65.9     44.4      51.4      91.3     53.5      60.3      63.9      67.8     71.8      76.2    101.9
D3TGRT      122    122.2    106.5    112.8    129.1    117.8    124.6    132.0    140.0    148.4    157.3    231.1
DBTOFF       92    214.8    260.1    303.7    198.9    234.8    255.4    269.4    279.8    286.5    293.4    366.0
BBTPRI       93       2.8     45.7      14.4      11.4     60.1      38.3      29.4      18.3     16.0       2.2       0.0
AmTOFF       95      12.2      8.5      13.7      24.9     42.6      86.6    103.7    130.5    145.9    169.0    203.9
AmtPRI       96      35.8      1.4       3.3      10.2     15.6      40.2      55.6      54.7     47.1      25.2      12.3
NETHLT      104    169.6    295.8    301.1    175.2    236.8    166.9    139.5    113.0    109.4    101.3    149,8
SERIIRK     198      11.0      3.0       2.8       3.0      3.5       3.5       3.6       3.7      3.8       4.0       5.1
CAPEI       199    195.5    -38.9    -54.4        12.8    -45.3       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
GAPPIL      210       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    -30.5    -23.2        9.1      15.9      38.4      -0.6
REsDAL/GDP  252    -20.3    -13.8    -13.1    -11.9    -10.0         -6.7      -5.7      -5.5     -5.4      -5.6      -5.4
CWBAL/5DP  253    -22.9    -16.0    -16.8    -17.7    -15.0    -10.2           -9.1     -8.6      -8.3      -8.3      -7.3



- 98 -
Annex VI
Page 6 of 6
FORCED ADJUSTMENT SCENARIO
tTEi               1991       1992       1983       1984       1985       1996       1997       1988       1989       1990       1995
F. External Debt (current US dollars, million, or ratio)
COI'FF        87      311.3      498.4      195.6      252.6      272.0      304.2      323.6      338.0      353.5      367.9      482.9
WmRI           8e      31.5       47.9       16.2       58.7       19.4       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0        0.0        0.0
IWILT         113     979.6    1239.4    '493.9    1546.1    1782.9    1949.9    20W993    2202.3    2311.7    2413.1    3033.1
ma3w         214        0.0        0.0      160.5      179.8      201.3      195.0      195.2      226.7      269.8      340.6      779.2
DOf&P?/BBP  303        39.7       48.3       67.1       74.2       81.5       67.5       65.9       63.2       61.4       60.8       56.9
MDMT MERIE 367         89.2       48.0       59.2      106.5      159.1      249.0      287.1      312.6      323.6      330.4      403.1
*DS/EUGiES   264        10.7        5.2        7.0       10.8       17.3       20.9       22.3       22.2       20.6       18.9      14.4
DSR-U/AP    360        10.7        5.2        7.0       13.2       20.0       23.1       24.3       24.0       22.5       21.0       18.2
(current CFAF billions)
INT DO       394       10.0       10.0       10.0        0.6        0.6        1.0        1.1        1.2        1.3        1.4        1.7
INT FMR      396       11.2       12.5       16.0       24.0       38.3       42.3       45.0       44.8       44.6       44.8       44.5
INT. ON GAP  21W        0.0        0.0        0.0        8.4       10.1       10.1        9.8        9.8       11.4       13.6       35.1
INTERESTS    397       21.2       22.5       26.0       33.0       49.0       53.4       55.9       55.9       57.3       59.8       81.3
TOTL RE       388     146.5      170.9      i90.8      209.9      223.0      242.8      261.7      285.2      308.5      331.4      459.5
G. Prices (1979=100)
PRIMCE        188     113.9       98.9       95.4      104.2      101.?      120.2      12B.5      137.8      147.9      158.9      207.0
NPRICE        189     120.1      111.3      109.6      110.1      103.6      122.3      131.4      141.7      153.1      165.4      212.3
TIrIOX        190      94.8       98.9       87.0       94.7       98.3       99.3       97.8       97.2       96.6       96.1       97.5
IPD  1/      250      120.1      131.9      143.3      161.5      176.9      193.7      211.3      230.1      246.9      261.0      351.3
H. E er Capita Consumption (CFAF '000, 1979 p rices)
PC'JPOP      582       74.7       76.5       77.8       75.1       73.3       76.0       72.7       71.9       71.0       70.3       67.2
6C'/POP      593       19.9       20.0       20.1       20.0       19.0       18.6       1B.2       17.7       17.3       16.9       15.9
0'/P0P       591       94.5       96.5       97.9       95.1       92.3       94.6       90.8       B9.6      89.3        97.2       83.0
SEIUCbn
1/ GDO    deflator                                                                                                12/06J85
5:02 PH



114.                                                                 -    ,                        0
M        A     U     R     I    T     A     N   I   A                                                       f               ALGERIA           LigTA
SPANIS4611MAIIIA I
SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                                                                MAURITANtA
-L"N.
Dop 'I."I call'uIs                                                          i   0
'I It%                                                                         fo., OP-
IS     N.1-4 C.P.1                                                                                                                                                                                             VI   't %(                   I
sni.-Capilall                                                                                          0                                                                                                               %IGERIA
JIlvomy
0                                                                                                                                                                                       SERPtA LIONE /.I'( COAS?      E' I
uBIMA
e                                                                         BZNIN
Octem                                GABON
ko
K11.0mlyflis                                                  R    'E    G         0    N
Ame",
F""
Atlantic                              R  E          0    N
REGION OF                             R E 3 ._Ti                         0    U
Q. f,               j F
CM-VERT                                                                                                                                                                                kel
Th,es
')                0
SC,
-T- H  I  E  5
DAKA0
J
Ocean                                                              "110
OwBa, r
R  E              N4     0         S      N  E      S  A  L  0  'j
R    E   G'  I    0                   0    F                                    M     A     L     I
5    f    N    E    r,
lambac.                                          L
I
.01
c    R         E    N  ."-T--"A      L
r
N, td       de to
man AV d mew"lt iLv ft
rAww ot rtm wxu gbrh
rm do-W."                              E    G                                                C           5    A    M    A   "N    C    E                     V    ot a - /reVA
&Akspvv vmm
P" to do ow ". an tw              4...                         0'
PM of rft wym arA VW ft                   j 
R VIP
of
le"
CAP sm"MON
GUINEA   Blssiu                                                                                        G U I N
I'e                                                                      12.                                 S
F.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             =






