OFFINIAL
DOJCUME,NI
DUTCH GRANT CREDIT NUMBER 1656-1 SE
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Senegal - Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
provided by the
MINISTER OF DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated                                1986


﻿DUTCH GRANT CREDIT NUMBER 1656-1 SE
DUTCH GRANT AGREEKMNT
AGREEMENT, dated    4   *k     o4u.           , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of the
Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister for
Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (the Association) and of
the Minister in the financing of the Program of structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy, described in a letter from
the Borrower to the Association dated December 19, 1985 (the
Program);
WHEREAS the Association acting as Administrator of the
Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa has granted an African
Facility Credit for this purpose on the terms and conditions set
forth in an African Facility Credit Agreement dated February 26,
1986 between the Borrower and the Association acting as Adminis-
trator of the Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African
Facility Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the
Borrower a structural adjustment grant in the amount of twenty-
five million Dutch Guilders (the Dutch Grant) to assist the
Borrower in carrying out the Program on the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an arrangement of even date herewith between the
Minister and the Association, the Minister has requested the
Association, and the Association has accepted, to administer the
Dutch Grant in accordance with the provisions of that arrange-
ment.
WHEREAS the Borrower acknowledges that the financial assist-
ance extended to the Borrower under this Dutch Grant Agreement
shall be considered as part of the bilateral development aid
extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement subject, however, to the following modifications
thereof:
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant pursuant to the agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Minister and the Associa-
tion, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in Sec-
tiois 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b) the term "Development Credit Agreement" whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c) the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Dutch Grant extended to the Borrower under this
Agreement;
(d) the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the account opened by the Administrator in its
books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the
Dutch Grant is credited;
(e) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means   the  imports and   other   activities
'that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the African
Facility Credit Agreement";
(f) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(g) in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also
include the International Development Association acting in its
own capacity;
(h) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for-this purpose between


﻿-3 -
the Borrower and the Administrator, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the program referred to in
the Preamble to the Dutch Grant Agreement, the performance
by the Borrower and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the Dutch Grant Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Dutch Grant"; and
(i) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03,
4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8,01 (a) and 12.05 are deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the African Facility Credit Agreement have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth and "Special Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or refer-
red to, a grant in an amoutt of twenty-five million Dutch
Guilders (Dfls 25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Dutch Grant may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Admiaistrator.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in convertible CFAF a special account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Adminis-
trator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
the African Facility Credit Agreement, it being understood that
the references in said Schedule to "African Facility Credit,"
"African Facility Credit Account," "Administrator" and "Autho-
rized Allocation" shall be deemed to be references to the Dutch
Grant, the Credit Account, the Administrator of the Dutch Grant,
and 700,000,000 CFAF, respectively.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall other-
wise agree, contracts for goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall be procured in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the African Facility
Credit Agreement which is hereby incorporated into this Agreement
with the same force and effect as if it were fully set forth
herein, it being understood that the references in said Schedule
to the "Administrator", the "African Facility Credit Account" and
the "Special Account" shall be deemed to be references to the
Association acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant, the
Credit Account and the Special Account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, respectively, and the reference to
Section 2.02 (b) in the African Facility Credit Agreement shall
be deemed to be a reference to Section 2.03 (b) of this Agree-
ment.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made only
on account of expenditures for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, the territories of: (i) any Part II member of the
Association; or (ii) any country designated by the Administrator
as meeting the provisions set forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and
(iii) of Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 of the Executive
Directors of the Association.
(c) If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Dutch Grant, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under this Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amoun. of the Dutch Grant as, in the
Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or such
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administra-
tor shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The national general director for Senegal
of the Central Bank is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted


﻿-5-
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Dutch Grant
and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Administrator in support of such applications;
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts
of not less than CFAF 325,000,000.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein,
Articles III and IV of the African Facility Credit Agreement are
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being under-
stood that all refer-ices in said Articles III and IV to "the
Administrator" shall be deemed to be references to the Associa-
tion acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this
Agreement and all references to the "African Facility Credit"
and the "African Facility Credit Account" shall be deemed to be
references to the Dutch Grant and the Credit Account, respec-
tively.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Dutch Grant available to the Central Bank under arrangements
satisfactory to the Administrato.. The Borrower shall exercise
its rights under such arrangements in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Dutch Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. The Minister or the Secretary of State for
Economy and Finance of the Borrower shall be the representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie
et des Finances
Rue Charles Lain6
B. P. 4017
Dakar, Senegal
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                      3203 SG
Dakar, Senegal
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
Section 4.03. in accordance with the arrangement referred to
in the Preamble of this Agreement between the Minister and the
Administrator, the rights and obligations of the Administrator
under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The
Borrower accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administra-
tor to the Borrower to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso
facto, from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in
all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agree-
ment as if the Minister had been an original party to this Agree-
ment, without any further action or formality required on the
part of any party, and from such date the Adm:Lnistrator shall
cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this
Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of
the date first above written and shall continue in effect until
the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the part'es hereto, acting thrcugh their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day anj year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By A/             r      b       /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Dutch Grant
By /S/
Y       Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Wittdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Dutch Grant
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Administra-
tor shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought., and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear   reactors,  and   parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry   of  gold,  silver   or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths'   or  silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971.0              Gold, non-monetary    (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)


﻿-9-
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods shall be eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to January 1,
1986;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption.


﻿INTERNA IONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


