Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25502
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-241 00)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION
TO THE
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR A
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
February 28, 2003
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of January 22, 2003)
Currency Unit = New Israeli Sheqalim (NIS)
NIS I = US$ 20.618
US$ 1 = NIS 4.856
FISCAI, YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMIS
AB                 Arab Bank
CBP                Commercial Bank of Palestine
FATEN              Filastinia Lil Iqrad wa Tanmiyya (Palestinian Finance and Development Org.)
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Agency
IFC                International Finance Corporation
JNB                Jordan National Bank
MENA               Middle East and North Africa
MEP                Microenterprise Project
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NPLs               Non-Performing Loans
PA                 Palestinian Authority
PAR                Portfolio At Risk
PCBS               Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
PMA                Palestinian Monetary Authority
QAG                Quality Assurance Group
TA                 Technical Assistance
TFGWB              Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank
UNRWA              United Nations Relief and Works Agency
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
WBG                West Bank and Gaza
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:     Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager      Zoubida Allaoua
Task Manager:      Stephen Karam
Hamid Alavi



WEST BANK AND GAZA
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 16
9. Partner Comments                                                                17
10. Additional Information                                                         17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              26
Annex 8. Counterpart Completion Report                                             27
Annex 9. Survey Results of Beneficiary Enterprises                                 32






Project ID: P047065                                     Project Name: MICROENTERPRISE
Team Leader: Hanid R. Alavi                              TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: February 28, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: MICROENTERPRISE                               LIC/TFNumber: TF-24100
Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                 Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: Micro- and SME finance (100%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 06/30/1996                              Effective: 11/19/1997         11/19/1997
Appraisal.  07/10/1996                               MTR:                      05/29/2000
Approval:  10/10/1996                             Closing: 07/31/2002         07/31/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Palestinian Authority
Other Partners: International Finance Corporation; Govermment of the Netherlands
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                        Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:     Nigel Roberts                            Odin Knudsen
Sector Manager:      Zoubida Allaoua                          Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:  Stephen Karam.                           Mirza Qamar Ahmad
ICR Primary Author:  Hamid Alavi and Stephen Karam
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the Microenteprise Project (MEP) were to: (a) promote employment
through private sector development; (b) achieve commercial viability and sustainability for microenterprise
lending; and (c) build capacity in both banks and microenterprises (defined as enterprises with less than 10
employees). It is important to note that the MEP was not intended to be a traditional microfinance project.
In contrast with such projects/programs, which usually target women and the poor with financing to
support income generating activities as a means of supplementing household incomes (not necessarily as a
means of creating employment), the main aim of the MEP was to encourage private sector development and
growth in West Bank and Gaza (WBG) in the immediate post-conflict period by introducing small
businesses to the emerging formal banking sector. The ICR therefore refers to final beneficiaries as small
enterprises. The Project nevertheless was designed on the basis of experience gained from "traditional" best
practice microfmance programs, including features such as decentralized decision-making, cash-flow based
lending and loan officer incentive systems.
The project aimed to create incentives for 3 participating commercial banks -- Arab Bank (AB), Jordan
National Bank (JNB) and Commercial Bank of Palestine (CBP) -- to develop specialized lending techniques
to explore the market potential for lending to small-scale businesses. With the prospect of achieving
profitability in small-scale lending, it was assumed that commercial banks would continue offering these
services and hence provide a sustainable source of small business lending, without further recourse to
donor funding. The project provided financing to the participating banks in order to reduce the perceived
risk of small business lending and serve as a catalyst for a transition from collateral-based to cash
flow-based lending. Furthermore, the project provided initial technical assistance to microenterprises to
support their efforts to access financing from the formal banldng sector.
The Project's objectives were consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for West Bank and Gaza (See
Further World Bank Assistance to the West Bank and Gaza, July 14, 1995, (R95-144, IDA/R95-123),
namely by "supporting the emergence of the private sector." Indeed, the project was structured to support
the Palestinian Authority's adopted strategy of encouraging a private sector-led economic growth strategy.
The partnership forged between the IFC and IDA in designing and implementing the project, with IFC
assuming the lead role, was consistent with this approach.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original Project objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
1. Technical Assistance to Participating Banks
This component was financed in its entirety by an IFC Trust Fund established with funding from the
Government of the Netherlands. Its purpose was to provide technical assistance to banks to guide them in
engaging profitably in small business lending. The estimated cost of this component (US$2.4 million) was
in line with actual technical assistance support requirements.
Building on international experience, this component supported the placement of an experienced
international microenterprise finance advisor at each of the participating MEP banks. The Advisors' tasks
were to (i) review with bank management the financial service requirements of the microenterprise lending
sector and develop loan products that could viably satisfy demand, (ii) assist bank management in
preparing a business plan for the new product and market strategy, detailing staffing requirements, lending
targets, and financial product prices designed to ensure profitability, (iii) assist bank management in
-2-



identifying and training loan officers and managers to comprise the MEP team, (iv) work closely with bank
staff to revise and simplify loan applications currently in use to make them more effective for
microenterprise lending, (v) support loan officers and bank officials in screening loan applications at both
the regional and branch levels and at credit committee meetings, and (vi) develop a training program,
including senior management seminars, exposure trips, and on-the-job training, course work and preparation
of operational and skills manuals addressing portfolio planning and management, and microenterprise
management and accounting.
TA assignments at each bank were expected to span a period of two years. Funding for this component,
approximately US$1.75 million, was divided into a two-year, two-phase arrangement where positive
performance in the first year would trigger advancement to the second year. Subsequently, an agreement
was reached to extend the TA for a third year for an additional amount of approximately US$680,000.
2. Technical Assistance to Microenterprises
The purpose of this component was to provide needed training and support to prospective small borrowers.
This component was also not financed by the Bank, but was arranged by LFC through the Netherlands
Development Finance Company (FMO), which provided the financing. The estimated cost at the Project's
design phase was US$1 million, but only US$213,000 was made available. The consulting firm was
required to (i) prepare training material, including a business plan format, conforming to bank requirements,
for use by small businesses in applying for MEP financed loans, (ii) conduct promotional activities, (iii)
implement a training program, and (iv) provide on-demand business counseling.
3. Onlending to Microenterprises
This component involved onlending to small businesses by the three participating MEP banks with a type of
syndicated loan financing package comprised of financing from MEP banks (37.5 percent), IFC (37.5
percent) and the Bank's Trust Fund Credit (25 percent). Each source of financing was administered in a
segregated account. Eligible businesses (with fewer than 10 employees) were to be granted commercial
loans up to US$30,000 with a maturity of up to 5 years. The overall cost of this component was estimated at
US$20 million in the design phase. Of this amount, US$7.5 million was to be provided by MEP
participating banks, an additional US$7.5 million on a quasi-equity basis by the IFC, and US$5 million
onlent to the banks by the Palestinian Authority (PA) from a Trust Fund Credit provided by the Bank. The
Bank's contribution was made on IDA terms to the PA, which in tum on-lent the funds to the commercial
banks on the same terms but with a reduced maturity of 20 years and 10 year grace period.
3.4  Revised Conmponents:
The original Project components were not revised.
3.5  Quality at Entry:
The Project's design featured three complementary components that were intended to support and reinforce
each other. This approach is consistent with the World Bank's best practice microenterprise lending
operations, as it recognizes the need to couple technical assistance to suppliers of microenterprise credit
(commercial banks in this instance) with technical assistance to microenterprises in parallel with financing
provided to microenterprises. In this regard, the Project's design reflected well the triad relationship between
these three components. However, this ICR rates the Project's quality at entry as "Unsatisfactory" as two of
the components - TA to the Banks and the credit component - which were to be financed in parallel by other
donors, were delayed due to lack of timely availability of the funds. This rating is in contrast to the rating of
the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), which conducted a Quality of Supervision Assessment and issued
-3 -



its report on July 29, 1999, in which it stated that the project design was sound and that the project was
ready for implementation at approval.
The design of the project per se was appropriate. The selection of participating banks was consistent with
standards outlined in the report "Small and Micro-Enterprise Financing: Guiding Principles for Selecting
and Supporting Intermediaries," issued by the Committee of Donor Agencies for Small Enterprise
Development in October 1995. The choice to work with existing commercial banks was by no means an
obvious one. Instead, in many developing countries, specialized microenterprise lending institutions, often
NGOs or other informal intermediaries, are established or supported. However, as MEP targeted small
enterprises, it was appropriate to go through commercial banks. There were three reasons for this choice.
First, by April 1996, the banking system was highly liquid, with a deposit base of US$1.3 billion, and yet
only a limited range of financial products and services offered by the banks, even by comparison with many
other developing country markets. Of this amount, only US$225 million had been channeled back into the
local economy in the form of loans, while the vast majority of these assets -- approximately US$1 billion --
had been deposited abroad. Second, following a period of competition among banks operating in WBG for
customer deposits, opportunities for growth began shifting to a focus on developing new products and
services and reaching out to new customers. Small businesses were specifically targeted under MEP as a
new niche market Third, existing small business lending and credit programs in WBG generally had a
very poor track record, including highly subsidized interest rates and ineffective collection and repayment
procedures, which meant that most were experiencing significant loan losses and thus were unsustainable.
The Project's design was based on the assumption that successful small enterprise lending would depend on
establishing a new lending and credit culture based on market principles that banks had an incentive to
introduce as they sought to expand their client base.
The choice of the participating banks was critical and for the most part reflected important considerations.
First, there was the consideration that because a majority of the banks that had entered WBG at the time
were headquartered in Jordan there would be a need to identify a Palestinian bank or one that could
effectively serve the Gaza market. For this reason, Commercial Bank of Palestine (CBP), which had
branch offices in Gaza, was selected, along with two Jordanian banks -- AB and JNB. It was also felt that
the technical assistance would have the most development impact on a local Palestinian bank. Among the
alternative locally-owned bank options, CBP was the most realistic choice because of the expressed
commitment of its management, its existing portfolio of loans which featured some small-scale lending, and
a minimum requisite level of institutional capacity. It was recognized at the Project design phase, however,
that CBP had less banking experience, less financing strength, and limited technical expertise. This is why
the IFC committed only US$1.5 million for onlending to CBP, in contrast to the US$3 million provided to
the other two banks. In addition, the consulting firm assigned to CBP was the most experienced firm
among the three consulting finns/advisors. Despite the choice of CBP as a participating bank, however,
coverage of the Gaza market was limited. This was largely due to CBP's limited size and possibly because
it is headquartered in Ramallah in the West Bank. The anticipated risk that Jordanian banks might not
make the full commitment to Gaza proved to be the case with AB, but JNB sought a license to open branch
offices in Gaza, which was denied by the Palestinian Monetary Authority (PMA). This issue is addressed
in further detail in other sections of the ICR.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
It should be noted that this review process has been constrained by the prevailing conditions of closure and
curfew throughout the West Bank, in particular during the review period, thus preventing MEP banks from
collecting data as part of their routine portfolio monitoring exercise. The same problem arose in attempting
-4 -



to contract a local firm to solicit borrower feedback. End-borrower feedback, therefore, was limited to a
number of interviews conducted by the ICR review team while on mission in the Ramallah area. Interviews
were also conducted with representatives of other lending programs to offer comparative insights.
The rating of the ICR for the achievement of the objectives is "Unsatisfactory". This was regarded by the
ICR team to be the result of "force majeur" conditions that began in October 2000 with the eruption of
violence and political instability and that continued through the project's completion. Closures, curfews and
movement restrictions imposed on the Palestinian areas had a disastrous effect on the business environment
and, consequently, on financial institutions operating there. WBG has been under continuous closure both
externally and internally. This has made movement, even between nearby areas, very difficult. Similarly,
the movement of goods (inputs and products) has been severely restricted. Increased transactions costs
caused by border and internal closings and onerous security inspections have eroded the ability of
Palestinian enterprises to operate. According to supervision reports (February 2002), prior to the Intifada,
post-production transactions costs were estimated to be 30 percent above the value of goods produced
(three times the MENA average), and increased by a further 50 percent after the Intifada.
In an effort to isolate the impact of exogenous factors on achievements of project objectives, the ICR
reviews project performnance before and after the crisis. At the Project's mid-term review in June 2000
(some three months prior to the outbreak of violence), the Project was well on its way to achieving its main
objectives. US$2.06 million had been disbursed to participating banks and another US$1.2 million was
expected to be disbursed by the end of 2000, based on pipeline sub-borrower applications. 605 loans had
been disbursed, creating some 1,100 new jobs or about 1.7 jobs per loan - which is in line with
international experience. From that time to the Project closing, however, less than US$200,000 was
actually disbursed to participating banks from the Trust Fund Credit, as most new loans were being
financed out of the reflows from previously issued loans. While discussions took place with MOF and
participating MEP banks about the possibility of extending the closing date of the Project in the event of a
cessation of violence and hostilities, no such development took place.
Table 1 shows that the MEP was in full stride during the period from March 1999 to March 2000. Note
that onlending to small businesses had not started until September/October 1998, explaining the relatively
limited activity up to March 1999. However, over the following year new MEP lending at all three banks
dramatically increased in terms of the number of loans approved and amount disbursed. This period also
witnessed an expansion in branch offices by Arab Bank and a significant increase in new employment
creation.
Table 1: Situation at Mid-Term (cumulative)
CBP                      AB                      JNB
31 -Mar-99  31 -Mar-00   31 -Mar-99  31 -Mar-00  31 -Mar-99  31-Mar-00
Number of loans      19          103         42          231          49          361
approved
Amount disbursed    195,700    1,325,000    114,000     1,627,300   561,000     4,376,810
(USD)
Average loan size   15,054      13,802       3,353       7,786       14,025      12,650
(USD)
Arrears as % of     0%          0.6%          -         0.4%          -          0.1%
portfolio >30 days
MEP Branches         3           3           6            8           5           5
Jobs created       16          37           71         519          92          558
Source: Mid-Term Review supervision report June 2000
-5-



Table 2 illustrates the dramatic effect of the crisis on the MEP participating bank portfolios following the
September 2000 eruption of violence. While new lending continued, it increased only in small increments, as
all three banks began to shift their focus to collections and portfolio management. In parallel, the percentage
of portfolio at risk (PAR) increased from a fraction of one percent to an average of about 70 percent among
the three banks; banks reported extreme difficulties in reaching borrowers due to closures, roadblocks and
curfews throughout the West Bank. JNB, which had up to this point been the star performer among the
three banks, was particularly hard hit because it had aimed to target the untapped rural segment of the
market (60 percent of its loans in the Ramallah area were in rural villages). Loan officers faced difficulties
in reaching these borrowers, and borrowers in turn found it difficult to reach branch offices to make timely
payments.
Table 2: Situation after Mid-Term (cumulative)
CBP                           AB                            JNB
31-Dec-00  31-Dec-01  31-July-02  31-Dec-00  31-Dec-01  31 -July-02  31 -Dec-00  31-Dec-01  31-July-02
Number of loans  169     189      200       352       373       374        530       553        559
approved
Amount disbursed  2,044,000  2,319,000  2,389,000  2,660,300  2,794,500  2,836,500  6,376,650  6,741,891  6,853,822
(USD) __  _ _   __  _ _
Average loan size  13,019  12,672  12,707   8,419      9,162    9,180      12,286    12,191    12,261
(USD)  I__          _   I                    I__   _ __                                 _ _ _
Arrears as% of  20%     47%      76%       12%       39%       68%        25%       42%       72.5%
portfolio >30 days             I         I __                                     I
MEP Branches   5         5        5         9         9         9          5         5         5
Source: Quarterly MEP Bank Reports
PAR over 30 Days
80% -
70% -
60% /
50%r                                                                                   AB
40% -                                                                                     J -  NB
30 ,..... --  .     :    -    '    .    ....__ _ _ _  ?   - : "  .CBP
20% -
0%
The observed pattem of growth in lending and generally positive performance at all three banks up to the
Project's mid-term, followed by a similar pattem of contraction in lending and increase in PAR at all three
banks, supports the conclusion that factors exogenous to the Project were largely responsible for the
outcome by end-of-project.  However, it is also important to consider the impact of the crisis on other
-6 -



WBG microfinance programs to see whether they were able to adapt better to the crisis than the
commercial banks and thus provide insights regarding future such interventions, particularly in
post-conflictlin-conflict environments. The review team met with representatives of FATEN, an NGO
specialized in microfinance, and the United Nations Works and Relief Agency (UNRWA) Microenterprise
Lending Program. For the most part, the performance of these two programs were similar to those at the
MEP banks. Initially NGOs and other non-regulated financial intermediaries had the advantage of
adapting their collection procedures. FATEN began allowing loan officers to use payment vouchers to
collect payments from their borrowers at their residences or businesses, as many lived in remote areas and
were unable to reach FATEN offices to make payments. This arrangement was not possible for
commercial banks, as they were prohibited by banking regulations from allowing loan officers to collect
directly from borrowers. While this strategy seemed to be effective during the first few months of the
crisis, the protracted nature of the conflict and increasing economic contraction throughout WBG
ultimately prevented most borrowers from continuing to make payments to FATEN for financial reasons.
Nearly all borrowers expressed that they were experiencing depressed demand for their products or
services, while many also had either lost assets due to the conflict, been injured or imprisoned, or were
overextended and could not collect from customers or faced other difficulties due to the crisis. FATEN's
lending fund of US$2 million prior to the crisis was reduced to half by August 2002. Its financial
sustainability ratio of 90-95 percent up to September 2000 plummeted. FATEN is now facing an operating
deficit due to the significant decline in lending volume. It will rely on donors to help cover its deficit.
Development Objective 1: Promoting employment through private sector development
This ICR rates the achievement of this development objective (DO) as "Unsatisfactory". The project was
expected to create a minimum of 3,500 new jobs, while it had only created 1,400 leading into the crisis,
which is likely to have reduced unemployment, although no data was available to assess this final outcome.
The achievement of this DO was significantly affected by the current crisis. Before the crisis, the DO was
largely being achieved. By the Project's mid-term (June 2000), 865 full-time and 225 part time or
approximately 1,100 new jobs had been created, against a projected mid-term target of 1,500. While this
target was not fully achieved, it can be explained by the slow start of the Project (the project took just over
one year to be made effective and another year of technical assistance training to participating banks and
small businesses before the first loans were approved in September 1998). Following this slow start,
Project performance rebounded sharply: for example, over the one year period from March 1999 - March
2000, jobs created by the participating banks increased from 180 to 1,115 (Table 1).
At the Project's mid-term, the businesses financed by MEP appeared dynamic and sustainable and many of
them operated in market niches with growth potential. Examples are: (i) a woman-owned business
producing garments for large sizes. As the cheaper imports from Asia only served smaller sizes, this
entrepreneur has found a market niche with a ready and growing demand; (ii) an entrepreneur making neon
signs being the first and only one in West Bank; (iii) an entrepreneur making locally produced, processed
and packaged sauces, jellies and herbs; and (iv) a physician setting up a medical testing lab for a variety of
tests that before could only be conducted in Israel.
However, since the Intifada (three months after the mid-term review), few jobs have been created, and
during the last year, some jobs have been lost due to the closure or reduction of business activities of some
beneficiaries.
-7-



Development Objective 2: Achieving commercial viability and sustainability for micro-enterprise
lending
The ICR rates the achievement of this DO as "Unsatisfactory". As in the case of the first DO, the
achievement of this DO was significantly affected by the current crisis. Prior to this date, all indications
were that this DO was on its way to being fully realized (Table 1). At the time of the mid-term review, AB
and JNB were already making profits on MEP lending, and CBP reached profitability a few months later.
(Note that the financial cost used in the profit calculation was the average costs of funds of each bank, and
not the costs of the loan fund, which included the subsidy element under the project).
Since October 2002, most micro and small enterprises have faced serious liquidity problems, and the
participating banks, along with other financial institutions in the WBG, have been forced by portfolio
quality problems to provision for loan losses, which has affected their profitability. While in September
2000 (before Intifada) the PAR of small enterprise loans stood at 3, 6 and 8 percent for AB, JNB and CBP,
respectively, the corresponding figures increased to staggering levels of 68, 73 and 76 percent by June
2002.
[Table 3: Portfolio At Risk
CBP                        AS            II           JNB
Sept. 00  Dec. 01  Jun. 02  Sept. 00  Dec. 01  Jun. 02  Sept. 00  Dec. 01  Jun. 02
PAR >30 days        8%      47%      76%      3%       39%      68%      6%       42%       73%
# of loans           8       54       76       6        51      70       22        137      228
Amount of arrears   17,997  116,330  204,712                             31,210  282,035   591,992
Outstanding balance  106,633  314,366  395,385  42,702  280,153  347,935  235,496  965,932  1,379,019
Total outstanding  1,260,659  664,158  522,369  1,467,327  714,747  510,018  3,939,732  2,327,483  1,900,928
Successive Bank-IFC supervision missions focused on reviewing portfolio management issues with MEP
banks. Discussions took place with other donors, primarily USAID, which offered technical assistance
programs to banks and other financial intermediaries, with the aim of designing training and counseling
support to manage lending portfolios in times of crisis. Program and loan officers at all three MEP banks
took advantage of these training opportunities and stated that they benefitted greatly. Supervision missions
also discussed legal follow-up and actions in cases of extensively delayed payments or delinquencies. MEP
banks indicated that the legal system is not functioning effectively due to restrictions on movement of
judges, lawyers and court administrative staff. They also stated that pursuing borrowers at a time of
political crisis where in most instances payments have not been made because of the borrower's financial
situation in a distressed economy would likely lead to a public backlash against the banks themselves.
Issuing notices to borrowers and calling on guarantors were the methods used in most cases where loan
payments have been long overdue.
Development Objective 3: Capacity building in both banks and microenterprises
As far as capacity building at the level of the participating banks is concerned, the ICR rates the
achievement of this DO as "Satisfactory". The participating banks have created dedicated small lending
units and have applied specialized techniques for small business lending; have trained dedicated loan
officers; decentralized decision making; adopted cash-flow based lending; and developed intensive client
relationships. Effective management information systems have been established at all three banks to enable
- 8 -



them to generate comprehensive reports, which are analyzed and used in formulating new strategies. MEP
eased access by small businesses to working and investment capital without the need for collateral. The
creation of this capacity has also been profitable for the participating banks. None of the participating
banks, especially the weaker one (CBP) would have started onlending to small businesses because of their
lack of knowledge of cash flow and character based lending, and because they considered small businesses
an unacceptable credit risk. Prior to MEP, all three banks thought the transactions costs involved in
servicing small clients was relatively high. The three year TA program addressed this technical shortfall.
The experience gained from lending to small businesses and achieving profitability prompted all three
banks to state that they intend to re-initiate active microenterprise lending once hostilities diminish.
Through the provision of financing (IFC and TFGWB), the perceived risk was also reduced.
Capacity Building In Banks: The Case of the Arab Bank
The Arab Bank provides in its completion report (September 2002) an indication of the ways in which it has
institutionalized elements of the Project and is responding to the current crisis:
(i)  The Project served to strengthen the capabilities of program and loan officers in analyzing loan applications,
based on cash-flow, character-based lending techniques. This training and experience ultimately helped
during the period of economic downtum since September 2000, as loan officers were more capable of
selecting and identifying suitable clients for the Program.
(ii) Interest rates have been reduced to improve competitiveness and expand lending to small businesses,
particularly in response to the reduced demand.
(iii) Three regional management staff remain involved in the administration of the program despite the low level
of activity.
(iv) Nine staff at nine branch offices assigned to work on the MEP still retain their present position without duty
diversion.
(v)  The microcredit committee established under the Project continues to function, composed of staff from the
institutional/private banking department and the Credit Department.
(vi) MIS reports continue to be generated regularly and supplemental reports are issued to focus on issues of
particular concern during the crisis.
(vii) Two program managers attended training in ME problem loan collections and follow-up.
(viii) New promotional materials were prepared for the MEP to promote lending to small businesses prior to the
crisis; Arab Bank plans on launching this campaign after the hostilities subside.
As. far as small enterprise capacity is concerned, the achievement of the DO is harder to ascertain and the
ICR rates it as "Unsatisfactory". In fact, there are indications that the TA to microenterprise component
was delivered relatively independently of the other Project components (see below) and that most of the
enterprises assisted did not have the opportunity to borrow from the participating banks. The ICR team
had access to a survey of the beneficiary enterprises that was conducted in April 2000. The survey,
however, was conducted by the same firm that provided TA to microenterprises and its accuracy could not
be confirmed. These results are nevertheless reported in Annex 9.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A - Technical Assistance to Banks
Despite initial delays in making the funds available for the TA to the banks, this aspect has been completed
in a "Satisfactory" manner. IFC secured a total of US$2.4 million in Trust Funds from the Netherlands for
a three-year TA package (originally envisaged for two years) that entailed the secondment of an expatriate
advisor to each of the participating banks. It also involved the selection and training of credit officers,
exposure trips and training in Europe, and the design and implementation of automated loan screening and
monitoring systems and client tracking systems.
In interviews conducted during the last supervision mission with MEP participating banks, all three banks
-9-



indicated that the support they received from resident advisors was highly valuable to them. An indication
of their keen interest in this support was their request to extend the assignment from a two-phased,
two-year period to a three-year period. IFC reached agreement with the Dutch Government in November
1999 to extend this support to MEP banks for a third year.
The TA provided to AB got off to a slow start in comparison to that provided to the other two participating
banks. A senior management exposure trip was postponed from the latter half of 1998 to the latter half of
1999 due to senior management's heavy workload, which precluded taking time out for the exposure trip.
Credit officers' exposure trips were also postponed. After this slow start, the support of AB management
for the program increased and has been crucial to its successful implementation. This was confirmed by
management willingness to assign more staff to the program. CBP was the most advanced of the three
participating MEP banks in implementing its TA component and, as a result, was the first to start
onlending (September 1998) to small businesses. The TA component provides CBP with specific operating
procedures, forms and an automated MIS to assist in monitoring key project indicators and in preparing
reports.
Component B - Technical Assistance to Microenterprises
The ICR rates this component as "Unsatisfactory". The Project design estimated a need for US$1 million to
support this component. Ultimately, only US$213,000 was provided through the Netherlands Development
Finance Company (FMO). A local consulting firm was engaged to provide the training, which may have
reduced the overall need for financing, as an international firm was considered in the original project
design. Nevertheless, it still appears that this component was underfinanced. First, training was only
provided in the West Bank, so potential borrowers in Gaza could not benefit. Second, trainee feedback in
the Program Final Report (See Annex 9) indicated that trainees sought more hands-on practical assistance,
which trainers' tight schedules did not allow. Overall, the consultant conducted 21 workshops for
current/potential microenterprise borrowers in eight different cities of the West Bank; with a total number
of participants reaching 261 and covering three sectors (trade, services and, manufacturing). However, the
TA program was not tied to the implementation of the other two components of the MEP, with the TA
starting before the launch of the banks' lending activities.
Therefore the small business clients of the three banks participating in the MEP were not able to take full
advantage of the TA program. A critical issue in the linkage of both TA components to the onlending
components was that no cofinancing had been firmly committed by the Project's inception. Eventually,
funding was provided by the Dutch Government, but this component was ultimately under-financed. It is
worth noting that several other training and support programs operated in parallel and provided
considerable support to small businesses. However, a direct linkage between these programs and the MEP
was never established.
Component C - On-lending to Microenterprises
The ICR rates this component as "Unsatisfactory" due to the instability of banks to continue lending after
the onset of the Intifada. Overall onlending to small businesses reached just over US$12 million by
end-of-project, against a projected total of US$20 mnillion for 1 ,133 loans. The breakdown in the number of
loans approved and disbursements for each MEP bank are provided in Table 4 below. Of the US$5 million
provided by the Bank's Trust Fund Credit, US$2.19 million was disbursed. A breakdown of disbursements
by participating MEP banks is provided in Table 5. Of the three banks, JNB outperformed the other two in
terms of the number of loans approved and disbursed.
-10-



Table 4: Lending Summary for the Three MEP Banks
MEP Participating     Number of     Amount disbursed  Portfolio in arrears
Bank                Loans approved       (USD)              as
% of total portfolio
Arab Bank                374           2,794,500            68%
Commercial Bank of       200           2,389,000            76%
Palestine
Jordan National Bank     559           6,853,882            73%
Total                    1,133         12,037,382
Source: MEP Bank Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Table 5: Disbursements of the Bank Trust Fund Credit by Participating Bank
MEP Participating    Sub-Loan       Disbursed       Undisbursed         %
Bank                 Allocation   Amount (USD)     Amount (USD)      Disbursed
Arab Bank            2,000,000       406,423         1,593,577          21%
Commercial Bank of    1,000,000      297,675          702,325          30%
Palestine
Jordan National Bank  2,000,000    1,482,739.75      517,260.25         75%
Total                5,000,000     2,186,837.75     2,813,162.75       44%
Source: Bank Loan Department Data
As mentioned above, while the Project had demonstrated progress by the midterm, the situation reversed
following the start of the crisis. Less than US$200,000 was disbursed from the Trust Fund Credit to
participating banks after June 2001, as most new loans were being financed out of the reflows from the
previously issued loans. During the last 6 months of MEP, limited lending took place as CBP approved
only eleven new loans, while JNB approved six more and AB approved only one new loan under the MEP,
with additional disbursement of US$70,000, US$111,931 and US$42,000 respectively. Due to the
continuing depressed economic environment, the banks focused primarily on collections, portfolio
management and quality, rather than new lending, as PAR increased significantly.
The average loan size was approximately US$12,000 per borrower at JNB and CBP and slightly lower, at
US$8,000, at AB, which was in line with the original project design. Loan portfolios were also reasonably
well distributed between manufacturing, service, and trade businesses.
Arab Bank (AB): By June 1999, MEP became operational in five branches (Azarea, Al-Bireh, Hebron,
Jenin and Nablus) as compared to only two branches in December 1998. By MEP closing, eight branches
were involved in the project. Seven staff were assigned to the program (increased from two in December
1998). Arab Bank began with a relatively cautious and centralized approach; over time, however,
management became more willing to adopt new techniques and methods of doing business. Indicators
include assignment of additional staff in branches to MEP and adoption of an incentive program.
Commercial Bank of Palestine (CBP): Only one full-time staff member at CBP had been assigned to the
MEP Program as of June 1999, while three staff have been assigned to work on the Program at the three
branch offices (Ramallah, Nablus and Gaza) on a part-time (50 percent) basis. All loans made as of June
1999 were made to small enterprises that had been operating for at least a year; emphasis had been placed
on collateral rather than cash flow/character based lending. Few loans had been made to new startup
businesses.



Jordan National Bank (JNB): Of the three banks, JNB embraced the concept and engaged in small
business lending to the greatest extent, as illustrated in the data presented in Tables 4 and 5. In addition, it
made the greatest commitment in staffing of the MEP program (21 part or full-time staff), compared with
12 and 7 at AB and CBP respectively. Additionally, several of JNB's program staff remained with the
Project from inception to close out, thus promoting cohesiveness and consistency in program management
and reporting.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
This was not calculated in the original Project design. The existing data does not allow calculation of the
ERR. The Project's ERR, however, would undoubtedly have been negative at this time due to the force
majeur conditions that impacted the project significantly.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
This was not calculated in the original Project design and existing data does not allow calculation of the
FRR. However, based on the information from the IFC evaluation report, some indications of the FRR are
provided in this section. Based on this information, the ICR authors conclude that the actual FRR was
below initial expectations due to (i) later than expected initial disbursements; (ii) slow growth in MEP
lending at the early stages; and (iii) most importantly, exceedingly high NPLs since the onset of the conflict.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
There are several indications that the Project was catalytic and contributed significantly to institutional
development. As noted earlier, banks only began re-entering WBG in 1994, after a nearly 30 year hiatus.
No credit histories had been established with individual or commercial borrowers and poor past
performance in the management of small, informal credit organizations had created a poor credit and
lending culture. A key assumption of the Project was that commercial banks, having competed fiercely for
deposits that had up to that point been retained outside the banking system, would then be seeking new
growth opportunities.
During the course of the project, MEP programs were set up at each participating banks. MEP loan
decision committees were established separately from other bank operations but drew on key personnel
from these departments through established links.  Project management information systems were
established and continued to be well-maintained under the program to enable effective tracking of loans and
for monitoring repayments. This enabled the commercial banks to prepare and submit detailed quarterly
monitoring reports, which, as mentioned in Arab Bank's end of project report, now provide a basis for
strategic thinking within the bank's operations more generally. Branch offices offering services to small
businesses expanded under the program and trained personnel were placed at branch offices with the aim of
growing the program. Decision-making was decentralized to MEP program officers and many MEP credit
officers remain with the programs at their respective banks. Each of the participating MEP banks achieved
profitability in lending to small businesses by the end of 1998, something they were not convinced would
happened prior to the project, and subsequently committed greater resources to targeting this new target
market.
In addition, all three MEP banks indicated that a significant share of their borrowers have obtained second
and third loans. This relationship, established over time, had an important impact in developing a credit
culture, improving the "bankability" of small-scale borrowers in WBG and in furthering the growth of
small businesses.
- 12 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The overarching factor outside the control of implementing agency was the ongoing conflict that began with
the outbreak of the Intifada in WBG in October 2000. This has had a detrimental effect on the Project's
outcome. The eruption of the Intifada and subsequent imposition of closures, curfews and tight movement
restrictions of the Palestinian population brought the economy to a standstill. In 2000, per capita income
declined by 10 percent and by a further 20 percent in the following year. By the middle of 2002,
unemployment stood at just under 50 percent (not including those who stopped seeking employment due to
the contraction of the economy and the resulting decline in economic opportunities). The impact of the
economic crisis had, in turn, its effect on PA finances, as the economy contracted and Israel withheld
clearance revenue that it collects on behalf of the Palestinian Authority (PA). This caused a fiscal crisis in
which the PA was forced to cut back spending dramatically. This fiscal compression took place in the
context of mounting arrears, most of which were owed to Palestinian vendors, contractors and service
providers. As of June 2002, 56 percent of PA arrears (estimated at around US$295 million) were owed to
the private sector, causing an acute liquidity shortage, rising non-performing loans in the banking system,
and increasing cases of insolvency.
Over the period from September 2000 to the present, the private sector share of GDP has declined from 88
percent to 69 percent, with employment losses estimated to be as high as 140,000 workers. In the
manufacturing sector alone, employment in the West Bank has declined by 32 percent, while in Gaza
manufacturers have downsized by nearly 60 percent. A Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS)
survey of 924 establishments indicates that only 11 percent of companies were operating at full capacity in
January 2002, with nearly one third of firms engaged in downsizing operations and 15 percent reporting
their intention of eliminating at least one production line in order to reduce operating costs. In this context,
continued project performance was all but impossible.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
On the whole, the PA has been very committed to the MEP and supportive of the program. Although the
PA did not assume a major role in the Project's implementation, as the three participating commercial
banks were the primary implementing agencies, it is important to note that the PA counterparts, especially
those at the Ministry of Finance, continued to closely monitor the Project. However, at no time did the PA
interfere in lending decision-making, and the three MEP commercial banks were allowed to operate freely
within the Project's guidelines.
One issue that did arise and which was raised with the Palestinian Monetary Authority (PMA) during
successive supervision missions was the licensing of JNB to operate in Gaza. As the regulator of the
banlcing sector, the PMA determined that there were too many banks operating in WBG in general and thus
never approved JNB's request to expand its operations to Gaza. This had the impact of reducing Project
coverage and denied a greater number of Gazans from participating in the program. (See below).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Initially, management at the three banks was cautious and marginally committed to the program. However,
over time and based on performance, this attitude changed, and expansion in branch offices, staffing, and
overall lending furither underscore this finding. One short-coming of the Project was its coverage of the
Palestinian areas. Most lending was concentrated in the West Bank. This was due in part to the reluctance
of the AB to expand its operations in Gaza (arguing that it would first focus on establishing its program in
the West Bank). CBP extended its program to Gaza, but only about one-third of its MEP portfolio was
lent in Gaza. As noted above, JNB, which adopted small enterprise lending as a strategic approach to
- 13 -



developing a niche market, was never authorized by the PMA to expand its operations to Gaza. This
reduced the coverage and potential impact of the program, particularly as JNB was by far the most
effective of the three banks in establishing its lending program. It is worth noting, however, that the
UNRWA offers a large, relatively successful lending program in support of small businesses in Gaza that
specifically targets refugees as beneficiaries.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Financing for technical assistance to the banks had not been secured at project inception, which caused
nearly a one year delay in project implementation. Additionally, training provided to small businesses was
limited in scope and was underfunded. Corrective measures were taken following a Bank-IFC supervision
mission in 1998. However, one of the Project's shortcomings was the limited linkage between training
provided to small businesses that were approved for loans by the MEP banks.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
This ICR rates the Project's sustainability as "Likely". Sustainability of the Project must be considered
both in light of the achievements made in laying the foundation for market-based small business lending in
WBG and in the context of the conflict situation that has prevailed for more than two years. On the positive
side, significant progress had been achieved by the Project's mid-term (June 2000) in terms of (i) increasing
the volume of lending to small businesses by commercial banks (MEP actually exceeded its mid-term
performance indicator in terns of the overall volume of new lending to small businesses), (ii) building the
capacity of commercial banks in applying cash-flow and character-based appraisal techniques, in
establishing dedicated small business units with trained/dedicated loan officers, and in developing intensive
client relationships, and (iii) demonstrating the commercial viability of small business lending (all three
MEP participating banks achieved profitability within two years on their small business lending
operations). The fact that these developments took place at established commercial banks operating on
market principles, further underscores the likely sustainability of the MEP in the absence of the crisis.
It is important to note that the demonstration effect at MEP banks also had a ripple effect on the market as
a whole. For instance, FATEN began introducing a term lending program in early 2000 with larger scale
loans as a means of scaling up and diversifying its product/service offerings. According to FATEN
management, this decision was influenced in part by the need to increase operating revenues to cover its
costs and because the initial phase of term lending by MEP indicated the potential for growth in that market
segment.
However, the Project did not operate in a vacuum, and the ongoing conflict in WBG, as noted elsewhere in
this report, has clearly affected the performance of the MEP. Similarly, the extended nature of the conflict
is also likely to impact the sustainability of MEP. Although it is clearly the case that participating MEP
banks are keen on continuing with small business lending, as stated during project close-out interviews,
their interest cannot overcome an environment in which the economy has contracted and non-performing
loans are the norm rather than the exception.
Longer-term sustainability of lending to small enterprises is dependent on a number of critical factors.
First and foremost is the need for a resolution of the now 26-month-old conflict As noted earlier, the
continuing violence, tightening of intemal and external closures, and imposition of curfews and mobility
restrictions on Palestinian residents and businesses in WBG have forced many businesses to close and have
imposed significant transaction costs on those businesses that have managed to continue operating.
Without a return to normalcy, including a cessation of violence and confidence-building measures that will
-14-



not only result in short-term peace and stability but also provide greater certainty and predictability about the
future course of affairs in the Palestinian territories, the development gains achieved under the MEP will not
have a meaningful longer term impact.
6.2  Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At this point in time, WBG is clearly not an environment in which a market-based operation can continue to
function effectively, as demonstrated in other sections of this report.  However, several important
institutional development changes have taken place. These changes include the accumulated institutional
experience with profitable small business lending (prior to the crisis), and bank recognition of the
bankability of small businesses.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. I  Lending:
Performance by the Bank was determined to be "Unsatisfactory". While IFC took the lead.role in preparing
the project, the Bank's timely provision of financing complemented the overall financing package. While the
overall project design was determined to be sound, the project's readiness for implementation was
jeopardized by the lack of financing for two of the project's three components, both of which were to be
financed by other donors in parallel.
7.2  Supervision:
Performance by the Bank was determined to be "Satisfactory". Supervision was intensive initially given the
weak capacity of the institutions being assisted and, in part, to secure the financing needed for technical
assistance that was not in place at the project's inception. In this regard, the team's efforts were quite
exhaustive and ultimately successful. In addition, appropriate and very prompt guidance was provided to the
implementing agencies, particularly after the crisis began in September 2000. Supervision missions were
undertaken jointly with IFC and provide a potential model for effective Bank-IFC collaboration in joint
projects in the future. Regarding organization of supervision missions, staffing continuity and skill mix,
frequency of missions and time spent in the field, and relations with the borrower all reflect favorably on the
supervision team. This Project was determined to have an overall quality of supervision of "1" by QAG in
its July 1999 report. As determined by QAG in its Quality of Supervision Assessment, "This is a well
supervised project, which is giving the needed close guidance and oversight." This ICR confirms QAG's
assessment in this regard.
7.3  Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was determined to be "Satisfactory". Although this is a joint Bank/IDA project,
IFC has taken the lead most of the time. The relationship between the IFC and IDA has been good and
productive. The project was visited by the joint teams of both institutions twice a year. IFC staff have also
been in continuous contact with the participating banks. The supervision missions were proactive in
addressing key issues and making recommendations, with subsequent follow up by IFC staff. Following the
start of the crisis, IFC intensified its supervision and asked for monthly reports from the banks. These were
discussed with the IDA team and dialogue/joint actions were coordinated. QAG rated the quality of
supervision as highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4  Preparation:
Performance in preparing the project is rated "Satisfactory". MEP participating banks were chosen on the
basis of their willingness to develop a business of lending to small businesses, their financial position, and
their management. In project preparation (and during supervision), each of the selected banks provided its
financial data in a timely fashion and agreed to relatively strong conditions for participation.
- 15 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Performance by the PA is rated "Satisfactory". While much of the responsibility for implementation of the
project fell to the three commercial banks that provided financing to sub-borrowers, the PA (represented by
the Ministry of Finance) recognized the need to expand the product and service offerings of the banking
sector in the local market. As such, it agreed to share in the risk of this Project, but also not to interfere
with the market-based approach that was adopted. MEP participating banks were left free to established
the terms of on-lending to sub-borrowers in an arrangement that was competitive and proved to follow the
market One area where the PA could have been more responsive to project needs is in the matter of
licensing JNB to establish operations in Gaza. Here, as noted elsewhere, the matter was raised with the
PMA by joint Bank-IFC supervision missions but no change in policy took place.  This issue
notwithstanding, the PA was generally very supportive of the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The MEP participating banks played a critical role in this operation. Indeed, without their commitment and
dedication to the Project the results could have been quite different.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated "Satisfactory". Each of the three banks in the project has
established a small business lending department and has indicated that it would continue lending in this area
after the current conflict situation is resolved.
8. Lessons Learned
The key lessons learned through the MEP are the following:
(i) The first key lesson is that the MEP experience demonstrated that when a project has mutually
reinforcing components, it is critical to have financing for all components secured at the project's
inception. This is particularly the case where beginning implementation of one or more components
is dependent on completing or having substantially implemented other components. While the
structure of the Project with its three mutually reinforcing components (onlending to
microenterprises, TA to banks, TA to microenterprises) was sound in design, the sequencing of the
components was not carefully thought through so as to enable the TA components to be linked
effectively with the onlending component. In particular, the technical assistance provided to small
businesses commenced one year prior to the beginning of onlending (July 1997 and September 1998
respectively), thus preventing more effective targeting of potential MEP borrowers with needed
technical assistance. In addition, the launch of the TA component providing training to participating
banks was initially delayed due to unavailability of financing for this component at the project's
inception. The TA to microenterprises, however, could not be postponed due to contractual
obligations, and many borrowers could not take full advantage of technical support. Coordination in
the delivery of assistance therefore needs to be better sequenced in the future to ensure that training
and counseling services provided to small enterprises reinforce and support effective small business
lending programs.
(ii) The second key lesson is that, in a project largely managed by the private sector, explicit
arrangement would need to be made with the borrower in order to monitor social indicators, e.g. job
creation. Such an arrangement would have allowed better assessment of the public good element of
the Project. This arrangement also would have ensured greater objectivity in assessing performance.
While the Project design importantly relied on a commercially-driven, sustainable arrangement, it can
be argued that commercial banks had little incentive to collect or intensively monitor the job creation
-16 -



data, as this was not of direct benefit to them.
(iii) Finally, it is essential to ensure full management commitment from the start when considering a small
local financial intermediary for participation in such a project.  Comiinitment of the senior
management of the participating banks was not fully secured at the outset. It is evident from
supervision reports that the project team held several discussions with the banks to reiterate the
importance of management commitment to the Project. The supervisions went as far as insisting that
further disbursements be conditional on actions by management such as developing a strategy for the
Project and the assignment of a full time program coordinator. Although the management at
participating banks was cooperative with the Bank Group team, they could not devote sufficient time
from the outset as they were often distracted by other bank business. For example, it was not until
August 2000 (two years after lending had started), that CBP developed a strategy for the Project and
assigned a full time staffperson to manage the project. As a result, the banks did not take full
advantage of TA offered to them. This was especially true for CBP as the management of the other
two banks showed a more serious commitment from the start.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Due to political volatility in the local environment, as well as movement restrictions and related security
issues, a stakeholder workshop could not be convened to assess overall partner comments. However,
interviews were conducted with participating MEP bank officials, the Ministry of Finance and with a
selected number of beneficiaries. Borrower comments are attached in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 17-






Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatoriMatrix                   Projected in last PSR'              Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Increases in micro-enterprise investment 3500 new jobs                 1400 at EOP; 1100 at midterm
and employment
(b) Increases in sustainable micro-enterprise $15 million in new lending  $12.08 million in new lending
lending by the banking sector.
(c) Improvement in micro4ending techniques Banks committed to continue lending after  Banks continue to apply new micro-lending
(i.e. less emphasis on collateral and more  EOP based on new lending criteria  techniques.
weight to cash flow/ character-based lending.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Overall amount of onlending and portion of                                A total of $12.08 million was onlent by the
IDA onlending                                                             three participating MEP banks, of which
$2.19 million provided through TFGWB
credit.
Number of loans approved and disbursed                                     1133 loans approved; 1056 loans disbursed
under MEP.                                                                 by EOP.
Number of branch offices providing                                         19 branches offering MEP microenterprise
microenterprise lending services                                          lending services: AB (9), JNB (5), CBP (5)
by EOP.
Management Information Systems                                             All three banks have established sound MIS
established at 3 particpating MEP banks                                    systems.
Number of employees dedicated on full or                                   40 MEP bank employees involved on part or
part-Ume basis to microenteprise lending                                   full-Ume basis as program officers or loan
program                                                                    officers: AB (12), JNB (21), CBP (7) by
EOP.
End of project
- 18 -






Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ mnillion equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Component                     US$ million  US$ million
A. Onlending (Sub-Loans)                           20.00         12.08           60.4
B. Technical Assistance to MEP Banks                2.00          2.40            100
C. Technical Assistance to Microenterprises         1.00          0.25            25
Total Baseline Cost                                23.00         14.73
Total Project Costs            23.00          14.73
Total Financing Required            23.00          14.73  _
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
_______ ____________   (0.00)  (0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.12        0.12
.______________________  (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         2.88        2.88
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Onlending (Subloans)      0.00         0.00         5.00        15.00        20.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)      (5.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00   .     0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00         5.00         18.00       23.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Othe         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00        0.00         0.12         0.12
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00        2.53         2.53
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Onlending (Subloans)      0.00         0.00         2.19        9.89        12.08
19 -



(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.19)         (0.00)        (2.19)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.00          2.19           12.54         14.73
1__ _   (0.00)      (0.00)         (2.19)        (0.00)        (2.19)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes onlending of subloans to sub-borrowers by MEP participating banks from pooled funds comprised of 37.5%
from commercial banks, 37.5% from IFC, and 25% from TFGWB Credit on lent to MEP banks by the Palestinian
Authority.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
:; 1 E                         |                              | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate      [    ActualfLatest Estimate              o
IDA       Govt.     CoF.       IDA       Govt.     CoF.    IDA     Govt.  CoF.
A. Onlending (Subloans)   5.00                15.00     2.19                 9.89    43.8           65.9
B. Technical Assistance to                    2.00                           2.40                   120.0
MIEP Banks
C. Technical Assistance to                    1.00                           0.25                   25.0
Microenterprises
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic costs and benefits of the project were not carried out in the original project design. The
Project's economic rate of return, however, would undoubtably have been negative at this time due to the
force majeur conditions that affected the project significantly.
- 21 -






Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performa ce,Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists,- I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Devlopment
Month/Year     Count          Specialty    -Pro'gress                     Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/1996                          IFC Identified/Prepared Project
(No IDA staff involved in
identification/preparation.)
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/30/96                     1   Task Manager (1)
IFC Task Manager (1)
09/13/96                     1   Task Manager (1)
IFC Task Manager (1)
Supervision
01/05/1998                   2   Task Manager                        S             S
IFC Task Manager
07/22/1998                   2   Task Manager                        S             S
IFC Task Manager
11/27/1998                   2   Task Manager                        S             S
IFC Task Manager
06/18/1999                   3   Task Manager (2)                    S             S
Investment Officer (1)
12/09/1999                   4   Task Manager                        S             S
Projects Assistant
Investment Officer
Task Manager (IFC)
06/08/2000                   5   Team Leader, Sr. PSD Spec.          S             S
Operations Analyst
Sr. Financial Sector Spec.
Investment Officer
Consultant
02/23/2001                   2   Task Team Leader                    S             S
IFC Consultant
08/30/2001                   4   PSD Spec./TTL                       S             S
IFC Consultant
In-coming TTL
Operations Analyst
02/16/2002                   3   Task Team Leader
- 22 -



IFC Consultant
Operations Analyst
ICR
8/20/2002                   4    Task Team Leader                                S
Urban Economist
Financial Analyst
Young Professional
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                 15
Supervision                               38                         270
ICR                                        6                          25
Total                                                                310
-23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                       O H OSUOM O N        * NA
OSector Policies                      O H  OSUOM O N O NA
O Physical                            O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
3 Financial                           O H OSU*M O N        O NA
* Institutional Development           0 H O SUO M 0 N      0 NA
C] Environmental                      O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Gender                        O H OSUOM O N        * NA
El Other (Please specify)       O H O SU OM     O N  * NA
F Private sector development          0 H O SU *M O N      0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H O SU O M O N     * NA
O Other (Please specify).             O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
- 24 -






Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           OHS OS       *U    OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
E Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
-25-






Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Borrower Contribution to the ICR (Annex 8)
2. Consultant Final Report on Microenterprise Training Program (Annex 9)
3. Consolidated Project Monitoring Table (12/98-6/02) (Annex 10)
4. Portfolio at Risk Table (Annex 11)
5. Bank-IFC Project Supervision Reports (Project Files)
6. MIEP Bank Quarterly Progress Reports (Project Files).
7. Microenterprise Project Memorandum of the President and Technical Annex (Project Files)
8. West Bank and Gaza Strategic Framework for Financial Sector Development Paper, December 1995,
(Project Files)
9. Quality Assurance Group, Quality of Supervision Assessment, July 29, 1999, (Project Files)
- 26 -






Additional Annex 8: Contribution of the Borrower
PaIestthlnon Nat lwual Ai.tY                                             1"      .o;I64iIA L
Mlnstx-y of lViunico                                          L i_.JIjI ;
Offiec oJ the Minister               t     ,                    _;     1
Nao.: -                  g/'s                                              -- -  - ry,200
Ttv   Mr. I lamidil R. Alavi,
Senicor Nivolo Sctor 1)cvolopment Spoialiust
World L2nrk
911bject.   IiipIc:inentalion Cornpltlcou Report (ICR) - Microonterprise Project
Door Mr, Alavi,
plksc find enclosod our conitribution to tho ICR - Microcnatmprisc Projvct. lThe
cornribution im a result of tle intemal discussion wilhin MOI staff and agret by in':. I
hopu Ihtt itio contribution meals your anticipation. Meanwhile, iryou hivc anyqustions
andi/or comnmernfi. ploaso do not hcaitalo o corntact US.
Sinceroly,
Salarn FayyBrd
Minister otinauce
;;.T* T     2cl :0-826168 rax: 08282069%                       08.2*20696 i L,4U O8-2fli58: aA;  - ;;
I.O.Nsox: 4007- AtuU-Minadr cmr4iiit-Gaa                      B-1Dall: chmQ; [MnCLCOM






Additional Annex 8. Implementation Completion Report -- Contribution of the Borrower
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Microenterprise Project
Ministry of Finance (Borrower) Contribution
Project Objective:  To provide a sustainable source of long-term financing to microenterprises
in the West Bank and Gaza
Project Effectiveness Date:          November 1997
Targeted Completion Date:            January 2002
Closing Date:                        July 2002
Acting Administrator of the Trust Fund:  World Bank
Following a review of the original Project design and its implementation and impact over
the past six years, the Ministry of Finance (MoF) rates the Project's overall performance
satisfactory and the outcome partially successful. This rating would likely have been higher had
the situation in West Bank and Gaza (WBG) been stable and allowed this market-based
instrument to operate in accordance with its original design. The re-emergence of conflict in
September 2000 and on-going instability in WBG over the past two years, however, undermined
the Project's ability to achieve all of its stated development objectives, as further detailed in the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
In reviewing the Project, it is clear that there were two distinct periods in which its
performance should be considered. The initial phase - project inception through September 2000
when the crisis began, and the second phase covering the period September 2000 to July 2002
when the Project was closed. The Project's Midterm Review, which took place in June 2000,
identifies a number of very positive developments in the Project since inception, including
substantial growth in the MEP lending portfolios of all participating banks, new full and part time
employment opportunities (fairly consistent with performance indicators) generated by
microenterprises benefiting from financing through the Project, expansion of the program to a
greater number of branch offices and an increase in staff dedicated to the Project, among other
positive indicators.
The second phase of the Project was clearly impacted by the outbreak of violence and the
imposition of closures, curfews, movement restrictions and security procedures in the Palestinian
territories that severed many businesses from their natural market base, prevented loan officers
from making routine follow-up visits to borrowers, particularly those in rural areas, and prevented
businesses from reaching bank offices to make timely payments on their loans. In addition, the
- 27 -



heightened security situation deterred new investment (as banks indicated a dramatic drop in loan
applications for bankable projects) and the overall economic contraction reduced domestic
demand for the products and services of MEP borrowers, as over 45 percent of the labor force is
now unemployed and over 50 percent of Palestinian households have descended below the
poverty line of $2 per person/day. In view of the significant impact of these exogenous factors on
the Project's performance, most of the learning gained from this Project review must necessarily
focus on the pre-crisis period if any meaningful conclusions are to be drawn.
Overall Summary of Performance
The design of the Microenterprise Project was reviewed and determined to be sound and
an effective instrument during the pre-crisis period. It combined three important elements, linking
financing with technical assistance to banks and microenterprises. Despite a slow start to the
Project, mainly due to lack of financing for the bank technical assistance component, performance
picked up rapidly between September-October 1998 when lending began at the three banks.
However, as noted below, with the beginning of the crisis, portfolio in arrears increased sharply.
Lending Summary for the Three MEP Banks
MEP Participating   Number of   Amount disbursed  Portfolio in arrears
Bank              Loans approved    (USD)              as
% of total portfolio
Arab Bank              374          2,794,500         68%
Commercial Bank of     200          2,389,000         76%
Palestine                                      I                I
Jordan National Bank   559          6,853,882         73%
Total                 1133         12,037,382
A Review of the Performance of Participating Banks
All three banks expressed a keen interest in the Project at the outset with the presumable
aim of expanding business opportunities in a competitive banking environment. While the focus
of many banks had been largely on competing for customer deposits since their re-entry to WBG
or establishment of new operations there beginning in 1995, MEP provided the opportunity to
extend services to a largely untapped consumer, namely small businesses, that lacked collateral
but that had viable businesses or new investment ideas.
Considering the data presented in the table below, it is clear that the Jordan National Bank
(JNB) made a ful]-fledged effort to take advantage of the MEP facility, utilizing three-quarters of
the financing made available through the IDA contribution. JNB sought to target the untapped
potential of small business lending by specifically targeting rural borrowers as a major segment of
its lending portfolio, relying on its branch network and making a dedicated commitment to
staffing its program accordingly.
- 28 -



Utilization of IDA Financing by MEP Participating Banks
On the closing date of 31st July 2002, the breakdown of disbursed and undisbursed
balance at the participating banks was as follows:
MEP Participating  Sub-Loan      Disbursed     Undisbursed
Bank               Allocation  Amount (USD)   Amount (USD)    Disbursed
Arab Bank          2,000,000     406,423        1,593,577       21%
Commercial Bank of  1,000,000    297,675        702,325         30%
Palestine
Jordan National Bank  2,000,000  1,482,739.75  517,260.25        75%     1
Total              5,000,000    2.186,837.75   2,813,162.75     44%
Quasi-Equity Participation by IFC
Bank
1. Arab Bank PLC                     (AB)         US$   3,000,000
2. Commercial Bank of Palestine      (CBP)        US$    1,500,000
3. Jordan National Bank               (JNB)       US$   3,000,000
The re-emergence of conflict in September 2000 forced many borrowers to close
operations, make partial or no payments, or to restructure their loans in an effort to wait out the
crisis. MEP banks began retrenching in their efforts to reach out to new borrowers. Frequently
they reverted back to relying on collateral based lending based on the uncertainties in the business
environment. Over time, loans in arrears began graduating into longer brackets. Within the first
year after the crisis began, all MEP banks began rescheduling loans in varying degrees. While
follow-up intensified, it was in many instances hampered by the inability of many loan officers to
reach borrowers due to closures, curfews and movement restrictions.
Some NGO programs, such as that of FATEN, tended to adapt better initially to the crisis
than the formal banking sector. We assume that this was because of the greater flexibility of their
program, such as the arrangement in which loan officers were able to collect repayments directly
from borrowers who could not reach FATEN offices. Such arrangements are not allowed within
the formal banking sector, as a means of safeguarding the interest of borrowers. However, as the
crisis proved to be quite contracted, the eventual collapse of the Palestinian economy meant that
repayment difficulties due to movement restrictions were superceded by borrowers' inability to
repay loans.  At the present time, no small-business lending program is being operated
successfully in WBG.
Institutional Development
To fully appreciate the gains made, at least initially, through the MEP, it is important to
understand the context in which the Project began. Many of the Palestinian credit programs that
operated in WBG prior to MEP were funded exclusively by donors. They were often perceived
as offering "soft loans" where credit approval was viewed as being influenced by political or
personal considerations. Consequently, repayment rates were extremely low, funds decapitalized
- 29 -



rapidly and these facilities proved to be for the most part unsustainable.
The new institutional environment created with the re-entry of commercial banks to WBG
offered a unique opportunity to re-initiate lending to small-scale businesses on an entirely new
basis. Technical assistance provided to the participating banks was by all accounts a very needed
and highly effective way of introducing banks to new lending techniques and methods of reaching
a new clientele. As recognized in joint Bank-MOF review exercises, this fostered the beginning of
a new lending culture characterized by professional small-business lending services based on
cash-flow and character-based appraisal and a marked improvement in repayment rates. With
rapidly increasing deposits beginning in 1995, MEP also offered commercial banks opportunities
to channel financing back into the Palestinian economy.
MEP was also the first program to introduce term lending to small businesses in WBG,
enabling them to leverage their resources and take advantage of new business opportunities as
never before. Carpenter workshops in Bethlehem were able to purchase new equipment to
improve the quality of their olive wood crafts sold to visiting tourists; women entrepreneurs took
out loans to establish food kitchens serving students at newly opened universities; bakers
purchased ovens and refrigeration equipment to produce fresh baked goods to satisfy the tastes of
Palestinians returning from the diaspora. Most small-scale businesses had relied previously on
savings, borrowing from family members or relatives, or obtaining very short term loans from
money changers at usurious interest rates to start their businesses prior to MEP.
Main Conclusions
o     The project as a whole is an excellent one, but the timing and the current situation
prevented it from reaching its full potential.
o     All three MEP banks indicated their interest in resuming microenterprise lending on a
larger scale once hostilities cease and the business environment improves. Arab Bank has
prepared MEP promotional materials which it intends to use to reinvigorate the MEP program
once hostilities diminish; Jordan National Bank has made a strategic decision to focus on
microenterprise lending as a business practice; Commercial Bank of Palestine indicated that its
MEP portfolio generally outperformed other commercial lending during the crisis period in terms
of portfolio quality. All three MEP banks achieved profitability in the MEP program prior to the
crisis. These indications all support the conclusion that MEP has had a lasting and likely
sustainable impact on the attitude of banks toward small-scale lending.
o     MEP coverage of the Palestinian areas could have been better, as Gaza was the beneficiary
of only a minor share of lending, largely due to the physical separation of Gaza and West Bank.
This was due in part to the gradual expansion strategy of Arab Bank which never reached Gaza
and the inability of Jordan National Bank to enter the Gaza market. Of the three banks, only
Commercial Bank of Palestine extended loans in Gaza under MEP. Based on the MEP
experience, it would be worth considering a bank that is headquartered in Gaza or has significant
branch offices there to improve MEP coverage
- 30 -



o     MOF was at times constrained in its ability to more thoroughly monitor project
performance. It would have been to the project's advantage to have a coordination unit
established at MOF to more actively address MEP participating bank needs, as well as to provide
a sounding board for MEP borrowers and to collect relevant data as is often the case when a
Project Coordination Unit is established under other Bank-financed projects.
0     MOF appreciated the technical support and coordination provided by World Bank Group
staff and commends the project team for agreeing to leave the facility open as we awaited a
resolution of the conflict, which regrettably never happened.
o     MOF would like to state its interest in establishing a similar facility in the future, following
the end of violence and political instability, particularly as a means of reviving the economy,
recognizing that small businesses are likely to be the first to begin reinvesting in new businesses in
the immediate post-crisis period.
- 31 -






Additional Annex 9. Consultant's Final Report on the Microenterprise Training Program
Final Report
The Small Business Training Program
West Bank and Gaza Strip
Submitted to:
The Netherlands Development Finace Company (FMO)
Koningskade 40
P.O. Box 93060
2509 AB, The Hague
The Netherlands
Massar Associates
P.O. Box 2439
Al-Kawthar Street
Ramallah
Tel: 02-295-2818
- 32 -



EmORa. infoamassar.com
April 2000
*33 -



Distribution of workshops
Massar Associates conducted 21 workshops in different areas in the West Bank distributed as
follows
Total number of workshops
25 ,!-    3
20- . 
10-. Z 
sp~       i >&7ssX     r 7X                         it z!/
Total number of workshops delivered by Massar
No. of          No. of
Area           Participants    Workshops
Jenin                      41              3
Ramallah                  112              11
Jerusalem                  29              2
Bethlehem                  17              1
TTulkarim                 17               1
Qalqilia                   14              1
Salfeet                    14              1
Nablus                     15              1
Total                     261             21
- 34 -



Total Number of Participants in total workshops is 261 from different locations and different
business sectors and also from both genders.
Distribution of participants in relation to Gender
Gender       No. of         %
_ participants
Male           206          79%
Female          55          21%
Total        261        100.00%
Female
21%
Male
79%
Distribution of participants according to their sectors
Sector       No. of        %
Participants
Trade             92        35.25%
Service           88        33.72%
Manufacturer      81        31.03%
Total         261      100.00%
- 35 -



Three sample case studies of past participants in training who received loans from the
Micro Enterprises Lending Programs in Palestine
Case I
Name                     Jamal Kieleh
Loan Size                $20,000
Participation Date       February, 99
Business                Manufacture of Wooden Furniture
Mr. Kieleh participated in the "Improve Your Business" training workshop that took place in
Ramallah. After completing the workshop, he applied for a loan from the Micro Enterprises
Lending Project implemented by the Jordan National Bank in Ramallah. Using the loan Mr.
Kieleh renewed all the machinery used in the production of fumiture. "After taking the IYB
training course, it has become easier for me to think in a systematic way and utilize the
information in the (Improve Your Business) curriculum", said Mr. Kieleh.
Case 2
Name                    Mutlaq Tumaizi
Loan size                $4,000
Participation Date      June, 98
Business                Poultry
"Costing, financial analyses and business planning were the most interesting subjects during the
workshop, I really enhanced my abilities in management after the workshop and I am able to
better allocate the loan", said Mr. Tumaizi. Expanding the business by adding a new production
line was the main purpose of taking out the loan. Mr. Tumaizi was able to procure additional
machine to increase production capacity.
Case 3
Name                     Dr. Nahid Akir
Loan Size                $25,000
Participation Date       April, 99
Business                 Medical Clinic
Dr. Nahid has been operating her diabetes treatment clinic in Ramallah long time ago. Dr. Nahid
realized the need to cope with the rapid technological changes that are taking place recently. "I
decided to take out a loan in order to access liquidity that would help in conducting significant
changes in business. I have learned this from IYB". Said Dr. Nahid.
-36-



Success st$r$es
Ammar Ammar
Mr. Ammar participated in IYB training workshop as the general director of Al-Manarah radio
station. After completing the course, he decided to expand his business by purchasing new
machinery to increase the frequency range. Nowadays, Mr. Ammar's radio station is one of the
strongest stations with one of the highest coverage rates.
Idris Abu-Tair
Mr. Abu-Tair owns a health club in the Ramallah area and decided to register in the IYB training
course to improve his managerial skills and abilities. When contacting him, Mr. Abu-Tair stated
that the curriculum in which he was exposed to caused him to change his thinking towards
improving his business. He is currently looking to transfer the health club into a new larger place
and at the same time investing $50,000 to open up a new restaurant.
Samneer Yassie,s
Mr. Yassien holds a Bachelor degree in Journalism. He started his work as assistant director for a
local radio station in Ramallah area. Year after he completed the IYB training course, he decided
to operate his own radio station, and its now regarded as one of the most competitive stations.
Wael Abdulsalam
Mr. Abdulsalam owns a hygienic supply store and had problems in the quality of goods he
received from his supplier. Upon completion of the training, he learned how to conduct buying
more efficiently. Mr. Abdulsalam now is visiting many hygienic supply exhibitions and deal with
many different suppliers which has enabled him to reconsider his marketing and planming
approach.
-37 -



Summary of the Impact Evaluation Survey
1. Objective
The study evaluates a sample of Massar's trained business people in order to ensure that the
project is moving in the intended direction and reaching its objectives. The study evaluates three
areas: change in behavior, impact on business, and relevance of training modules.
2.    Methodology
The survey was accomplished through a field survey of a random sample of 30 trainees. A
questionnaire was prepared and was completed by two Massar staff and the trainees at their
businesses.
Table (1): Distribution of businesses according to sector
Sector              Number of Interviewees             Gender
Trade                        10                       7M&3F
Services                      12                      9M&3F
Manufacturing                    8                          8 M
Total                        30                      24 M & 6 F
3. Results and General Impressions
The results of the survey clearly illustrate that in several aspects the training program has affected
the majority of the trainees. Moreover, several of them have already commenced setting future
plans for their businesses in accordance with the management principles they were exposed to in
the different training modules.
Interestingly, the majority of the trainees interviewed had generated new ideas during the training
and upon completion started modifying and improving the businesses especially through applying
what they learnt about calculating total costs, finding and selecting alternative buying channels
and keeping closer control over their stock.
Regarding the relevance of the trainng curriculum, the great majority of trainees considered the
training modules relevant to their work since they were able to apply the different components of
the training to their businesses. At the same time some of them talked about the challenges that
hinder the growth of their businesses and these were: their ability to keep the business growing
against the surrounding economic obstacles as well as their ability to project annual revenues due
to the unpredictability of the area. Such issues, in addition to several others they mentioned such
as doing a business plan, setting prices, expanding requirements among others will be tackled
- 38 -



during the counseling, which Massar will be conducting within the coming months.
The following section presents the results of the survey. It describes the important changes in the
trainees' behavior as a result of the training course, impact of the training on the business itself
and the relevance of the training modules to the trainees. The results are depicted in the following
tables:
Did the businessperson try to resolve any problem mentioned during training or in the
application form?
The following table depicts the number of trainees that have tried to resolve the problems he or
she mentioned during training as well as those who have not or only partly tried to resolve the
problems:
Table (2): Problem Resolution
Answer             Number            Percentage
Yes                               22               74%
Partly                              E               26%
No                 _                  _
Total_            _         30              100%
As shown in the table the majority of the trainees have attempted to solve their business problems
using the training modules methodologies. However, some of them did not deal with the
problems for reasons below.
l[f the answer was partly or no, then what were the reasons?
O     Time constraints. The trainees' daily routine is very crammed that they do not have time
dedicated for planning and long term problem solving.
o     Training material did not offer any solutions to the mentioned problems. The trainees
mentioned that they are facing problems that were not addressed during the training, such as their
inability to assess the demand for new products as well as difficulties in production management
issues.
o     Personal reasons which the trainee would not declare.
Can any effects of the implemented solutions be seen?
The following table indicates the number of businesses on which the effects of the implemented
solutions can be seen:
- 39 -



Table (3): Effects of the Implemented Solutions
Answer                 Number              Percentage
Yes                             21                  68%
No                               9                  32%
Total                            30                 100%
What were the implementations?
*     New pricing strategies based on the training costing material.
*     New buying channels other than the old one.
*     Taking risk by opening up new projects. A new internet coffee shop was started by one of
trainees who originally worked in the field of stone and marble.
*     Bringing in new accounting systems to control the whole process of financial analyses.
*     New strategy for the division of labor (who is in charge of what).
*     Stock control records. A number of the surveyed businesses started keeping stock control
records as they have appreciated their benefits after the workshop, especially in the buying
process. Others who used to keep them before attending IYB have reorganized them according
to IYB suggestions.
Did the businessperson get any new ideas for the management of the business during the
IYB training course?
The following table presents the number of trainees who generated new ideas for the management
of their businesses during the workshop:
Table (4): Generation of New Ideas
Answer                 Number              Percentage
Yes                             25                  84%
No                                5                  16%
Total                            30                 100%
If the answer was yes, then what were their new ideas?
*     The vast majority of the participants have stated that their business mentality has become
structured around the different training modules, which gave them ideas on how to improve the
business.
*     Enhanced their self-confidence and willingness to take risks, which generated new
investment ideas as well as ideas for expansion of the existing business and products.
*     Ideas for applying new buying techniques.
-40 -



o     Several trainees have got ideas for starting new projects. They have stated that it is not
feasible to expand their current businesses therefore, they have started thinking of new projects.
Has any new investments been done in the business after the training?
The following table shows the number of trainees who have done new investmnents in their
businesses after attending the workshop:
-41 -



Table (5): New Investments in the Businesses
Answer                Number             Percentage
Yes                            14                 47%
No                             16      -           53%
Total                           30                100%
Is the businessperson planning to do any new investments in the business?
The following table depicts the number of the trainees who are planning to do investments in their
businesses in the future:
Table (6): Investments in the Future
Answer                Number              Percentage
Yes                            17                  58%
No                              13                 42%
Total                           30                100%
Has the business person recommended the training to other businesses person?
The following table presents the number of trainees that have recommended the training modules
to be taken by other businesspersons.
Table (7): number of participants who recommended training to other businesspersons
Answer                 Number                Percentage
Yes                                30               100%
No                                  0                0%
Total                               30              100%
4. Conclusions
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of the training on the participants in terms of
the change in their behavior, impact on the business and the relevance of the training modules to
their situations.
A total of 30 businesses, which corresponds roughly to 11.5% of the total number of trainees,
were surveyed. According to the results obtained, the survey generally concludes that the
-42 -



participants have been affected positively by the program. Effects of the training are seen in: a)
changes in the strategies the businesspeople followed mainly in costing, buying, and stock control.
b) It is also clear that the participants have become more confident in their abilities to manage
since many participants either have already expanded or thinking of expansion and c) all that
suggests that the training is relevant to our target group.
Only one person stated that the training was irrelevant to his business because he thought he
needed a more advanced course.
-43-












Reporit No.:       25502
Type:     ;CR



