Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF024100
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Microenterprise Project)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank)
Dated April 14, 1997
TF024100
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated, April 14, 1997, between PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza and 
West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as 
amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3, of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International 
Development Association (the Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on October 
12, 1995, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of ninety million 
dollars ($90,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the net income of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the West Bank);
(B)
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter alia, sets 
out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank (the 
Interim Agreement); 
(C)
under the Interim Agreement, the parties thereto agreed to the 
establishment of a Palestinian Interim Self-Governing Authority (the Palestinian 
Authority) consisting of an elected council (the Palestinian Council) and the Ra’ees 
of the Executive Authority of the Palestinian Council; 
Page  2
(D)
Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestinian Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases 
described thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority (PA).
(E)
the PA has requested the Administrator to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project);
(F)
Parts A (i) and B (i) of the Project will be carried out by the Arab Bank 
PLC (AB), Parts A (ii) and B (ii) of the Project will be carried out by the Commercial 
Bank of Palestine (CBP) and Parts A (iii) and B (iii) of the Project will be carried 
out by the Jordan National Bank (JNB), all with the assistance of the Borrower and, as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to AB, CBP and JNB the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(G)
the International Finance Corporation (IFC) intends to provide loans in 
an amount equivalent to (i) $3,000,000 to AB, (ii) $1,500,000 to CBP, and (iii) 
$3,000,000 to JNB, to assist in financing the Project on terms and conditions set 
forth in Segregated Account Agreements (the IFC Agreements) to be entered into between 
IFC and each of AB, CBP and JNB respectively; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of the 
PA, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Respective 
Project Agreements (as this term is hereafter defined);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Palestinian Economic Council for 
Development and Reconstruction, dated September 7, 1994, relating to the Emergency 
Rehabilitation Project  (TF 026066 GZ), with the following modifications thereto (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories;  or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge 
of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Arab Bank PLC” or “AB” means the branches of the Arab Bank PLC in the 
West Bank and Gaza which have been licensed to operate therein on May 31, 1930;
(b)
“Commercial Bank of Palestine” or “CBP” means the Commercial Bank of 
Palestine which has been licensed to operate in the West Bank and Gaza on June 20, 
1994;
(c)
“Jordan National Bank” or “JNB” means the branches of the Jordan National 
Bank in the West Bank and Gaza which have been licensed to operate therein on October 
22, 1992;
(d)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of AB, Parts A (i) and 
B (i) of the Project, in respect of CBP, Parts A (ii) and B (ii) of the Project and in 
respect of JNB, Parts A (iii) and B (iii) of the Project;
Page  3
(e)
“Respective Charter” means (i) in respect of AB, the charter of AB dated 
May 21, 1930; (ii) in respect of CBP, the charter of CBP dated October 22, 1992; and 
(iii) in respect of JNB, the charter of JNB dated August 31, 1955, all as amended to 
the date of this Agreement;
(f)
“Respective Statement of Policy” means: (i) in respect of AB, the 
statement of lending policy as adopted by AB’s Board of Directors; (ii) in respect of 
CBP, the statement of lending policy as adopted by CBP’s Board of Directors on July 4, 
1996; and (iii) in respect of JNB, the statement of lending policy as adopted by JNB’s 
Board of Directors on July 6, 1995;
(g)
“Participating Bank” means each of AB, CBP and JNB, and “Participating 
Banks” means, collectively, AB, CBP and JNB;
(h)
"Microenterprise" means a privately owned enterprise established and 
operating in the West Bank and/or Gaza which employs less than ten (10) workers and to 
which a Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan; 
(i)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating 
Bank in part out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Microenterprise for an Investment 
Project;
(j)
“Investment Project” means a specific development project to be carried 
out by a Microenterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(k)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(l)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the PA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term shall include all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement; 
(m)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means any agreement to be entered into 
between the PA (on behalf of the Borrower) and a Participating Bank pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term shall include all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(n)
“AB Project Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Administrator and AB, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term shall include all schedules and agreements supplemental to the AB 
Project Agreement;
(o)
“CBP Project Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Administrator and CBP, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term shall include all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
CBP Project Agreement;
(p)
“JNB Project Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Administrator and JNB, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term shall include all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
JNB Project Agreement; and
(q)
“Respective Project Agreement” means, in respect of AB, the AB Project 
Agreement, in respect of CBP, the CBP Project Agreement and, in respect of JNB, the 
JNB Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Page  4
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts 
paid (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be paid) by a Participating Bank on 
account of withdrawals made by a Microenterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in each of the Participating Banks on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to each of the Respective Project Agreements.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PA to pay to the Administrator a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause the PA to pay to the Administrator a 
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause the PA to repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 
commencing February 1, 2001, and ending August 1, 2036. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on August 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. AB, CBP and JNB are designated as representatives of the Borrower 
for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions 
with respect to Categories (1), (2) and (3), respectively, set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
Page  5
shall: (i) ensure that each Participating Bank shall perform in accordance with its 
Respective Project Agreement all of the obligations of the Participating Bank therein 
set forth; (ii) take all action necessary or appropriate to enable the Participating 
Bank to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the PA 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the PA, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the PA to make the proceeds of the Credit 
available to Participating Banks under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into 
between the PA (on behalf of the Borrower) and each of said Participating Banks, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator, including 
the following:
(i)
the Borrower shall lend to the respective Participating Bank the 
amount in 
dollars allocated from time to time to such 
Participating Bank in the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement and the Participating 
Bank shall repay such 
amount in dollars pursuant to the terms and conditions 
set forth in 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, including those set 
forth here below;
(ii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal amount 
thereof (A) 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest 
at the rate of 1.25% per 
annum, and (B) not withdrawn from time to time 
at the same rate applicable to 
the Credit pursuant to Section 2.04 (a) 
of this Agreement; and 
(iii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of twenty (20) 
years, 
including a grace period of ten (10) years.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause the PA to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, all of the obligations of the PA therein 
set forth.
(e)
The Borrower shall cause the PA to exercise its rights under each 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the PA not to assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.  The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, and maintenance, respectively) shall be carried out, 
respectively, by AB, CBP and JNB, each pursuant to Section 2.03 of its Respective 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain suitable arrangements pursuant to 
which each Participating Bank shall, for all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure: (a) maintain records and accounts; and (b) have said records and 
accounts, together with those for its respective Special Account, audited, all in 
accordance with the provisions of Article III of the Respective Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  6
(a) 
AB, CBP or JNB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
its Respective Project Agreement.
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall make it improbable that AB, CBP or JNB 
will be able to perform its obligations under its Respective Project Agreement.
(c) 
Any Respective Charter or Respective Statement of Policy shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the operations or financial condition of any Participating Bank or its 
ability to carry out its Respective Part of the Project.
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Participating Banks 
or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) 
The right of any Participating Bank to utilize the proceeds of the 
financing provided for under its respective IFC Agreement shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of said Agreement, 
or the financing provided for under such IFC Agreement shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower and the respective 
Participating Bank; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
the PEA;
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed by the PA and the 
Participating Banks; and
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFC Agreements have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Respective Project 
Agreements, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly 
authorized and ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties 
thereof and are legally binding upon said parties in accordance with the terms 
thereof.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever 
shall be the earlier.
Page  7
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided for in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, Minister 
of Finance of the PA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Palestine Liberation Organization
c/o The Palestinian Authority
Gaza City, Gaza
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Al Ram, West Bank and Gaza,  as of  the day and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
By /s/ Abdelrahman Hamad
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Trust Fund for
Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Odin K. Knudsen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Page  8
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in U.S.
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)  
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans by AB
   2,000,000
25% of amounts paid
(2)
Sub-loans by CBP
   1,000,000
25% of amounts paid
(3)
Sub-loans by JNB
   2,000,000
25% of amounts paid
TOTAL
          5,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made by Participating  Banks prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for payments made by the Participating Banks on 
account of Sub-loans, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to each of the Participating Banks.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to develop a sustainable source of credit to 
Microenterprises in the West Bank and Gaza.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Provision of loans to Microenterprises, by each of (i) AB; (ii) CBP; and (iii) 
JNB, for the furtherance of income generating activities.
Part B:
Strengthening the institutional capabilities of (i) AB; (ii) CBP; and (iii) JNB 
to expand their lending to Microenterprises.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2002.
