Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:          22461
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-27405; IDA-26220)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 9.8 MILLION
(SDR 7.0 EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
June 26, 2001
Water and Urban II
Country Department 13
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 11, 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 1 = US$ 0.00137
US$ 1 = CFAF 727.55
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEV             Rural water supply/Adductions d'eau villageoise
AGETIP          Public Works Executing Agency/Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Public
AUE             Water Users' AssociationslAssociations des usagers de 1 'eau
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CEDA-CREPA    Centre pour l'environnement et le developpement en Afrique-Centre de reseau pour l'eau
potable et l'assainissement dfaible coat
CFD             French Aid agencylCaissefrancaise de developpement
DANIDA          Danish International Development Assistance
DH              Directorate of Water Works/Direction de l 'hydraulique
DHAB            Directorate of Hygiene and Sanitation/Direction de 1 'hygiene et de l 'assainissement
GTZ             German Technical Cooperation
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             International Development Association
JICA            Japan International Cooperation Agency
MOF             Ministry of Finance
NGO             Non-governmental organization
PADEAR          Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project/Projet d'assistance au developpement du secteur de
l'alimentation en eau et de l'assainissement en milieu rural
PERAC           Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PSR             Project Supervision Report
RWSG-WA         West Africa Regional Group of the UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program
RWSS            Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SHAB            Regional offices of the National Directorate of Hygiene and Basic Sanitation
SRH             Water Works Regional OfficelService regional de l 'hydraulique
TTL             Task Team Leader
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
VLOM            Village level operation and maintenance
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:    Antoinette M. Sayeh, AFC13
Sector Manager:    Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:   Jennifer J. Sara, AFTU2



BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 12
6. Sustainability                                                                     13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   17
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                27
Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                                 28






Project ID: P00012 1                                     Project Name: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Team Leader: Jennifer J. Sara                            TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation             L/C/TFNumber: TF-27405; IDA-26220
Country/Department: BENIN                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation; WY - Other
Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actuial
PCD:  01/30/1992                              Effective:  12/19/94         07/12/95
Appraisal:  11/01/1993                               MTR: 03/31/96              12/04/96
Approval:  06/07/1994                             Closing: 12/31/97            12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF BENIN/DIRECTORATE OF WATER
Other Partners: DANIDA
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                          Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     Antoinette Sayeh                          Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Letitia Obeng                             Alberto Harth
Team Leader at ICR:   Jennifer Sara                            Richard Verspyck
ICR Primary Author:  Jennifer Sara; Tracy Hart
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Ouitcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Inpact: SU
Bank Performnance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Qutality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main development objective of the project was the full-scale demonstration of a new sector strategy,
whose objectives are to (a) maximize impact and use of safe rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS)
facilities in rural areas; and (b) ensure that the future development of the sector will respond to the demand
of the rural population.



This new sector strategy for Benin was prepared by the Direction de l'Hydraulique in 1990-1992, with
assistance from the Regional Water and Sanitation Group-West Africa (RWSG-WA), based on an
assessment of the constraints to sector improvements during the 1980's. At that time, shortcomings that
hampered sector development and limited impact included: (a) lack of community participation and
ownership; (b) absence of local capacity; (c) ineffectiveness of sanitation and hygiene education programs;
(d) the dependence of the sector on external resources; and (e) lack of sustainability. After its adoption in
March 1992, the strategy was discussed with other donors active in the sector regarding how to articulate
the principles into practical measures. The sector strategy was formally signed into Ministerial Decree in
May 1994.
The main elements of the strategy include:
(a)  decentralization of the decision-making process to ensure investments respond to community
demand;
(b)  decentralization of the decision-making process through effective deconcentration of the Directorate
of Hydraulique (DH);
(c)  comrnunity participation in project financing and management of operations and maintenance;
(d)  reduction of construction costs by offering service levels to respond to community needs as measured
by their willingness and capacity to pay;
(e)  disengagement of public sector in implementation of works;
(f)  participation of private sector in consultancies and works contracts; and
(g)  integration of hygiene, environment and sanitation messages in community mobilization and training.
3.2 Revised Objective:
T;he project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components:
1. Water Supply for Communities in Two Regions (US$6.6 million). About 200,000 people in 400
rural communities would be served by improved water facilities. Communities, assisted by NGOs, would
be required to plan and design their improved water system, select from a range of technical options and
develop a management plan. At the same time, the DH would divest its drilling equipment and discontinue
its force account activities.
2. Provision of Village Level Operation and Maintenance (VLOM) handpumps to cover the needs of
all RWS projects in Benin (US$1.3 million). The project included the provision and delivery to Cotonou
of 1,500 handpumps, competitively tendered through ICB, in an effort to achieve standardization of
equipment across projects in the country, thereby facilitating the establishment of a viable supply chain of
spare parts and technical expertise to backstop community maintenance.
3. Sanitation and Hygiene Education (US$1.6 million). Specific objectives included: (a) increase the
demand for improved sanitation services through extensive marketing and training campaigns; (b) train
masons to construct private and public latrines; (c) improve hygiene practices and sanitation conditions in
schools and clinics; and (d) improve practices and sanitation conditions of rural households and
communities through integration of appropriate messages and activities in the community mobilization
process for the water supply program.
4. Capacity Building (US$1.9 million). The key objective was to shift responsibilities from the public to
- 2 -



the private sector.  The component included training, technical assistance, studies, monitoring and
evaluation activities and project management, targeted at the DH and its regional offices (SRH), the
National Directorate of Hygiene and Basic Sanitation (DHAB) and its regional offices (SHAB), NGOs and
private sector (consultants, contractors, masons, well-diggers and pump mechanics).
The components were well designed to meet project objectives, and took into account the best practice
approaches for RWSS at that time. This included linking the institutional and policy reform to results on
the ground at the community level. In retrospect, the time required to achieve the individual institutional
reform challenges in the DH, in the DHAB, and in the other stakeholders was underestimated, resulting in
the need to extend the project to achieve the physical results in the communities. The targets and monitoring
indicators included in the Staff Appraisal Report, despite not having been retrofitted to a logframe format,
were well suited to conduct project evaluations and relate project outputs to development objectives (see
Annex 1).
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revised components, although the project was twice extended. The first 18-month extension
was caused primarily by project effectiveness delays (13 months after Board approval on a three-year
project). The second extension was required to allow the project to meet its physical objectives, once the
start-up difficulties related to the major change of roles of stakeholders were overcome and a process for
community-level implementation was well-established.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry of the project was satisfactory. This was the first IDA free-standing rural water and
sanitation project in Benin, as IDA had only previously supported the urban water sector through two
projects. The project was presented to the Board at the same time as the new CAS, which among other
issues of major structural reform, highlighted the importance of community participation for social sector
and poverty alleviation programs, as well as a specific reference to the use of a demand-driven approach
for RWSS.
The project was designed as an instrument that would allow Government to move forward on its new sector
strategy in rural areas in water supply and sanitation. Four Bank missions were undertaken between
project identification (May 1992) through Board approval (June 1994), while additional technical
assistance was provided from RWSG-WA. These missions focused on ensuring Government's full
commitment to reform and working out the responsibilities of stakeholders in implementing the new sector
strategy, including defining roles for communities, the private sector, the public sector and NGOs.
Government also secured a project preparation facility (PPF), which enabled the DH to take a lead role in
project preparation.
Close coordination with the donor community was also given a priority, with ample discussions on thorny
issues, such as those linked to the elimination of force account construction, technology choices and
handpump standardization. Agreements were reached with DANIDA to co-finance 34 percent of project
costs and with UNICEF to alter its way of delivering services through DH force account. The project was
also able to work together with UNICEF to evaluate, amend and reproduce the hygiene education materials,
which they had prepared for use in schools and distribution to hygiene educators in PADEAR communities.
Outside of the water sector, the IDA portfolio in Benin had faced generic implementation issues related to
procurement, disbursement, counterpart funding and capacity of civil service accounting staff. Strategies to
overcome these deficiencies were specifically addressed in the design of the project.
-3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory as it achieved most of its relevant objectives and is expected to
achieve its development results. The development objective of the project was to be achieved by the
full-scale demonstration of the new sector strategy, and can be measured in terms of the progress made in
implementing the strategy principles, as outlined in the Government's letter of sector policy, as well as
results on the ground in approximately 325 communities in the two departments where the project was
implemented (Zou and Atlantique).
The DH and DHAB, with support from RWSG-WA, undertook a comprehensive end-of-project evaluation
and commissioned a study to assess results by conducting well-structured community surveys in 50
communities (including 15 as a non-project control group). The community survey report, known as the
CEDA-CREPA study, is the primary source of community-level results referred to in this ICR. The Bank's
ICR mission staff also collected information by: (a) conducting a rapid field assessment in 20 communities;
(b) meeting with all project stakeholders (regional offices of DH and DHAB, NGOs, pump suppliers,
consultants and contractors); and (c) visiting major external support agencies working in the sector.
Overall assessment of policy adoption. The external support agencies agree that the greatest success of
the project has been its impact on assisting the government to put in place a national strategy for the sector,
which is now followed by all partners. All new bilaterally-funded RWSS projects that were started during
the past few years have adopted the PADEAR strategy. Even though the strategy has been widely adopted,
sector practitioners, led by the DH and DHAB, have not become complacent, and are keen to learn what is
working on the ground to achieve community-level impact and sustainability.
A specific assessment of the achievement of policy reforms and project-related results is as follows:
(a)    Decentralization of the decision-making process to ensure investments respond to community
demand: This decision-making process requires two levels of informed choice by the community: first, a
decision to request participation in the project; and second, a selection of a preferred technology option and
level of service based on willingness-to-pay. In Benin today, any community that wants to improve its
water system with DH support must formulate a subproject request, complete a baseline survey and
develop a community subproject proposal specifying their preferred level of service based on their
willingness to pay the required financial contribution and detailing a Facility Management Plan (FMP).
Through the project, in response to very effective mass media promotional campaigns in the two
departments, 1,668 requests were presented by communities to the NGOs, 1,260 baseline surveys were
validated, 837 community project proposals were submitted and 325 communities received improved water
facilities. Although these results point to an extremely high community demand for improved facilities, the
strategy of "generating demand," regardless of supply constraints, has also led to frustration in the
communities that have applied and are yet to benefit. The CEDA-CREPA study reveals that 80 percent of
community-level interviewees agreed that the decision to participate was made by the entire community,
while 20 percent thought that is was made by someone else in the community (an organization or the village
chief). The main reason for requesting project support was the lack of an improved water source in the
community (65 percent), while 18 percent and 6 percent respectively considered distance and insufficiency
of existing facilities to be the reason. In terms of selecting their preferred technical option, almost all
communities felt that they had a say and were able to select from two or three options.
(b)    Decentralization of the decision-making process through effective deconcentration of DH and
- 4 -



DHAB: In 1994, the DH was extremely centralized with 123 permanent staff, most of whom were directly
involved in designing and constructing water supply systems. This was similarly the case in the DHAB.
As part of the policy reform, regional offices of the DH (SRH) and the DHAB (SHAB) were strengthened
and assigned greater responsibilities. In the case of the DH, the project unit in the central office was
disbanded and replaced by a Directorate of Community Development, Programming and Evaluation. In the
case of the DHAB, the Regional Medical Officer was given increased responsibility at the decentralized
level. The decentralization of decision-making, of which the community would be served completely, was
achieved based on the new process put in place for communities to apply for improved services, rather than
being selected upfront by the government agency.
Within the project area, the DH and DHAB achieved a good degree of deconcentration to the SRH and
SHAB respectively, in the Atlantique and Zou regions, in terms of planning, supervising and monitoring
work in the communities, coordinating with NGOs and the private sector, and participating in some aspects
of the procurement process.  However, financial autonomy did not accompany these transferred
responsibilities, as this was not included in the initial project design. It is only in the Zou region that a
small revolving fund was established that allowed the SRH to pay small contracts linked to the sanitation
component of the project.
(c)    Community participation  in  project financing and  management of operations and
maintenance: At the national level, in May 1996, the DH promoted the passage of a ministerial decree
that legally recognized community Water Users' Associations (AUE) and allowed them to take charge of
managing water systems on behalf of the community. A ministerial decree was also passed to establish
levels of community financial contributions to improved works, although the Bank expressed its concerns
that the level of community contribution is quite low (2-5 percent). Also, the policy favors new investments
over rehabilitations. The project, however, did influence certain aspects of the policy for piped water
systems. After two years of project implementation there was a much larger-than-expected number of
demands for piped water systems, indicating that the initial pricing policy for piped water systems had to be
revised upward to reflect the much higher cost of these systems compared to handpumps.
In terms of the project results in the two departments, the project evaluation notes that all communities that
received facilities paid their required contribution into their own bank account. Payments represented 2-5
percent of the cost of actual civil works. In terms of how contributions were made, in 80 percent of the
cases, all households contributed, and in 12 percent of communities, only those who could afford were
required to pay, while 8 percent of the communities had a more ad-hoc system for collecting contributions.
An AUE was formed and trained in every community to manage operations and maintenance, although
additional training is required in communities that received their handpumps at the very end of the project
as well as for the small piped systems (this work will be taken up through a DANIDA-funded follow-on
project).
(d)    Reduction of construction costs by offering service levels to respond to community needs as
measured by their willingness and capacity to pay:  Two elements contributed to the reduction of
construction costs in the project: (a) community selection of preferred level of service; and (b) procurement
arrangements. The community willingness to pay had only a limited effect on their choice of technology for
point sources (15 percent of communities stated that price was a factor), since the main criteria for
selection was technical. In the Atlantique department, where deep open wells were feasible, this was the
preferred option due to their ease of maintenance and traditional ways of drawing water. In the Atlantique
department, communities paid an average of 205,000 FCFA (US$292 for 500 people) as their contribution
to the well. The Zou region is less favorable for wells as the water table is much deeper and there are
sedimentary rock formations. The community's preference was to choose the less expensive boreholes
- 5 -



equipped with handpumps, with an average community contribution of 161,000 FCFA (US$230 for 500
people). Price certainly affected choice in the case of the small piped systems (Adductions d'eau villageiose
- AEV). Demand dropped off dramatically once the DH adjusted the financial policy to link the price
charged to 5 percent of the actual cost (see para. c above).
Cost reductions were achieved by adopting a procurement process, which was designed to attract the local
private sector rather than large ICB packages. The best results were achieved in the boreholes contracts,
where estimates put the costs savings at up to 50 percent at the end of the project compared to ICB costs at
the beginning of the project and in neighboring CFA-zone countries. These results held up similarly for
small piped systems, where the contract price was in all cases below what the DH had estimated based on
historical figures from similar projects implemented in the country. In addition, unit cost reductions were
achieved in the sanitation component by adopting more suitable, lower-cost technologies for school latrines,
such as sanplat slabs and use of Mozambican design. Unit costs of household latrines were influenced by
community willingness to pay. Given the absence of subsidies, many households chose to use traditional
building materials for their superstructures.
(e)    Disengagement of public sector in implementation of works: This is one of the more important
sector reforms that was achieved through the new policy in terms of: (a) making way for the emergence of a
market for the local private sector in providing goods and services; and (b) realigning the role of the DH
and DHAB as facilitators rather then implementors. Prior to the project, one of the main constraints to
private sector development was the unfair competition of the DH staff in consulting and construction. The
full divestiture of the DH's drilling and well-digging equipment was not achieved in 1996 when it was sold
to local contractors, and they completed removed themselves from providing consulting and contracting
services.
(f)    Participation of private sector in consultancies and works contracts: Overall, the local private
sector has responded well to the opening up of the local RWSS market for goods and services. In general,
consultancy firms have performed better that contractors who suffered through many of the start-up
difficulties typical of small and medium enterprises: poor planning and financial management, resulting in
cashflow problems, and lack of access to sufficient equipment (especially the well-diggers). Latrine
artisans and area mechanics fared better, perhaps due to their existence on a limited scale prior to
PADEAR intervention.  Through the new sector policy, private sector providers of goods and services
have emerged, even though most of them are PADEAR-dependent, they now compete for contracts across
all sector projects. DANIDA has embarked on a national program to continue to strengthen the capacity of
these private entrepreneurs.
(g)    Integration of hygiene, environment and sanitation messages in community mobilization and
training: Before the national strategy, there was some limited integration of water, sanitation and hygiene
occurring through UNICEF and USAID projects in the field: the DH/SRH built water systems, and the
DHAB/SHAB focused its activities on building sanitation facilities in urban areas. The new strategy seeks
integration of water, hygiene and sanitation at the community level through the community development
work undertaken by the NGOs. In addition, the SHAB is responsible for promoting improvements in school
environmental sanitation through the provision of water cistems, latrines and training of teachers in hygiene
promotion.
Finally, the national strategy calls for the training of latrine artisans, not only in latrine construction, but in
helping them set up businesses and market their latrines. Benin is one of the few countries that has adopted
a subsidy-free approach to rural household sanitation. The project was used as a testing ground for this
new integrated approach, and for the first time the DH and DHAB worked together as partners using this
- 6 -



common approach.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Water Supply for Communities in Two Regions
(Target: About 200,000 with improved water facilities in 400 rural conmmunities)
The achievement of this component is rated as satisfactory.
Taking into account the demand-responsive nature of the project, the SAR provided only indicative figures
as to the number and type of water systems that would be requested by communities. The following table
shows SAR projections, as well as project results (results are in parenthesis, underlined numbers are
partially completed works).
The project funded 323 completed water facilities, 120 partially completed facilities, and the technical
assistance and community development work of an additional 162 water points. The partially completed
facilities include 86 boreholes, which only need to be equipped with handpumps - work that will be quickly
completed during the start-up of the follow-on DANIDA project (which starts April 2001, although the
pre-financing of these works has been approved). There are also 34 boreholes where rehabilitation work
was started but is on hold due to high nitrate levels and/or the need for hydraulic fracturing to increase their
yields and so have not yet been equipped with handpumps. Technical solution for these boreholes will also
be provided as a first priority in the DANIDA project.
The table also includes 162 boreholes whose siting and supervision was paid for by the project and
implemented by UNICEF, and whose community development work was funded and undertaken through
the project. The construction of these boreholes was funded and undertaken by JICA and UNICEF with
the DH. An additional 17 piped systems were constructed with AFD financing following the project
strategy, however these are not included below as the project did not provide any financial support.
The SAR estimated that about 200,000 would be served, using an average of 500 people served per
waterpoint, with a small point system serving about 2500 people. The project therefore fully served
173,500 people, contributed about 50 percent of the costs for 81,000 (162 boreholes), and will have served
an additional 60,000 when the remaining works are completed.
Type of System                  AtHantique              Zou                   Total
Cistern                          10  (0)                 10 (0)                20 (0)
Spring catchment                   8  (0)                12 (0)                20 (0)
Well                              10  (167)              10 (0)                20 (167)
Well rehabilitation              25  (0)                 25 (0)                50 (0)
Borehole with handpump           100  (16)               60 (106 + 86)        160 (122 +±86)
Borehole rehabilitation          20  (1)                 20 (27 + 34)          40 (28 +34)
Standpost (mechanized)             3  (0)                3 (1)                 6 (1)
Small Piped System (mech.)        2 (I serving 3 villages)  2 (4 serving 7 villages  4 (5)
B/holes (TA from UNICEF)          0                     200 (JICA/UNICEF)     200 (162)
Total                                                                         520 (485 +120)
As noted in the table above, the type of technology selected was very different from the initial estimates,
with most communities in the Atlantique department opting for open wells, while communities in the Zou
- 7-



selected boreholes. Spring catchments did not prove to be a viable technical alternative, while rainwater
catchment cistems were only used in schools (see Component 3 below). A restricted number of small town
piped systems were constructed, in line with the estimates, but this was only after the initial "demand" was
quenched by readjusting the financial policy to make the required community contribution more in line with
actual costs.
In terms of component design and implementation, the following lessons emerged:
*   Start-up in communities was extremely slow during the first two years of the project as the public
sector and NGO staff needed to be trained in participatory methodologies and demand-driven
approaches.
* Initial financial policy and communication strategies did not provide clear messages on actual levels of
community contributions in real terms, causing confusion as well as sending wrong signals to
communities, resulting in a huge "demand" for higher levels of service. However, remedial actions
were effective in realigning community contributions to actual costs.
*  Water resources were also a constraining factor in providing higher levels of services, and many of the
initial small towns had to be dropped or accommodated with point sources.
*   The strategy used by the DH of "generating" as much community demand as possible in order to build
up a database of projects (the 1,025 requests received exceeded expectations), clearly showed that
communities understood the rules of the game, took initiatives and readily mobilized financial
resources. However, the strategy also created frustration in communities that did not benefit from the
project and has tied up their money, which could have been used for other community development
activities.
*  NGOs helped every community to form a water committee, and then trained them in financial
management, operation maintenance and sanitation and hygiene promotion campaigns. The
CEDA-CREPA evaluation reports that 571 committees were formed in the project area, with an
average age of 2.6 years and a composition of 4 men and 2 women on each committee (although
women usually do not have leadership roles). Ninety eight percent of community members know their
water committee representatives, 96 percent rate their work as good and 54 percent of committees meet
at least every two months.
*   There was steep leaming curve required by the DH related to preparing bidding documents and
undertaking procurement processes. They also sought no-objections at ever step, even when not
required. This resulted in major delays in project start-up, with most works completed only during the
last three years of project implementation.
*   Although implementation delays led to a very long project cycle in each community (from 2 to 3 years),
the CEDA-CREPA evaluation found benefits in this approach as it allowed NGOs and public agency
staff to interact longer in each community, and reinforce their capacity building and hygiene messages.
On the other hand, the costs of maintaining these NGOs for such a long period of time must also be
assessed.
Component 2: Provision of VLOM pumps to cover the needs of all RWSS projects in Benin
(Target: 1,500 pumps procured on a competitive basis to meet needs over three years)
The component is rated as satisfactory as the full contingent of pumps was procured (1,050 Afridev and
450 Vergnet) and these two VLOM-type pumps, which can be operated and maintained by community
members themselves, are being used by all RWS projects in Benin.
However, the rate of handpump usage has been extremely slow and only 27 percent of the pumps have been
installed, due primarily to the delay of other externally funded projects in starting up and reaching their full
- 8 -



implementation speed.  Agreements have been reached with respective projects for utilization of
approximately 1,100 remaining pumps over the next two years, as follows: 600 pumps DANIDA-Borgou
project, 200 pumps for national rehabilitation program, 120 pumps GTZ-Mono/Oueme, 100 pumps to
complete PADEAR IDA-DANIDA, and 80 pumps for UNICEF. Adequate procedures are in place for
monitoring equipment inventory and ensuring the quality and performance of the pumps at the delivery
point. Pump distributors have also expanded their business to include borehole apron construction and
community training in handpump maintenance. This allows them to be involved with the community and at
the same time ensure the quality of the overall installation.
Additional indicators of performance of this project objective included the availability of spare parts and
after sales servicing. Pump distributors have established 11 local spare parts retail sales points throughout
the country, linked to local hardware shops. Local retailers make a 10 percent profit. In three cases, pump
and spare parts sales represents an important 10 to 20 percent of their overall business turnover.
In terms of introducing the VLOM concept into the country, the availability of these pumps and the
establishment of a viable supply chain for spare parts certainly is a step in the right direction. VLOM
pumps also have the advantage of being able to be easily maintained by the community members, if the
communities are trained and provided with appropriate manuals and repair tools. However, the DH and the
private sector have been slow in making the transition to full community management. They still prefer to
rely on the network of handpunp mechanics "artisans reparateurs" who are supposed to be hired by
communities to repair their pumps, rather than empowering the community to do more of the work directly.
Although the area mechanic system somehow undermines community-level maintenance, it is interesting to
note that the network of mechanics performs well (most of these mechanics also repair motorcycles or are
blacksmiths). Thirty-eight mechanics were trained by the project, although there are many more operating
throughout the country.
Component 3: Sanitation and Hygiene Education.
The objective was to contribute to improved health of rural population and the quality of the rural
environment through better management and delivery of sanitation services. The objective was
satisfactorily achieved as all physical targets were met, although it may be too soon to rate the behavioral
impact indicators.
The three-prong strategy adopted for this component was innovative in that it focused on increasing usage
of proper sanitation facilities through marketing and promotion rather than just building latrines. It was the
first large-scale government program implemented in Benin by the Ministry of Health in the area of rural
environmental sanitation (although UNICEF had a long track record in this work). In addition, the DH and
DHAB worked together for the first time at both the national and regional level. The strategy was as
follows:
1) DHAB, through its regional offices (SHAB), would facilitate the training of local masons in setting
up latrine construction businesses and generate demand for improved household sanitation by
implementing well-targeted marketing and promotion campaigns.
2) SHAB would also encourage schools and health centers to improve environmental sanitation
conditions and hygiene practices, through the provision of cisterns, latrines and training on hygiene
education and latrine management.
3) NGOs hired to implement the rural water component of the project would promote improved
environmental sanitation conditions and hygiene practices of households and rural communities through
the integration of appropriate messages in water supply program.
-9-



Project achievements include:
*   130 latrine artisans were trained in construction, marketing, and hygiene education; 38 out of 46
masons are still operating in the Atlantique and 72 out of 84 continue to operate in the Zou, with an
overall retention rate of 85 percent.
*  Primary school teachers were trained in environmental sanitation in 34 schools in both departments and
encouraged to form student organizations to oversee maintenance of water and sanitation facilities and
monitor overall hygiene practices. The construction of rainwater cistems and latrines was promoted in
schools throughout the two departments.
*  Staff of the 6 NGOs working with the project were trained in hygiene education.
*  NGOs working with the SHAB then trained 238 community-level hygiene promoters (who are
members of the water committees) in IEC.
*  An additional AIDS education campaign was implemented for all DH, SH, DHAB, SIHAB and NGO
staff in 2000.
Results and initial impact are:
=  800 subsidy-free household latrines have been constructed, far exceeding the expected target of 300,
with each mason building an average of 11 latrines during the past 3 years; 31 percent of households
have considered building a latrine; 54 percent think it is too expensive and 22 percent don't see their
use; 80 percent of the household latrines are rated as clean by the CEDA/CREPA evaluation. Masons
continue their marketing campaigns for household campaigns, usually using local radios, but have also
moved towards the more lucrative market of building institutional latrines in schools and health centers.
*  Overall, 296 latrines, out of an SAR target of 300, were built in schools and health centers in the 2
departments; and 285 rainwater catchment cistems were constructed, even though none were included
in the SAR. In terms of latrines, these numbers represent 18 percent of the primary schools and 29
percent of heath centers in the Zou, and 20 percent of schools and 14 percent of health centers in the
Atlantique.
*  More than 70 percent of the schools that have a health committee had them put in place through
PADEAR; and 58 percent of the committees have been trained by NGOs; and 60 percent of health
centers that have constructed facilities have put in place a committee.
*  40 percent of health centers have soap available for handwashing after latrine usage; however, this
practice is much worse in schools where only 25 percent have soap available and 58 percent have a
place available for handwashing. Cleanliness of school latrines was judged satisfactory in 56 percent of
cases and clean in 37 percent.
*  A major concem is the water quality of the cisterns as schools do not practice desinfection A recent
study conducted by the DHAB revealed almost all cistem water to be contaminated. DHAB is now
putting in place a strategy to solve this problem.
*  At the household level, the CEDA-CREPA project evaluation found mixed results in terms of actual
modification of hygiene-related behavior practices compared to a control group of non-project
households, despite the ability of many community members to repeat hygiene messages that had been
transmitted through the NGOs. Although 80 percent of households keep drinking water in a closed
container and 65 percent do not place leaves over their water during transportation, only 33 percent of
adults claim to wash hands after defecation.
*  Water consumption has increased from 3.2 basins pre-project to 5.8 basins from the improved facility
in dry season. However, consumption rates drop off by about 21 percent during the rainy season.
Cleanliness of water points was found to be very good, although 47 percent of the soak-away pits were
clogged.
- 1 0 -



Component 4: Capacity Building with a key objective to shift responsibility from public to private sector.
This objective was also satisfactorily achieved, as measured by the full transfer of consulting and
contractor services to the private sector, the reorientation and deconcentration of the DH, DHAB and their
regional offices, and the development of the capacities of the NGOs and the private sector. The component
was implemented through the use of international technical assistance, long-term advisors during project
start-up, followed by periodic missions of international consultants from DANIDA and RWSG-WA, as
well as training undertaken by national organizations.
Specific achievements, using indicators included in the SAR, include:
(a)    Enhanced capacity of DH and SRH, as well as the DHAB and SHAB:
* Ability to take on new responsibilities as program planners and facilitators rather then implementors, in
a multi-sectoral manner, including the software aspects of projects and a recognition of the importance
of an integrated approach of water, hygiene and sanitation;
* New skills developed in procurement and contract management;
*   Deconcentration to SRH and DHAB and skills strengthening: detailed workplan and progress report,
stakeholder coordination, team work, limited amount of financial management in the Zou, participation
in procurement process and works supervision, improved office space and logistical support;
* Additional strengthening is required in areas of financial management and sector monitoring and
evaluation. Although financial management was adequately handled during project implementation,
on-going technical support has been necessary to reinforce capacities after the departure of consultants.
(b)    NGOs capacity developed for implementing rural water, hygiene and sanitation program:
* All six NGOs that started working with the project continued throughout its duration. Four of the
NGOs work in other sectors, and so are not fully dependent on the project for continuity;
*   The mid-term review identified several areas for NGO strengthening: acceleration of community
mobilization process, use of a wider range of participatory techniques, better supervision of field staff
and internal management. Improvements were made in all aspects, although NGOs are still weak at
information management.
(c)    Private sector: the project strategy focused mainly on technical training of the private sector to
implement a range of services, good provision and contracts for many tasks which had previously not been
done by local contractors. The smaller-sized contracts and removal of the public sector definitely allowed
for entry of the local business sector, which had not been the case before the project. In retrospect, more
attention could have been given to an analysis of the overall business environment rather then just on the
technical training, including, for example, the size of the market for the different types of services and
contracts, and private sector access to credit and business support.
The best private sector performers were the latrine artisans, area mechanics, pump suppliers/distributors
and small town contractors. The consultant capacity for borehole siting and supervision left much to be
desired, although it significantly improved from an average of 45 percent positive boreholes for the first
program to 69 percent for the seventh batch (the capacity varied significantly across the firms). Although
consultant firms performed well on the technical aspects of design and supervision of piped water system,
they need additional strengthening on the community development side. Well-diggers and borehole
contractors experienced implementation delays on all of their contracts, due to poor site management,
- 1 1 -



financial planning and equipment problems. Their performance definitely improved during the last year of
the project with support from a team of DANIDA-funded international technical advisors, as well as much
closer contract management by the public sector, in an effort to complete all works by the project closing
date. The completion of 40 percent of project works during the last year of the project certainly does point
to capacity improvements at all levels.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No net present value or economic rates of return were calculated at time of SAR (see Annex 3 for further
details).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Based on the analysis of the achievements of Component 4 of the project, the institutional development
impact of the project is substantial. As outlined above, the roles of the DH and the DHAB were
significantly re-oriented towards a more policy setting and facilitating role, and they achieved a good degree
of deconcentration to their regional offices. Improvements are still required in the areas of financial
management and sector monitoring. In addition, the DH and DHAB have initiated an analysis of how they
would need to adjust once decentralization reforms take place in Benin. An area of concern to the long
term viability of the DH, however, is government's contribution to its operating costs. During the project,
government covered only 43 percent of DH's operating costs. It is important that this amount be increased
to cover DH's full operational costs, rather than making it dependent on the support of externally funded
projects.
The institutional development impact in the private sector and NGOs is non-reversible as they will continue
to apply their skills developed to new contracts in the sector. Last, but not least, impact has been great in
the communities, not only in building their capacity to manage their water and sanitation projects, but also,
as an entry point to other development activities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factor, outside of government control, hindering project implementation was that of water
resources. Not only was there a high rate of unsuccessful boreholes linked to the private sector's 'learning
curve', but there were also persistent problems with water quality in some of the deep boreholes, especially
linked to high levels of nitrates.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government could have prevented many of the delays in project implementation by being more
expeditious in making the project effective, ensuring the timely release of counterpart funds from the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), and reducing the administrative procedures, which required the MOF to
approve most of the contracts ex-ante.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Some actions on the DH's part also slowed down implementation. Project start-up was slow during the
first two years due to a steep learning curve as well as a lack of delegation from the national director staff
in the central office and regions. There were significant procurement delays, linked to the learning curve
(no-objections were sought when not required) and the Bank sometimes took too long to respond. Contract
management was also a bit lax and did not put sufficient pressure on the private sector to deliver services
- 12 -



on time. However, this situation was remedied during the last year of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no major changes in project costs.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Although most of the water and sanitation facilities have only been in place a short period, their
sustainability is considered likely. All facilities completed through the project are functioning.
In terms of the waterpoints, the key elements linked to their sustainability are: (a) continued demand,
consumer satisfaction and payment for services by community members; (b) sound management structure
in place; (c) good financial management, adequate tariff setting and savings practice; and (d) technical
capacity to operate, maintain and repair, including access to spare parts and technical assistance.
Overall, the maintenance of open wells in the Atlantique department is much easier than boreholes equipped
with handpumps and small piped systems. Although all water points require daily cleaning, in terms of
spare parts and maintenance, the wells require only a change of the rope and bucket each year, and greasing
of the pulley system. Handpump sustainability requires ready availability of spare parts, and so far the 11
outlet centers that have been set up continue to sell these parts. In addition, there is a strong network of
area mechanics throughout Benin who have the tools and knowledge for fixing handpumps. The small
piped systems require greater technical support, which must be purchased in the private sector. Service
contracts are in place for submersible pumps in these small towns.
Findings specific to the CEDA-CREPA community-level evaluation of 35 working water communities
show:
*   All water systems respond to initial community demand whereby community members have made an
informed choice about their preferred level of service. Water usage is high, although it decreases in the
rainy season. All users are satisfied with the water quality.
*   Water committees are in place in all communities and their roles and members are known by
community members.
*   The committees that have been in place for a longer time show good operational and management
skills; however, these skills need to be reinforced in communities that have recently received facilities
(and some have yet to be trained in financial management): 86 percent of committees received all three
phases of training, all rated the training as useful, and half of the committees would like more training,
mainly on technical issues.
*   Tariff setting and collection is weak. Two-thirds of the communities have a pay-as-you-fetch cost
recovery system in place. The average price charged per bucket is 10 FCFA (US$.015/20 liters or
$0.75/cubic meter). Revenues generally cover recurrent expenditures, but only 10 percent of these
communities now have sufficient funds to cover equipment renewal. They need to be encouraged to
increase their level of savings.
*   Reasons given by one-third of the communities that do not charge, include: "it is our system and we
paid an initial contribution," we charge a head-tax on a monthly or annual basis," "we'll collect money
when we need it."
*   Most all (94 percent) water committees have a functioning bank account, with an average balance of
70,000 FCFA.
*   On the technical side, results are positive and show that communities can handle maintenance and
- 13 -



repairs. Out of 26 systems that are between 1-3 years old, 40 percent did not break down during the
year, 50 percent broke down between 1-3 times and 10 percent more than 4 times. In 70 percent of the
cases, repairs were completed in one day, 20 percent required 2-5 days and only one system was down
for more than 6 days. In almost all of the cases (90 percent), communities were able to fix their system
on their own.
In terms of household latrines, as these have been fully paid for and are owned and operated directly by the
family, their continued use and sustainability is highly likely. In terms of school and health clinic latrines,
project evaluation data point to the majority of the facilities being satisfactorily maintained, and in most
instances there are committees responsible for overseeing their usage. Water cisterns require very little
operational maintenance; however, committee training needs to be reinforced in terms of water quality
monitoring and treatment.
Continued training of the water committees that received their handpumps after the project closed, as well
as the piped water system operators is required. The DANIDA-funded follow-on project will oversee this
work. In addition, regional offices of the DH and DHAB still have a long-tenn role of monitoring and
backstopping communities as they manage their water and sanitation systems.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project installed a programmatic approach (PADEAR) within which several other donors are
continuing to operate in other regions of the country, specifically GTZ, Cooperation Belge, etc. With
respect to the Atlantique and Zou departments, DANIDA is supporting an Intermediate Phase financing of
PADEAR to respond to the additional community demands generated but not fully met before the closing
of the IDA credit. This is occurring in parallel to DANIDA's entrance into a multidonor PERAC
preparation process. DANIDA and the World Bank are working together to assist the Ministry of Mines,
Energy, and Hydraulique (MMEH) as they elaborate their budget-program for the 2002-2004 budget cycle
and their framework of expenses over this same period. This exercise also includes (i) the specific
objectives of the DH's program as it extends from the country's sectoral strategy in water supply and
sanitation; (ii) performance indicators and (results-oriented) project activities; (iii) estimated costs and
sources of financing, with implementation specifics.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance was satisfactory:  Project identification and preparation supported the
Govermnent's development of the national strategy. The Bank worked closely with RWSG-WA to field
multi-sectoral teams, including water and sanitation engineers and community development specialists, as
well as other required skills, and worked closely with government in designing the project during the two
years from identification to Board presentation. The participation of RWSG-WA allowed new ideas from
other countries to be brought into Benin. The Bank team also helped Government achieve good
coordination across donors, more specifically, in forming partnerships with IDA, UNICEF and DANIDA.
Although the project was ambitious in trying to help achieve major reform in the sector, its was correctly
dimensioned in terms of size and costs so as to retain a demonstration nature. The project design also drew
on best practice in RWSS at that time, and most notably, on the Ghana Community Water and Sanitation
project, of the same vintage. The sanitation component was, in particular, quite innovative in terms of
testing a subsidy-free approach. In addition, a good mechanism was put in place to oversee procurement
and financial management.
7.2 Supervision:
- 14 -



The Bank's performance in supervision was satisfactory: The Bank benefited from RWSG-WA and
DANIDA-funded TA consultants to gather information on project progress directly from the community
level. The Bank conducted two to three missions per year which included field visits and meetings with all
stakeholders. There was continuity in leadership with only two task team leaders (TTLs) throughout project
duration, and active participation of the original team leader through to the very end. All mission aide
memoires and PSRs/Supervision Form 590s were completed on time, and were proactive in identifying
issues affecting implementation and proposing solutions. According to the Borrower, the Bank at times
could have been more agile on responses to procurement. Although the project suffered major delays in its
early years, the Bank supported an approach that allowed stakeholders at all levels to build the required
capacity to implement the new sector policy. This has resulted in a more sustainable impact, especially at
the institutional development level.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating for bank performance is satisfactory, given the reasons outlined above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the DH and DHAB was highly satisfactory during project preparation, especially the
senior staff in both agencies who were willing to take risks to push forth the new demand-responsive,
community-based sector strategy, as well as to promote the coordination between the Ministry of Energy
and Hydraulics and the Ministry of Public Health. This project was particularly important for the DH as it
helped clarify its function in the sector, away from direct construction of services to one of promotion and
facilitation. The Borrower also coordinated closely with other external support agencies, some of whom
were initially against the new strategy due to their own procedures and entrenched way of doing business.
Also, at the time of project preparation, the DH only had technical specialists and had done very little work
on community development and software issues. However, they were well prepared to modify the
organizational structure and bring on board staff from the social sectors.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of Government, outside of the DH was unsatisfactory, leading to major delays in project
implementation. This was not only the case with the 14-month delay in obtaining project effectiveness, but
throughout project implementation there were problems with the timely availability of counterpart funds
and contract approvals.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the DH and DHAB was satisfactory during project implementation, despite a slow
start up. Project management was rated unsatisfactory only once during the seven-year implementation
period, and the DH took immediate corrective action to improve the situation. (Specifically, in 1999,
driving logs in vehicles were not filled out correctly, leading to an audit.) There was clear ownership of
the project by staff in the agencies at all levels, and a commitment to getting the job done. The overall
management of the national program by the DH could have benefited from greater delegation to staff in the
head office as well as in the regions. In terms of procurement and financial management, these were very
well handled, although there were slight slip ups at the end of the project due to the departure of the
consultant support on the financial management side, and the rush to get all contracts completed by the
project closing date.  The implementing agencies followed a very participatory style in engaging
stakeholders, especially within regions where there were frequent meetings among the SRH, SHAB, NGOs
and the private sector. Annual project reports were prepared and submitted in a timely manner, as were
quarterly reports from each of the departments.
- 15 -



Finally, the DH and DHAB did an excellent job of encouraging partnership and learning across
stakeholders (the World Bank, DANIDA, and WRSG-WA). This contributed to a realistic approach from
DH and DHAB in terms of identifying their shortcomings with an attitude to address them. This culminated
in a very frank and very timely DH and DHAB end-of-project evaluation, which shows their desire to learn
and continuously improve the sector strategy based on tangible results in the field.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above assessments, the Borrower's performance is considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following are lessons from project implementation:
1. Community Participation and Empowerment: The project made great strides in shifding investment
decisions away from the government to the community. However, once communities had prepared their
subproject request for water and deposited their financial contribution into the bank, they were not actively
engaged in project imple.mentation until the facilities were completed and subsequently transferred to the
community for operations and management. In many cases, there was a 2-3-year gap between a
subproject request for a water system and the initiation of works, which led to frustration and a sense of
disempowerment in some communities.
For future projects, the DH may want to learn from recent innovations in having the community more
involved in the procurement and construction process. Examples of these approaches include the processes
followed in the AGETIP and the Borgou pilot projects in Benin. The long-term goal for sustainable water
services is to establish a direct commercial link between the community, as demand and owner of its water
system, and the local private sector, as provider of goods and services. At the same time, it is important to
ensure that procurement processes capture economies of scale and ensure adherence to the technical
specifications and quality requirements of these specialized works.
2. A Clear Communications Strategy: The project start made use of mass media, combined with field
visits by NGOs, to generate community demand. However, the campaign then built up a database of
community requests over a prolonged period; communities grew frustrated when there was no timely
supply response. It also did not allow for a smooth implementation of the project, as the supply response
was all programmed during the last three years of implementation, overloading the administrative capacity
of the DH and DHAB.
A lesson from the project is therefore the need to have a clear assessment of the supply capacity (in terms
of both financial and physical resources), coupled with a flexible communications campaign. The campaign
must then be carefully dimnensioned to reach targeted areas, and include clear and well-publicized
prioritization rules that set out which communities would get served first. This type of batch programming
can then be repeated cyclically, based on demands received and the progress made in completing works in
the communities.
3. New Approaches to Sanitation and Hygiene: The project successfully showed that subsidy-free
household sanitation is possible. However, new methods to replicate this approach on a wider scale to
reach national coverage should be developed. In addition to helping latrine artisans create viable
businesses, the public sector can continue to support marketing a range of latrine options. Hygiene
promotion leading to behavioral change is a long, arduous process, where it is difficult to measure the
results.
- 16-



Lessons from the project show the benefits of using school children as an entry point to the community in
order to promote the benefits of latrines and handwashing. However, the challenges of working in
coordination within the ministries of education, health and water should not be under estimated. Hygiene
messages need to be fewer, clearer, and require definitions of baseline indicators.
4. Social Intermediation and the Role of all Actors: The project showed that achieving a major change
in functions of government agencies from implementor to facilitator is possible, as long as there is strong
political will and support. This change needs time, perseverance, continued capacity building of staff and
supporting management systems (i.e. financial management, MIS, etc). At the same time, changes in how
govenmnent functions also requires new roles for communities, as drivers of their own developmeq
process, and demanders, planners, owners and managers of their water and sanitation systems. Setting up
democratically-elected, representative community organizations to manage a service on behalf of the
community also takes time and requires not only training of the communities in new skills, but also training
of trainers working in the communities.
Lessons from the project show that communities need access to long-term backstopping and guidance on
issues, such as financial management and tariff setting, hygiene and sanitation promotion, pump mechanics,
and operations and maintenance. PADEAR's district-level access for communities includes NGOs, SRH,
SHAB, NGOs, local mechanics and spare parts shops, but links among these partners could be improved,
as communities are not always sure which is the most appropriate source for specific points of guidance.
5. Government and Donor Partnerships: The most important lesson learned has been that project
success was built on the basis of institutional partnerships, both those built between water supply in
DH/SRH and sanitation in DHAB/SHAB, and as well as those built at the level of international donors
through the PADEAR programmatic approach. UNICEF was an early and key partner and demonstrated
its commitment to the national strategy through its cessation of force account drilling. In addition, this
commitment has continued through its sanitation education for schools and communities, and guinea worm
eradication program efforts. DANIDA has also been a long-term partner in the PADEAR program, and is
currently working to strengthen DH management capacity. The national partnerships (DH/SRH and
DHAB/SHAB) required upfront investment in training, capacity-building activities, and policy reform, with
most of the physical investmnents occurring in the last 1-2 years of the project. The greatest single
achievement will be to have the PADEAR program remain in effect after IDA project closure, and to have
DH and DHAB continue to work with new partners and new partnerships as the lending environment
changes.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The DH and DHAB completed its own assessment report, which is attached in a brief form as Annex 10.
In addition, DH and DHAB provided comments on the draft French version of the text of the Bank's ICR,
which contributed to its improvement in final form. DH and DHAB sent a letter indicating their approval
of the Bank's ICR on June 15, 2001.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Selected comments from UNICEF:
It would be useful to include in the report information concerning the rate of coverage in water and
sanitation in the departments and sub-prefectures, who have benefitted from the project. This would
contribute to reinforce monitoring of the activities of the project and planning of other interventions in these
- 17 -



zones.
It would be suitable to draw out to the greatest extent the lessons learned during the course of the project,
to orient the actions of other projects as well as to enrich the revisiting of the national water and sanitation
strategy expected in the coming weeks. The sector as a whole should be reinforced in order to face up to
the demands placed on it as mentioned in the report: satisfaction of demands, and limitation of frustration
of communities; reaching communities most vulnerable (in terms of isolation and of poverty); effective
participation of women in community water management; augmentation of coverage at the level of family
latrines; changes in hygiene behavior; improvements in the quality of water of cisterns; and improvement of
the performance of service levels (NGOs, consulting firms, etc.).
UNICEF remains available to participate and facilitate the dialogue on these themes and on the review of
the water and sanitation national strategy. A workshop organized last May 28-29 in the context of a
mid-term review of the Benin-UNICEF program recommended the setup of a permanent framework among
those intervening in the sector, with a committee for coordination and regular meetings and an annual
review in the sector.
Again, thank you for sharing your report with us. We renew our willingness to reinforce our collaboration
in the water and sanitation sector to the benefit of the population of Benin.
Selected comments from DANIDA:
It is indicated (p.7) that for 34 boreholes, rehabilitation work had started, but had been suspended due to
high levels of nitrates (II boreholes) or the necessity to proceed to hydraulic fracturing in order to increase
yields (23 boreholes). Actually, in the follow-on project (financed by DANIDA), hydraulic fracturing is
currently planned for 23 boreholes (6 were already implemented in April 2001, 4 with positive results); a
study to determine the reasons for pollution problems is also planned.
Government's contribution of 43 percent for operating costs for DH, SRHs, SHAB has been paid as
counterpart funds in the PIP budget (p.12 para. 4.5). It should be noted that such funds are only available
for the national partners until the end of the project. These funds cannot assure the functioning and
sustainability of deconcentrated services over the long term. It is necessary to assure them an operating
budget in the national budget itself so that these institutions do not rely on external sources of aid.
There was a rush to get all contracts terminated before the close of the project. From DANIDA's point of
view, it would have been better to extend the project by six months in complete the works and contracts in
better conditions than those described.
In general, concerning cross-sectoral aspects, it has been noted that gender issues have not been taken into
account in the implementation manual.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
The table below includes the indicators from the Staff Appraisal Report. No baseline indicators or targets,
other than those defined in the SAR text, were included. Sources of community and household level
information are derived from CEDA-CREPA evaluation, commissioned by DH at the end of the project.
Monitoring Indicators                         Project Outputs
Effectiveness and sustainability of decentralized planning process
Ability of SRHs and NGOs to use participatory  18 trained staff members are able to effectively
methods                                       use participatory methods.
Effective use of self evaluation procedures   Procedures have been used effectively through
reports and quarterly meetings
Effectiveness in mobilizing communities       Over 500 community water committees formed
Number of rural systems constructed           323 completed; 120 partially completed; 162
water points with TA and community
development work
Number of schools and health centers enrolled in   296 school latrines and
sanitation program                            285 rainwater cistems constructed
Number of household latrines constructed      809 household latrines were constructed and sold
by trained artisans
Share of operating expenditures financed by   42 percent of DH operational budget funded by
budget                                        government
Development of private sector capacity
Number of qualified NGOS                      Six out of seven NGOs are qualified and continue
to work in sector
Number and performance of local drilling      2 companies took strong hold of the market
contractors
Number and performance of trained (latrine)   130 masons trained, 85 percent retention rate
masons and well diggers                    __L
Unit costs of facilities (water supply)       Cost reductions of up to 50 percent on drilling
Number and performance of pump mechanics      38 mechanics trained and 88 percent of users are
satisfied with their performance
Availability of spare parts and after sales service   11 centers sell spare parts
Ownership and community management offacilities
Number of active water committees             571 active committees
Women's involvement in key positions          Two women per 6-member committee, mostly in
charge of hygiene
Availability rate of water systems            99 percent of systems have water available
throughout the year
Cost recovery and revenue collection          65 percent communities practice "pay as you
fetch," 94 percent have a bank account
- 19 -



Use and impact offacilities
Consumption of water dry/rainy season          21 Vlhab./day compared to 11.5 I/hab./day during
the dry season
Number of users of on-site sanitation facilities  800 household latrines; 42,000 users in schools;
111,000 in health centers.
Water quality                                  Major problems with the quality of rainwater
cisterns, open wells and boreholes are certified
for potability
Upkeep of water point surrounds and sullage    90 percent of water points well maintained,
control                                        although only 47 percent of soak-away pits
properly functioning
Water, hygiene and excreta disposal practices  65 percent of households said to have received
(household level)                             hygiene messages from NGO; 82 percent cover
drinking water container, 79 percent have clean
container, only 28 percent have separate cup for
scooping water, only 17 percent have soap near
latrine
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
roject Cost by Component (in US$ million euivalent)
.Apprasal    ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Esimate       Estimnate      Appraisal
-Project Cosst.Cyoomponent             US milion    US$ million            -
l.a. Civil works for water supplies                   5.02            4.09             82
1.b. Civil works for sanitation facilities            1.21            0.65             54
2.a. Equipment for water supplies                     0.60            0.49             81
2.b. Supply of handpumps                              1.39            1.47            106
2.c. Equipment and vehicles for DH and DHA            0.25            0.77            313
3. Consulting services, training and technical assistance  2.49       2.74            110
4. Training                                           0.66            0.75            114
5. Operating costs                                    0.94            0.99            105
6. PPF refinancing                                    1.17            0.74             63
7. Unallocated                                        1.27            0.00              0
Total Baseline Cost                                  15.00           12.69
Total Project Costs             15.00           12.69
Total Financing Required              15.00           12.69
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ProcurementVaUthod
Expenditure Category                    NcM                                   Totil st6.
1. Works                      4.62          1.87         0.44          0.00         6.93
(3.14)        (0.98)       (0.22)        (0.00)       (4.34)
2. Goods                      1.50          0.42         0.27          0.20         2.39
(1.02)        (0.27)       (0.17)        (0.00)       (1.46)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         3.52          0.00         3.52
(0.00)        (0.00)       (2.39)        (0.00)       (2.39)
4. Operating costs            0.00          0.00         0.77          0.22         0.99
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.44)        (0.00)       (0.44)
5. PPF refinancing            0.00          0.00          1.17         0.00         1.17
______________________      (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.17)        (0.00)       (1.17)
Total                      6.12          2.29          6.17         0.42         15.00
(4.16)        (1.25)       (4.39)        (0.00)       (9.80)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                               0.00              4.88              0.26             0.08             5.22
(0.00)            (3.32)           (0.18)            (0.00)           (3.50)
2. Goods                               1.39              0.70              0.09             0.06             2.24
_______________________     (0.97)            (0.48)            (0.05)            (0.00)          (1.50)
3. Services                            0.00              2.73              0.75             0.00             3.48
(0.00)            (1.88)           (0.54)            (0.00)           (2.42)
4. Operating costs                     0.00              0.00              1.00             0.00              1.00
(0.00)            (0.00)           (0.44)            (0.00)           (0.44)
5. PPF refinancing                     0.00              0.65              0.07             0.02             0.74
________________________    (0.00)            (0.65)            (0.07)            (0.00)          (0.72)
Total                               1.39              8.96             2.17              0.16            12.68
(0.97)            (6.33)           (1.28)            (0.00)           (8.58)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
I1ncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Components
Disbursements by Category            III                                    _____
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)            Actual (US  million)  ___Percentage
Components          IDA  DANIDA Govt. Ben ef  Total  IDA  DANIDA  Govt Benef. Total of Appraisal
A. Rural water supply       3.47     1.66           0.49   5.62   3.04      1.44          0.10   4.58        82%
B. S§upp'ly ofh,a,n"d-p,umps"    0'.94"   0-.4,5   "       I.3- 9      1. 0-i   0-.4'6'           1.4-7 i'_10'6 ..%
C. §a'ni_ta_tio'n           0.63"  06.3-0          0-.2-8  1,.-21, "0_.'4_5    0-.2-0            0-.6-5      5_4"%
D). ,a,p,a,cit,y b"uiid-in"g  2-.66 . i.....12'3_ -. .4,5  4'.3'4  _3_.3_5_"  1i.40,  0.505.25              i1
E. PPF refinancing -  1.17    ~ ~ ~ ~~~I1.1    0.72                 0.02074-                  6%
F. Unallo'cated-            0.93     0.3'4                  1 .27   0.00    0.00                 0o.00        0%V/
Total                       9.80     3.981  0.451  0.77  15.001  8.57.   3.501  0.521  0.101 12.691          85
Percentage                  65%      27% 13%1  5%   1%            6%       28% 14% 11% IJ00&% 
- 22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No net present value or economic rates of return were calculated at the time of the SAR, although benefits
were justified in terms of time savings, improved health, and development of private sector activities. No
baseline data was collected in order to assess time savings and improved health attributable to the project.
The SAR did introduce qualitative concepts of cost recovery, not only through capital costs of basic
service, but also in community financing of maintenance costs. Willingness-to-pay surveys financed in the
PPF phase helped to establish technology choices and community financing systems to be set up through
FMPs.
Anecdotal evidence collected during the ICR field mission interviews indicated that most PADEAR
communities have experienced time savings per bucket collected, with the PADEAR facility sited much
closer than the dry-season pre-PADEAR altemative. These time savings did not, however, translate
directly to increased informal sector activities and greater opportunities for education and training, as noted
in the SAR. Most female heads of household and other girls interviewed noted that their time saved
fetching water was transferred to other household chores, either in fetching wood, working on the farm,
completing laundry, etc.
Development of the private sector accrued through the capacity-building component of the project may
have contributed the largest single effort in terms of providing additional employment opportunities and
secondary demands for materials in related local markets. One would need to conduct an analysis of
project data to balance the demand for private-sector jobs and materials created due to the project at the
expense of those cut on the public sector side.
-23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/1992                     3   1 Economist (TL), I Engineer, I
Community Development
Specialist
06/1992                     2   1 Economist (TL), I Engineer
10/1992                     2   1 Economist (TL), I Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/1993                     9   1 TL, I Economist, 2
Engineers, 2 Comm. Dev.
Specs., I Sanitation Spec., I
Consultant, I DANIDA staff
06/1993                     9   1, TL, I Economist, 2 Engineers,
2 Comm. Dev. Specs., I
Sanitation Spec., I Consultant, I
DANIDA staff
11/93                       6   1 TL, 2 Engineers, I Comm.
Dev. Spec, I Sanitation Spec.
Supervision
06/1994                     3   1 TL, I Engineer, 1                S            S
Community Dev. Specialist
03/1995                     3   1 TL, I Sanitation Spec., I        S            S
Engineer (Consultant)
06/1995                     2   1 TL, I Engineer (Cons.)           S            S
01/1996                     3   1 TL, I Comm. Dev. Spec., 1        S            S
Engineer (Cons.)
02/1996                     3   1 TL, I Comm. Dev. Spec., I        S            S
Engineer (Cons.)
12/1996                     3   1 TL, I Comm. Dev. Spec., I        S            S
Engineer (Cons.)
11/1997                     3   1 TL, I Comm. Dev. Spec., I        S            S
Engineer
05/1998                     1   1 Engineer                         S            S
03/1999                     2   1 TL, I Comm. Dev. Spec.           S            S
10/1999                     2   1 TL, I Comm. Dev. Spec.           S            S
06/2000                     3   1 TL, I ICR Prep., I Hygiene
Gender
10/2000                     2   1 Comm. Dev. Consultant            S            S
ICR
02/2001                     4    1 Economist, I Comm. Dev.         S            S
Specialist, I Engineer, I
Institutional Dev. Spec.
- 24 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               46.4                        116.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                     21.1                        58.2
Supervision                              120.7                       351.2
ICR                                        9.0                        28.4
Total                                    197.2                       554.1
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
3 Physical                                 O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
f Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            O H OSU*M O N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
X Private sector development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management                 0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
N Lending                                            OHSOS OU OHU
N Supervision                                        OHSOS  OU  OHU
FZ Overall                                           OHS OS   OU  OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
? Preparation                                        *HS OS   O U  O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  OHS * s O U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS Ou O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Note pour l'evaluation du projet d'assistance au developpement du secteur de l'eau potable et de 1'
assainissement en milieu rural, PADEAR IDA-DANIDA, M. Placide Appalo, Coordonateur du
PADEAR, Cotonou, le 18 fevrier 2001 (4 pages)
2. Fiches d'informations sur PADEAR IDA-DANIDA: Renseignements relatifs aux pompes a motricite
humaine, prevision d'utilisation des pompes restantes sur le PADEAR-IDA/DANIDA (AFRIDEV:
785 ; Vergnet: 308) ; Point des participations communautaires ; Fiche de Suivi Individuel des Contrats
(Version Juin 2000) ; Situation des Entreprises et Bureaux d'Etudes au 31 decembre 2000 ; Listes et
dates des Marches SRH Atlantique (manuscrit-27 fevrier, 2001)
3. Etude sur la repartition des couts operationnels, le cofit unitaire des equipements, le recouvrement des
cofits et la gestion des recettes. Mission d'appui a l'evaluation du projet PADEAR IDA-DANIDA.
Rapport d'etude consultant: Alexis A. Bokodaho, Cotonou, decembre 2000 (22 pages et annexes)
4. Etude sur la qualite de l'eau. Rapport d'etude. Groupement CEDA-CREPA, Consultant Adrien
Affogbolo, Cotonou, decembre 2000 (13 pages et annexes)
5. Enquete assainissement dans les centres de sante et ecoles dans le cadre de l'appui a l'evaluation du
PADEAR IDA-DANIDA. Rapport d'etude Groupement CEDA-CREPA consultant Alexandre Biaou,
Cotonou, d6cembre 2000 (23 pages et annexes)
6. Appui a l'evaluation du projet PADEAR IDA DANIDA dans les regions Zou Atlantique Rapport d'
ctudes provisoire Cotonou decembre 2000 Groupement CEDA CREPA (56 pages et annexes)
7. Appui a l'evaluation du projet PADEAR IDA DANIDA dans les regions Zou Atlantique Rapport d'
etudes Cotonou, decembre 2000 Groupement CEDA CREPA (15 pages et annexes)
8. Rapport de fin d'execution du Marche PADEAR relatif au 23 forages d'exploitation et 4 sondages de
Reconnaissance dans le departement du Zou, SOCAFOR Doc. # 2595, 22-06-99
9. Set d'information technique sur les hydropompes Vergnet
10. Liste des points de vente des pieces de pompe Vergnet au Benin
11. Note de synthese des resultats, impacts, difficultes/perspectives du projet IDA-DANIDA departement
de l'Atlantique, fevrier 2001 (6 pages)
12. Liste des ouvrages PADEAR dans la Region Atlantique, SRH-Atlantique, fevrier 2001
13. Evaluation du projet PADEAR (financement IDA-DANIDA) dans les departements de l'Atlantique et
le Zou, fevrier 2001 (10 pages)
14. La mise en ceuvre d'une filiere privee dans le secteur de 1'eau et de l'Assainissement rural au Benin,
rapport preliminaire, Luiz Fabbri/GREA, janvier 2001
15. Enquete village - Evaluation projet PADEAR rapport d'etude Cotonou janvier 2001. Consultant
Alexandre Biaou et Pascal Megnigbeto
16. Rapport de selection des laureats PADEAR IDA DANIDA Activites recreatives, Edition 2000.
- 28 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
SUMMARY
Achievement of objectives: Social mobilization created a favorable setting for communities to play an
effective role in the water supply and sanitation subprojects. During phase 1, the decision-making process
has taken longer than initially planned, and implementation of phase 2 lasted 77 months instead of 30
months. The rural water supply and sanitation strategy, as defined in the project, was effectively put in
place for works financed by IDA-DANIDA and for other works financed by other donors.
Indicators: DHAB had defined measurable follow-up indicators. The supervision of the project was done
based on reports from ONGs, quarterly reports by SRH-SHAP, consultant reports and quarterly meetings.
Impact of the project: The impact of the project is important in terms of capacity reinforcement, better
water supply and sanitation, better hygiene and health, welfare of population, especially for women and
girls, and the promotion of development activities.
Performance: Overall performance of DH and DHAB in the execution of the project can be considered as
very satisfactory. Overall performance of the technical assistance to the Coordination unit and the
development partners in the execution of the project can be considered satisfactory, and in some cases, very
satisfactory, although at the beginning of the project, the TA and GREA were having problems to
implement the innovative pilot operation.
Formulation of the project: Due to the innovative approach of the project, it was difficult to supervise.
Most of the information could have been presented in a study annexed to a short project document in a
more structured and conventional format.
Lessons learned: The innovative project which aimed at implementing the sector policy on a broad basis
and the approach used for realization of works and results achieved by the project, have allowed the
Borrower to acquire significant assets and to draw lessons from the project.
-29 -



Evaluation du proj et PADEAR
(Financement IDA-DANIDA)
dans les Departements de l'Atlantique et du Zou
Cotonou, fevrier 2001
Table de matieres - Rapport sommaire
0 - CONTEXTE ET METHODOLOGIE
0.1 - Contexte
0.2 - Methodologie
I - EVALUATION DE LA REALISATION DU PROJET
1.1 - Niveau de realisation des objectifs vises
1.2   - Niveau de realisation des indicateurs de suivi
1.3   - Evaluation de l'impact du projet
II - EVALUATION DE LA PERFORMANCE DE LA DH ET DE LA DHAB DANS L'EXECUTION DU
PROJET
2.1 - Realisation globale du projet
2.2 - Organisation, mise en ceuvre et gestion du projet
III - EVALUATION DE LA PERFORMANCE DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE ET DES AGENCES DE
COOPERATION AU DEVELOPPEMENT DANS L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
3.1 - Resultats de 1'evaluation de la performance de structures d'assistance technique
3.2 - Resultats de l'evaluation de la performance des agences de cooperation au developpement
IV - APPRECIATION DE LA FORMULATION DU PROJET
4.1 - La formulation en tant que projet
4.2 - Les contenus
4.3 - La methodologie d'61aboration.
V - LES ACQUIS ET LES LECONS
- 30 -



SIGLES
AEPA               Approvisionnement en eau potable et assainissement
AGEFIB             Agence de financement des initiatives a la base
AT                 Assistance technique
BE                 Bureau d'etudes
BIT                Bureau international du travail
BM/WB              Banque mondiale/World Bank
CCPS               Cellule de concertation, de programmation et de suivi
Ceda               Centre pour l'environnement et le developpement en Afrique
CGPE               Comite de gestion du point d'eau
CLCAM              Caisse locale de credit mutuelle agricole
COGEC/COGES        Comite de gestion du complexe communal de sante/de la sous-prefecture
CREPA              Centre regional pour l'eau et l'assainissement a faible cofit
CS                 Centre de sante
DANIDA             Fonds de cooperation danoise
DDCEP              Departement du developpement communautaire, des etudes et de la programmation
DH                 Direction de l'Hydraulique
DHAB               Direction de l'Hygiene et de l'Assainissement de Base
DIEPA              Decennie internationale pour l'eau potable et l'assainissement
DPSAEP             Departement de la Promotion et du Suivi de l'approvisionnement en eau potable
EA                 Eau et assainissement
EAEP               Equite pour l'assainissement et l'approvisionnement en eau potable
EDS                Enquete demographique et de sante
EP                 Eau potable
EPP                Ecole primaire publique
FNUAP              Fonds des Nations Unies pour la Population
GREA               Groupe regional de l'eau et de l'assainissement
IDE                Institut de developpement economique de la Banque mondiale
IEC                Information, education, communication
IOV                Indicateur objectivement verifiable
IRED               Innovations et reseau pour le developpement
ONG                Organisation non gouvernementale
PC                 Projet communautaire
PEA                Poste d'eau autonome
PHAST              Participation a la transformation de l'hygiene et de l'assainissement (Participatory Hygiene
and Sanitation Transformation)
PILSA              Promotion des initiatives locales de securite alimentaire
PIPO               Programmation des interventions par objectif
PRODOC             Document de projet
PROWWESS           Promotion du r6le des femmes dans les services d'approvisionnement en eau et
assainissement (Promotion of the role of women in water and environmental sanitation)
RDC                Responsable du developpement communautaire
RGPH               Recensement general de la population et de l'habitation
SARAR              Estime de soi, force d'association, esprit d'initiative, planification de l'action, et
responsabilite (Self-esteem, Associative strengths, Ressourcefulness, Action-planning and
responsibility)
SEAG               Service d'echanges et d'appui a la gestion
SHAB               Service de l'Hygiene et de l'Assainissement de Base
SNV                Organisation neerlandaise de developpement
SRH                Service regional de l'Hydraulique
TdR                Termes de reference
VIP                Latrine a fosse ventil6e
ZOPP               Programmation de projet par objectif
- 31 -



INTRODUCTION: CONTEXTE ET METHODOLOGIE
0.1 - Contexte : Le projet fait suite A l'elaboration de la strategie nationale d'approvisionnement en eau potable en
milieu rural, adoptee en 1992 en application des recommandations du bilan de la premiere DIEPA (New Delhi,
1991) ; il accompagne l'elaboration et l'approbation de la politique nationale d'assainissement (1995). Le projet a
et elabore et mis en ceuvre apres la transition politique de 1990, periode d'emergence d'une societe civile et du
secteur prive.
0.2 - Methodologie : Les etapes ci-apres ont ete suivies: Analyse documentaire, entretiens avec des acteurs, etudes
specifiques et enquete de terrain (echantillon 34 ouvrages), redaction, atelier sur les indicateurs de performance et
restitution.
I - EVALUATION DE LA REALISATION DU PROJET
1.1 - Niveau de realisation des objectifs vises
1.1.1 - Objectif qualitatif : mettre en place un contexte favorable A la prise en charge de l'eau potable et
lPhygi6ne du milieu par les populations concernees
*       vL'ex6cution correcte de la mobilisation sociale a cree un contexte favorable qui a permis aux
communautes de jouer effectivement leur partition montrant une appropriation significative des ouvrages d'AEPA.
*      Pour consolider cette avancee, il existe des domaines oui un renforcement est encore possible. Pour ce
faire, il faut:
-      Reduire la distance aux points de vente des pieces de rechange pour les pompes afin d'ameliorer le temps
de reparation (les points de vente existant sont au nombre de: 3 pour Vergnet et I pour Verra dans l'Atlantique, 9
pour Verra dans le Zou);
-      Ameliorer la proprete autour des points d'eau (46% des puits perdus ne fonctionnent pas correctement);
-      Reorienter l'education sanitaire en utilisant aussi les methodes SARAR et PHAST;
-      Sensibiliser la population pour la vente de l'eau ; actuellement 66% des comites de gestion vendent l'eau
et 48% utilisent regulierement leur compte en banque;
-      Faire remonter les informations sur l'etat des ouvrages et des comites en vue de l'etablissement d'un bilan
periodique de synthese;
-      Orienter la composante "developpement communautaire" et les pratiques participatives du personnel des
ONG sur le financement endogene, la gestion, I'hygiene et la sante.
1.1.2 - Objectif "quantitatif" : une phase de reflexion et une phase de realisation de travaux
Evaluation phase 1
*      D'une duree plus longue que prevu, la phase de reflexion a prepare le demarrage des realisations ; le
developpement communautaire et autres nouveautes ont ete integrees et la formation initiale realisee pour les
entreprises, les BE et la DH-DHAB .
Evaluation Phase 2
*      Elle a dure 77 mois au lieu de 30 mois initialement prevus. La mobilisation des participations financieres
par les communautes, 1'elaboration des dossiers techniques (appels d'offres) et la passation des marches ont pris
plus de temps que prevus;
*      Les moyens d'information les plus efficaces etaient les reunions communautaires (39%), la radio (32%) et
les seances d'animation (17%). Les supports visuels pour les communautes etaient bien apprecies, mais pas
toujours disponibles.
*      Sur 1 705 demandes de points d'eau reque, 1481 etaient attribuees aux ONG pour l'etude de milieu, les
autres etant classees (demandes privees etc.) et les interesses informes ; 1 025 demandes ont abouti A la validation
de l'etude de milieu et 658 a un projet communautaire, les dossiers n'ayant pas ete menes a terme principalement a
- 32 -



cause de la non-mobilisation des participations a l'investissement.
*      Les 658 projets communautaires ont ete elabores par les ONG avec les communautes ainsi que 296 projets
avec les ecoles et centres de sante. Le temps qui separe l'aboutissement des projets communautaires et la realisation
des travaux etait juge trop long par les communautes. Les participations financieres sont immobilisees dans les
CLCAM;
*      Le travail participatif des animateurs et coordinateurs des ONG a ete ameliore par les interventions de
Helvetas;
*      Les artisans-macons formes par le projet ont construit les latrines et citemes dans les ecoles et centres de
sante apres la defaillance des entreprises sur le volet assainissement. Grace au marketing, ils construisent des
latrines familiales A la demande des populations, sans subventions;
*      La construction des ouvrages d'approvisionnement en eau (puits, forage, AEV, PEA) a ete realisee par des
entreprises nationales grace a des travaux en petits lots ; par contre, les regroupements d'ouvriers par corps de
metier n'ont pas fait l'objet d'une promotion specifique.
1.1.3 - Objectif institutionnel: mettre en pratique la strategie de developpement de
l'alimentation en eau et de l'assainissement en zone rurale
Evaluation
*      La strategie etait effectivement mise en cuvre pour l'ensemble des travaux finances par IDA-DANIDA et
aussi pour des travaux finances par d'autres agences de cooperation (UNICEF, Cooperation japonaise et francaise,
HCR), le projet ayant prevu cette demarche.
1.1.1.1 - Desengagement de l'Etat des tdches d'execution
*      L'Etat ne realise plus les travaux de construction, d'implantation des ouvrages et le controle des
entreprises. Les marches ont ete passe avec les Bureaux d'Etudes et les Entreprises;
*      Un appui institutionnel important a ete apporte aux SRH et SHAB (personnel, equipement, locaux, budget
de fonctionnement, suivi);
*      La formation du personnel aux nouveaux r6les et taches a eu lieu, surtout par un apprentissage sur le tas.
1.1.1.2 - Promotion du secteurprive national
*      Tous les travaux sont executes par les secteurs prive et associatif, sauf la preparation des appels d'offres
qui a ete faite A partir des dossiers types elabores par le projet. II a ete procede A l'attribution de travaux en petits
lots, avec 1'entr6e en scene des operateurs nationaux, et un appui aux entreprises retenues et la formation des
ONG. Toutefois, on pourrait ameliorer la reponse aux autres besoins d'appui (organisation de chantier et des
travaux, etudes techniques, programmation, gestion), appui financier, equipement.
*      II y a eu une emergence rapide des entreprises et Bureaux d'Etudes, mais les performances peuvent etre
ameliorees dans certains cas (gestion et organisation de chantier, delais d'ex6cution, meilleure estimations des prix,
renforcement de competences techniques, acces aux equipements necessaires, appuis financiers). II sera utile d'
instaurer un minimum de regulation du marche pour eviter la concurrence sauvage qui " casse les prix ".
Les 6 ONG qui ont assure la mobilisation sociale, ont eu une bonne performance, mais il y a une
mobilite des animateurs et/ou des problemes institutionnels intemes dans 2 d'entre eux.
Les 130 artisans-macons formes ont une tres bonne performance sur le plan technique, des delais et du
marketing. Les 36 artisans-r6parateurs de pompes formes ont une bonne performance.
1.1.1.3   - Decentralisation du processus de prise de decision
Plusieurs decisions sont devolues aux communautes, notamment celle de la construction d'un point d'eau
et de latrines dans les ecoles et centres de sante ;toutefois, le choix du type d'ouvrage est limite par les facteurs
techniques dans la zone de socle.
*      Une deconcentration importante de la decision a eu lieu aux SRH-SHAB sur la base de la subsidiarites
avec le renforcement des capacites et un travail en equipe SRH et SRH-SHAB. La deconcentration financiere a ete
effective pour les petits marches (citemes, latrines). Les marches plus importants sont soumis A la reglementation
en vigueur (cf. code des marches publics).
*      Le suivi des communautes a ete completement deconcentre aux SRH-SHAB. Ce travail est A renforcer afin
- 33 -



de suivre regulierement la situation des ouvrages, les comites et leur situation financiere, I'hygiene et
l'assainissement.
*       Les delais de passation des marches ont ete juges trop longs par les operateurs prives et les communautes.
1.1.1.4 - Participation effective des communautis rurales, en particulier par une participation financi&re
significative
*       La participation financiere de la communaute A l'investissement initial est effective. Des facilites de
paiement ont ete toutefois accordees A des communautes ou le ver de Guinee est endemique (paiement en 2 temps
de la participation financiere).
1.1.1.5 - Recherche de nouvelles options technologiquespour riduire les codts de
construction
La reduction des couts a ete recherchee A travers le recours aux entreprises nationales, aux macons et la
limitation des puits A 50 m de profondeur (A partir de 2000), A l'utilisation de citemes hors-sol dans les ecoles et les
centres de sante.
Les couts unitaires etaient de 4,2 millions FCFA pour un forage et 8 millions FCFA pour un puits en 1991
ils sont de 5,2 millions FCFA et 9,7 millions FCFA respectivement dans le projet (periode 1997-2000), malgre la
devaluation de 50% du FCFA (janvier 1994) et l'inflation.
*       La reduction du cout des latrines familiales est effective avec l'utilisation des dalles sanplat et le choix de
modele Mozambique.
1.1.1.6 - Promotion d'ouvrages d'assainissement afaible codt
Plusieurs initiatives ont ete entreprises avec succes : utilisation de materiaux locaux ; formation de macons
locaux independants ; education sanitaire dans les communautes, pour susciter la decision de construire une
latrine.
1.1.1. 7 - Systimatisation des actions d'iducation sanitaire
*       Le predominance du secteur eau au debut du projet a ete progressivement corrigee au profit de
l'assainissement.
*       Apres la revue A mi-parcours, les activites suivantes ont ete menees: recyclage du personnel des ONG et
renforcement de l'education sanitaire ; bonne promotion de l'assainissement familiale et diffusion de materiel
didactique A 75% des communautes.
*       Aujourd'hui, les idees sont mures pour ameliorer les pratiques d'hygiene.
1.2 - Niveau de realisation des indicateurs de suivi
Une liste succincte des "indicateurs de suivi" figure dans l'evaluation ex ante (World Bank 1994).
1.2.1 - Modalites de suivi des indicateurs
Realisations
*       Les indicateurs de suivi ont et traduits en francais pour faciliter leur comprehension. La DHAB a elabore
des indicateurs de suivi mesurables.
Le suivi du projet a ete realise A travers les rapports des travaux des ONG, les rapports trimestriels de la
SRH-SHAB, les rapports des consultants et les reunions trimestrielles.
*       Un service charge de Suivi et de I'Evaluation a ete cree en 1999 par la Direction de l'Hydraulique ; les
questions de suivi en ont ete rappeles lors des reunions de 2000.
- 34 -



1.2.2 Niveau de realisation des indicateurs de suivi
Situation par rapport a l'indicateur
Processus de planification decentralisee effectif et durable
Capacite des SRH et ONG a utiliser des methodes participatives (possibilites de prendre des dicisions, organisation
mise en place pour prendre des dicisions, acces a l'information, mithodes de travail de la DH-DHAB)
-     Le travail participatif est effectif au sein des SRH (travail en equipe, bchanges et concertation entre divisions,
bilan de l'execution et reprogrammation) et avec les ONG (reunions de travail et de concertation) ; la totalite des
personnes pr6sentes dans les entretiens d'evaluation (18 personnes des SRH, SHAB et ONG) mai^trise les principes de
la participation
L'apport du developpement communautaire a ete determinant avec I'animation et organisation effective de 658
communautes;
24 animateurs ont assimile les methodes participatives.
Les methodes d'education sanitaire font encore "passer le message" au lieu de le faire decouvrir
Utilisation effective des procidures d'auto-ivaluation
-     Une demarche d'auto-6valuation est utilisee effectivement a travers les rapports et les reunions trimestrielles
au niveau des SRH, SHAB, DH, DHAB, ONG;
-     L'autoevaluation pourrait etre amelioree, notamment par une formalisation de la methode
Capaciti/effectiviti de mobilisation des communautis
1025 demandes de points d'eau ont e  validees par une etude du milieu; 658 projets communautaires ont ete
elabores ; le projet n'a pas abouti dans 367 communautes pour les raisons suivantes: retards de mobilisation de fonds:
pauvret6 surtout hors zones cotonnieres, faiblesse de l'animation, conflits intemes etc;
487 demandes de latrines dans les ecoles et centres de sante ont 6te valides et 296 ont abouti a des projets
communautaires;
Chacun des 571 points d'eau est gere par un comite fonctionnel ; 66% vendent l'eau
66% des usagers transportent l'eau sans mettre de feuilles dans les bassines.
Nombre d'ouvrages construits (NB : l'evaluation ex ante indique "nombre depoints d'eau construits")
Previsions du projet: 10 AEV et 290 points d'eau + 200 sur d'autres fonds  500 points d'eau
Realisation: 23 AEV et 571 points d'eau dont:
- Fonds IDA-DANIDA: 6 AEV et 409 points d'eau (forages, puits, rehabilitation);
- Autres financements selon l'approche PADEAR: 17 AEV et 162 points d'eau (UNICEF, Japon IV, Agence
Francaise de Developpement)
88 dossiers de Projet Communautaire sont en attente
Nombre d'icoles et de centres de santi inscrits au programme d'assainissement
310 latrines prevues;
296 blocs de latrines ont e  construites (soit 1 003 cabines) avec creation de comite de sante (ecoles) ou
gestion par le centre de sante
Nombre de latrines privies construites
Pas de prevision dans le PRODOC;
-     809 latrines familiales ont ete construites sans subventions par des artisans formes et probablement plus de
2 800 autres par leurs assistants et apprentis
- 35 -



Nombre de citernes construites
20 citernes prevues pour les communautes;
285 citemes ont ete construites dans les ecoles et les centres de sante.
Part des couts operationnelsflnances par le budget (part de ia contrepartie, part des contributions villageoises
financiere ou en nature)
Repartition du cout total: gouvemement: 4,46% (3% prevus) ; communautes: 0,95% (5% prevus avec
ajustement en fonction des resultats des etudes sur la volonte a payer)
Repartition des cofits operationnels (= fonctionnement) : gouvernement : 43,7% (42% prevus); IDA: 42,6 %;
DANIDA: 13,7%
Developpement des capacites du secteur prive (et associatif)
Nombre d'ONG qualifiees (criteres retenus: organisation, traitement des employes, support et suivi des employes
et pour les animateurs)
7 ONG ont ete retenues au depart sur la base de l'implantation geographique, des interventions aupres de la
population, d'activite dans le domaine d'AEPA ou un domaine proche (sante,...);
6 ONG ont effectivement assure l'intermediation sociale: 3 sont bien qualifiees, 2 sont moyennement
qualifiees et I est affaiblie par des problemes intemes.
Nombre etperformance du secteurprive (entreprises depuits, deforage et bureaux d'etudes)
3 entreprises de puits sur 9 et 2 entreprises de forage sur 3 ont les capacites techniques necessaires
(equipement) et une assise financiere, une bonne organisation et gestion de chantier
-     3 Bureaux d'Etudes pour l'implantation et le contr6le des travaux de forage et 2 pour les puits ont une
performance satisfaisante
130 macons construisent les latrines familiales ; certains parmi eux construisent les blocs de latrines dans les
ecoles et centres de sante de qualite adequate.
Nombre etperformance des macons et des puisatiersformes
130 macons formms en construction de latrines de citemes hors-sol et en marketing plus les ouvriers et
apprentis formes par eux font preuve d'une performnance exceptionnelle de dynamisme et d'initiatives (31% des
familles ont et informees par les macons)
12 entreprises de puits ont e  formees sur les appels d'offres, l'organisation des chantiers, la gestion des
entreprises et 5 d'entre eux ont effectue un voyage d'etude au Burkina-Faso;
Codts unitaires des equipements (eau et assainissement)
Coujt moyen des ouvrages ( forage: 5,2 millions FCFA; puits: 9,7 millions FCFA; borne fontaine dans un
AEV : 8,4 millions FCFA).
CoEt d'une citeme (20 m3): 650 000 FCFA
Cofit d'un bloc de latrines (4 cabines VIP) : 847 000 FCFA
Nombre etperformance des reparateurs (artisans regionaux)
38 artisans reparateurs ont ete formes (Vergnet: 10 et Afridev 16 dans le Zou; 12 pour les pompes Vergnet et
Afridev dans I'Atlantique
Satisfaction des utilisateurs dans 88% des cas; 30% des reparations durent 3 jours ou plus.
- 36 -



Disponibilitei des pieces dftachees et efficacite du service apres-vente
-     3 points de vente de pieces Vergnet et I point Afridev ont et crees dans I'Atlantique et 9 points de vente de
pieces Afridev dans le Zou oui Vergnet se propose de se servir des points de vente de Veffa
*24% des comites trouvent les pieces de rechange au chef-lieu de la sous-prefecture, 27% dans une autre ville,
14% a Cotonou et 3% au SRH (7% pas de reponse)
Quelques ruptures de stock sont observees dans les points de vente decentralises.
Appropriation et gestion communautaire des installations
Nombre de comites actifs (criteres: reunions, information des populations, vente de l'eau, proprete du point d'eau,
education sanitaire)
-     Chacun des 571 points d'eau a un comite actif dont 18 associations des usagers d'eau pour les AEV, tous
suivis par des ONG et les RDC des SRH
Les ONG forment les structures de gestion sur le fonctionnement, 1'entretien, I'administration, la gestion de
fonds et l'hygiene
-     98% des habitants connaissent le comit ; 96% pensent qu'il fait un bon travail;
-     Une reunion d'informnation a lieu tous les 2 mois ou moins dans 54% des structures de gestion.
Nombre defemmes impliquees dans lespositions clis
-     11 y a en moyenne: 4 hommes et 2 femmes par comite ; dans 9 cas sur 10, les femmes sont responsables de
I'hygiene ou sont des relais communautaires
La femme est trksoriere dans 13% des comites, secretaire ou presidente dans 4,5%
Taux defonctionnalite des systemes d'eau (technique et gestion)
46% des pompes n'ont pas eu de panne ; 46% ont entre 1-3 pannes ; 8% ont eu 4 pannes ou plus
La duree moyenne des pannes est de 2 jours, mais 16% des menages sont prives de l'eau pour 3 jours ou plus
Le taux de fonctionnalite sur un an est tres eleve (99,4%)
Recouvrement des cofits et gestion des recettes
69% des menages paient 1'eau potable consommee a la pompe;
Le prix moyen de la bassine (30 1) est de 10 FCFA
52% des comites deposent rarement des recettes dans leur compte (plusieurs comites remboursent un emprunt
contracte pour payer la participation financiere a l'investissement initial).
-     Les recettes couvrent le fonctionnement et l'entretien au niveau de 63% des comites ; le fonctionnement et le
renouvellement au niveau de 11% des comites.
Utilisation et impact des investissements
Consommation en saison siche et saison pluvieuse par rapport a l'objectifde 15-20 litres parjour
-     Consommation en saison seche est 21 1/hab./j par rapport a 11,5 l/hab./j auparavant (pas de donn6es saison de
pluies)
7% des menages consomment de l'eau non potable ; en saison des pluies, 13% consomment les eaux de pluie
Le point d'eau est plus proche des menages: 73% a une distance inferieure a 500 m par rapport a 29%
auparavant
- 37 -



Nombre d'utilisateurs en saison sehe et saison pluvieuse
Le nombre d'utilisateurs des points d'eau est estime a au moins 195 000 en saison seche et 160 000 (moins
19%) en saison des pluies
En saison des pluies, 21% des consommateurs abandonnent le puits et le forage pour consommer 1'eau de pluie
Nombre d'utilisateurs des latrines
Les utilisateurs sont estimes a 17 000 pour les latrines familiales ; 42 000 enfants dans les ecoles et 111 000
dans le centres de sante
Qualite de l'eau
99% des utilisateurs considerent que l'eau est bonne
Le taux de nitrites et nitrates dans une trentaine de forages dans le Nord du departement du Zou depasse les
normes admises
-    Certains puits et citemes sont pollues par des coliformes totaux
Entretien des abords du point d'eau
En general, tres bon entretien, mais 47% des puits perdus ne fonctionnent pas correctement
Entretien des ouvrages d'assainissement
Les dalles, sols et murs sont propres au niveau de 80% des latrines (et chez 8% des menages)
Pratiques d'hygiene pour l'eau et l'assainissement
65% des menages ne mettent pas de feuilles dans la bassine pour transporter l'eau
80% des menages gardent 1'eau a la maison dans un recipient ferme par un couvercle (pas de recipient avec
robinet)
80% des menages protegent la nourriture
33% des adultes interroges lavent les mains au savon au retour des toilettes
Pas d'enclos pour les animaux dans 91,5% des menages
1.3 Evaluation de l'impact du projet
Le renforcement des capacites
L'impact est important:
*      Les communautes sont mieux organisees pour resoudre les problemes lies a l'AEPA;
*      Les artisans-macons construisent des latrines familiales a la commande et augmentent leur revenu;
*      Le travail d'intermediation sociale des ONG appuie la prise en charge de I'AEPA par les communautes;
*      Plusieurs entreprises et bureaux d'etudes travaillent mieux et augmentent leur activite economique;
*      Les services techniques maitrisent mieux le developpement communautaire et ont appris - sur le tas - a
"faire faire".
Le taux de desserte en eau et en assainissement,
Dans les deux departements, 195 000 habitants de plus sont desservis en eau potable en quantite suffisante et
disposent de plus de moyens hygieniques de traitement des excreta.
La sante par l'hygiene,
Les conditions favorables commencent par 8tre creees (eau potable et pratiques d'hygiene) pour que les populations
- 38 -



ameliorent leur sante.
Le bien-etre des populations,
La corvee d'eau est devenue plus facile pour les femmes et les filles dans 30 000 menages ; la lessive et la vaisselle
sont rendues plus faciles et l'hygiene du corps est amelioree. L'hygiene dans les villages est amelioree.
La promotion du developpement,
L'experience d'organisation et de mobilisation acquise est utile pour d'autres activites de developpement ; la
demarche des familles et des macons pour construire des latrines peut susciter d'autres actions locales. Les ONG
sont mieux organisees et peuvent appliquer la demarche dans d'autres secteurs, au niveau de la communaute et de
la sous-prefecture (future commune).
II- EVALUATION DE LA PERFORMANCE DE LA DH ET DE LA DHAB
DANS L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
Dans l'ensemble, la performance de la DH-DHAB/SRH-SHAB peut etre consideree comme etant tres bonne.
2.1 - Realisation globale du projet
La performance globale est extremement positive, notamment en ce qui conceme la comprehension des principes
de la strategie et la mise en place du personnel requis, la consommation du budget et l'execution des marches.
Cependant une certaine faiblesse a ete constatee dans la maitrise du nouveau r6le de I'Etat, surtout au debut du
projet, faiblesse largement comblee au cours de l'execution diu projet par un effort constant, d'apprentissage sur le
tas par les cadres. A I'avenir, une formalisation de cette maitrise serait necessaire, surtout pour integrer la future
decentralisation territoriale.
2.2 - Organisation, mise en oeuvre et gestion du projet
2.2.1 - Organisation, planifcation etprogrammation du projet
En I'absence de cadre logique, la performance en planification est notable. L'organisation et la programmation
sont aussi tres positives: execution des plans annuels, maitrise des aspects techniques et appropriation reciproque
du developpement communautaire et les aspects techniques par les cadres ; les acquis du travail en equipe sont A
formaliser. Si les delais de la phase I sont lies A la nouveaute de I'approche et le flottement de tous les acteurs au
depart, des ameliorations ont ete necessaires pour reduire les delais dans la phase 2 pour ce qui conceme la reponse
A la demande (demotivant pour les communautes) ainsi que la preparation des appels d'offres et l'attribution des
marches (g8ne pour les entreprises et bureaux d'etudes).
2.2.2 - Gestionflnanciere et administrative
La performance est excellente, bien que des ameliorations soient possibles pour les procedures non-financieres.
2.2.3 - Renforcement des capacites
La performance est appreciable avec 1'equipement des services et des ONG et une activite importante de formation,
surtout pour les acteurs de terrain. Mais le projet ne prevoyait que peu d'appuis pour les entreprises et bureaux d'
etudes, sauf l'experience des chantiers ; le nouveau projet DH-DANIDA d'appui au secteur devrait repondre aux
attentes, notamment pour appuyer les bureaux d'etudes qui ont des faiblesses evidentes (contr6le de chantiers et
implantation des ouvrages). Par ailleurs, la performance des services techniques est A ameliorer avec des recyclages
de haut niveau, etc. en developpement communautaire, appui  l' interm6diation et formalisation des nouveaux
r6les.
2.2.4 - Circulation de l'information
La performance en matiere d'elaboration des rapports annuels est assez bonne. Toutefois, un accent particulier doit
8tre mis A l'avenir sur la diffusion des documents de projet (dont le manuel de procedures et des indicateurs de
suivi et les rapports annuels succincts) aupres des acteurs principaux. De meme, l'information systematique sur le
- 39 -



projet en forme de marketing et plaidoyer est A mettre en place, au Benin et dans la region.
2.2.5 - Prise d'initiatives
Les initiatives prises pour le volet eau sont considerbs aujourd'hui comme etant integrees au projet, signe de leur
appropriation. II s'agit notamment de: l'application de l'approche PADEAR A des travaux realises avec d'autres
financements, de la mise en place des services charges de la Planification, Suivi et Evaluation et du Service
Developpement Communautaire au sein du Departement de la Promotion et du Suivi de l'Approvisionnement en
Eau Potable (DPSAEP, ex DDCEP), du suivi de la qualite d'eau dans des forages dans le nord du Zou, de la mise
en place du projet d'appui au secteur avec l'appui du DANIDA, etc. La DHAB a aussi pris des initiatives
importantes integrees au projet A savoir: l'elaboration d'un manuel d'execution pour le volet assainissement, la
liste d'indicateurs specifiques mesurables, la formation des artisans-macons en marketing et attribution de la
construction des latrines communautaires aux macons formes, la collaboration avec le Ministere de l'Education
Nationale pour introduire des questions d'hygiene et d'assainissement a l'ecole.
2.2.6 - Suivi des resultats et de l'impact du projet
Le suivi est regulier (reunions et rapports trimestriels) mais il manque des indicateurs et un tableau qui fera la
synthese de 1'evolution. C'est surtout quatre initiatives sont prometteuses pour un suivi plus performant: la
decision de suivre l'evolution de la concentration des nitrates et nitrites dans des forages du nord du Zou, la mise
en place d'indicateurs par la DHAB, la mise en place d'un service charge du suivi , la creation de fiches de suivi
du point d'eau utilisees par les ONG, dont l'exploitation systematique permettra le ciblage des appuis aux
communautes.
2.2.3 - Relations avec d'autres acteurs
2.23.1 - Relations avec les acteurs nationaux
La performance est tres bonne au niveau des relations entre services (DH et DHAB ; SRH et SHAB) et avec d'
autres acteurs (ONG, entreprises, bureaux d'etudes, communautes), ce qui n'empeche pas des divergences et meme
des desaccords; des discussions franches sont facilitees par la qualite des relations.
2.2.3.2 - Relations avec les agences de cooperation au developpement
La performance avec les agences concemres par le projet (IDA, DANIDA) est excellente. Avec les autres agences,
il faudrait faire mieux connaitre les resultats positifs de l'approche PADEAR et susciter un financement
complementaire.
III - EVALUATION DE LA PERFORMANCE DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE ET
DES AGENCES DE COOPERATION AU DEVELOPPEMENT DANS
L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
3.1 - Resultats de l'evaluation de la performance des structures d'assistance technique
Le projet a beneficie de l'appui de l'Assistance Technique (AT) rattachee A la Cellule de coordination (CCPS) au
debut du projet, de celles du GREA pendant toute la duree du programme, de quelques interventions d'un
consultant pour l'assainissement, et de celles du bureau d'etudes COWI plus tardivement . Au debut du projet, I'AT
et le GREA ont du affronter les problemes lies A la mise en ceuvre d'un projet innovateur, qui devait bousculer les
habitudes professionnelles et inventer une nouvelle approche a une periode ou il n'y avait pas de certitudes et les
principaux acteurs ont duL chercher ensemble les solutions pour rendre le projet operationnel.
Dans 1'ensemble, la performance des structures d'assistance est bonne et excellente dans quelques cas, notamment
en ce qui conceme la disponibilite du personnel, la frequence de l'assistance et la disponibilite des rapports de
mission. Avec le temps, d'autres domaines ont et ameliores, notamment la qualification et l'experience du
personnel de I'assistance technique en approche participative, la conformite de I'assistance avec les attentes, la
qualite des conseils pour le choix des consultants, le degre d'adaptabilite des propositions faites et les lecons
apprises par la DH-DHAB aupres de l'assistance technique.
- 40 -



3.2 - Resultats de l'evaluation de la performance des agences de cooperation au developpement
La performance des agences de cooperation est tres bonne dans l'ensemble, en particulier en ce qui conceme la
facilitation du processus de negociation, la mise en place du projet grace au Fonds de Preparation du Projet (PPF)
et les bonnes modalites de suivi des accords de cooperation. Cependant, un effort doit etre fait pour rendre plus
disponibles les documents de base en francais (accord de financement, evaluation ex ante, manuel d'execution) et
accorder plus d'autonomie a la DH pour la gestion des fonds.
IV - APPRECIATION DE LA FORMULATION DU PROJET
Le document de projet est reste au stade provisoire (Draft 5, dec. 1993), malgre la recommandation de le finaliser
dans 1'evaluation DANIDA (1996); mais les textes tires de ce document ont servi i des exposes lors des seminaires
et ont permis de faire connaitre son contenu. L'appreciation de la formulation du projet se fait par rapport a trois
points de repere a savoir: la formulation en tant que projet, le contenu et la methodologie d'elaboration.
4.1 - La formulation en tant que projet
Le document n'est pas structure de maniere conventionnelle: approche liberatrice pour l'innovation, elle rend la
presentation difficile a suivre. Toutefois, la plupart des informations auraient pu etre presentees dans une etude qui
accompagnerait le document de projet, plus court, mieux structuree et suivant plus systematiquement la
presentation conventionnelle de projet (contexte, justification, buts et objectifs, resultats attendus, strategies,
activit6s, couits, cadre logique).
4.2 - Les contenus
*      Un travail de conception tres important et innovateur de strategies et processus a ete realise.
-       ,L'orientation, les strategies et les activites proposees traduisent bien les pre-occupations exprimees a New
Delhi (1991) et les idees innovatrices de l'epoque qui etaient de mettre l'accent sur la perennisation a travers le
travail participatif avec les communautes
*       .Les innovations etaient extremement important en 1993, compte tenu du fait qu'une bonne partie des
travaux etait realisee en regie et que peu de temps etait consacre aux actions aupres des communautes.
*      Toutefois, la majeure partie du texte conceme l'organisation pour l'approvisionnement en eau potable et
exclut presque totalement les considerations d'assainissement et d'education sanitaire.
4.3 - La methodologie d'alaboration.
*      Depuis la conception de la nouvelle strategie d'approvisionnement en eau potable, il y a eu une
collaboration positive entre la DH-DHAB et le GREA. Le projet etait elabore par ce demier en consultation avec
les services nationaux et une partie des activites de la periode du PPF realisee par ces memes services.
V - LES ACQUIS ET LES LECONS
Projet innovateur visant la mise en ceuvre de la politique sectorielle a grande echelle, la demarche suivie pour
realiser les travaux et les resultats obtenus permettent de constater des acquis importants et de tirer des lc4ons,
presentees en 10 points.
Le taux de desserte des points d'eau et des latrines a etb augmente, grace aux realisations du projet, ce qui
justifie la necessite de maintenir un niveau eleve d'investissement et de renforcer la perennisation.
Les actions d'assainissement, d'education pour la sante et d'amelioration de l'acces a l'eau potable
doivent se faire de maniere integree, faute de quoi, il y aura peu d'impact sur la sante.
La reponse a la demande est une approche qui fonctionne, mais qui comporte des insuffisances et risque
- 41 -



meme d'accentuer des inegalites si elle n'est pas ajustee aux realites economiques des zones d'intervention.
Malgre la complexite de la tache, les interventions aupres des communautes ont donne des resultats
positifs et demontrent qu'un travail de longue haleine s'impose pour perenniser les acquis.
Le projet a montre que la decentralisation/deconcentration du processus de decision aux structures
departementales de l'Etat et aux cormmunautes est effectivement possible, meme si quelques difficultes persistent
pour la deconcentration financiere.
Le desengagement de l'Etat et la promotion du secteur prive donnent des resultats positifs ; toutefois, les
aspects pratiques de la promotion des structures du secteur prive et le renforcement des capacites des agents et des
structures de l'Etat meritent d'etre poursuivis et intensifies.
La construction de latrines familiales est possible sans subventions, mais doit s'accompagner des actions
visant l'equite dans les communautes.
Les eleves et les macons disseminent des messages sur l'hygiene au sein des communautes et peuvent
devenir des vulgarisateurs efficaces dans ce domaine .
Les actions en faveur de I'assainissement et de l'eau potable ont eu un impact certain sur les communautes
et peuvent devenir une "porte d'entree" au developpement a la base.
Les politiques nationales d'assainissement et d'approvisionnement en eau potable en milieu rural ont
permis des avanc6es importantes mais doivent etre reecrites pour tenir compte de l'experience acquise et les enjeux
actuels (decentralisation territoriale, reduction de la pauvrete, mobilisation des ressources financieres, aspects
genre, perennisation).
- 42 -



