Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12860-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
MAY 11, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc ' (CFAF)
US$1 = 590 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (m)
1 liter (1) = 0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (rr') = 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter per capita per day (lcd) = 0.26 US gallons per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
(English/French)
CFD           French Aid Agency/Caisse francaise de d6veloppement
DANIDA        Danish International Development Assistance
DH            Directorate of Water Works/Direction de l'hydraulique
DHA           Directorate of Hygiene and Sanitation/Direction de l'hygiene et de l'assainissement
IAPSO         Inter-agency Procurement Service Office of the UNDP
ICB           international competitive bidding/appel d'offres international
IDWSSD        International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade
LCB           local competitive bidding/appel d'offres local
MEMH          Ministry of Energy, Mines and Water/Ministere de l'energie, des mines et de
I'hydraulique
MS            Ministry of Health/Ministere de la sante
NGO           non-governmental organization/organisation non gouvemementale
RWS           Rural Water Supply
RWSG-WA       West Africa Regional Group of the UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program
SBEE          Benin Power and Water Utility/Societe beninoise d'electricite et d'eau
SOE           statement of expenditure/releve de depenses
SRH           Water Works Regional Office/Service regional de I'hydraulique
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund/Fonds des Nations Unies pour l'enfance
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VIP           ventilated improved pit latrine
VLOM          village level operation and maintenance
WSC           Water and Sanitation Committee/Comite villageois pour l'eau et l'assainissement
The CFA Franc exchange rate is rixed at a rate of 100: 1 with the French Franc. The latter is a
floating currency.



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION    ..........................................    1
Population   .............................................   1
Macroeconomic Situation   ....................................   1
II. THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR  ....                                                 ......... 2
Water Resources . ..............                   .        ............................   2
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Services .........................   2
Sector Organization  ........................................   3
Sector Issues  ............................................   5
Sector Strategy ...........................................   7
Prior IDA  Involvement and Lessons Learned  ........................   9
III.  THE PROJECT   ...........................................    10
Generation and Rationale   ...................................   10
Objectives .............................................   10
Description  ............................................    11
Costs .................................................    14
Financing  .............................................    15
Procurement  ...........................................    15
Disbursements  ..........................................    18
Accounting and Audits  .....................................    20
IV. IMPLEMENTATION  AND  MONITORING   .........................   20
Organization and Management  ................................   20
Project Cycle at Village Level  ................................   21
Organization of Operation and Maintenance  ........................   21
Phasing and Implementation Schedule ............................   21
Reporting and Monitoring  ...................................   22
Supervision and Evaluation  ..................................   22
This report is based on the findings of the Bank appraisal mission which visited Benin in November
1993. The appraisal mission comprised Mmes./Messrs. Richard Verspyck (Principal Water and
Sanitation Specialist and Mission Leader), Yao Badjo (Sanitary Engineer), Letitia Obeng (Sr. Water
and Sanitation Specialist), Jenifer Cornet-Vessa (Community Development Specialist), Alain Mathys
(Chief, RWSG-WA) and Yves Degiacomi (RWS Engineer). Mr. Alain Locussol (EA31N) is the Peer
Reviewer. Messrs. Olivier Lafourcade and Alberto Harth are the Department Director and the
managing Division Chief, respectively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their offcial
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.  JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS   ...........                        ......................   23
Benefits and Beneficiaries  .        ..................................   23
Environmental Impact  .         ....................................   24
Sustainability ...........................................  24
Risks ............................................ 25
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ........................  25
Agreements ............................................  25
Recommendation ......................................... 27
TABLES
Table 3.1: Type and Number of Water Supply Facilities  .....                  ............   11
Table 3.2: Summary of Project Costs  ..........                  ...................   14
Table 3.3: Project Financing Plan   ............                ...................   15
Table 3.4: Amounts and Methods of Procurement  ......                     ...............   17
Table 3.5: Disbursement of IDA Credit ...........................  19
ANNEXES
1-1. Sector Policy Letter
2-1. Detailed Project Costs
2-2. Disbursement Schedule
2-3. Non-governmental Organizations
3-1. Implementation Program
3-2. Implementation Schedule
3-3. Table of Contents: Implementation Manual
3-4. Sanitation Component
3-5. Agreement MEMH/MS
3-6. Training Program
3-7. Supervision Plan
4-1. Monitoring Indicators
5-1. Executive Summary of the Environmental Study



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Benin
Beneficiary:    N/A
Implementing
Agency:         Directorate of Water (DH)
Credit Amount:  SDR 7.0 million (US$9.8 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard with 40 years maturity, including 10 years of grace
Project Objectives
and Description: The main purpose of the project is the full-scale demonstration of the new sector
strategy whose objectives are: (a) to maximize the impact and use of safe water
supply and sanitation facilities in rural areas; and (b) to ensure that the future
development of the sector will actually respond to the demand of rural
population. This requires to create an enabling environment for local contractors
and consultants, for commercializing village-level operated and maintained
(VLOM) pumps and spare parts through private networks and for promoting
affordable solutions for on-site sanitation.  The project comprises four
components: (a) water supply for rural communities in two regions; (b)
provision of VLOM pumps to cover the needs of all RWS projects in Benin;
(c) sanitation and hygiene education for rural communities in two regions; and
(d) capacity building. The project would cover the Atlantique and Zou regions.
Project Benefits
and Risks:      By targeting rural communities and particularly small communities which could
not have access to safe water and improved sanitation, the project would benefit
the poorest strata of population. Time savings--accruing to women and girls--and
improved health should translate into increased productivity of adults and
increased informal sector activities and should also generate greater opportunities
for education and training. The integration of water supply, sanitation and
hygiene education would maximize the health benefits and ensure a long-term
impact. Operation and maintenance of the water systems would be independent
of government's subsidies or technical inputs and the systematic recourse to the
local private sector and local organizations in executing works and providing
goods and services would further enhance the sustainability of the project. Main
risks pertain to: (a) the capacity of DH to adjust to its new responsibilities and
its commitment to not interfere with communities' decisions; and (b) the
effectiveness of NGOs and other private actors in dealing with communities and
cooperating with governmental entities. To mitigate these risks, strengthening
of DH and SRHs through selection and training of key personnel take place
during the PPF period. NGOs and private contractors would also be prequalified
and trained well in advance of the start-up of field operations. The training
program will be extended throughout the implementation phase to allow for self-
evaluation and exchanges of experience and lessons between the various actors.






Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan (in US$ million):
A. Summary of Project Costs
% of
Component             Foreign      Local        Total        Base
Cost
A. RURAL WATER SUPPLY           5.72         0.90         6.62         53
B. VLOM PUMPS                    1.28        0.00         1.28         10
C. SANITATION                    1.17        0.38         1.55         13
D. CAPACITY BUILDING             1.51        0.35         1.86         15
E. PPF REFINANCING               1.17        0.00         1.17          9
TOTAL BASE COST                 10.85        1.63         12.48       100
Physical Contingencies          0.97         0.16         1.13          9
Price Contingencies             0.73         0.66         1.39         11
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES             1.70         0.82         2.52         20
TOTAL PROJECT COST              12.55        2.45         15.00        120
B. Financing Plan
Source of Funds           Foreign         Local           Total
Government of Benin                 0.16           0.29            0.45
Communities                         0.59           0.18            0.77
Government of Denmark                3.36          0.62             3.98
IDA                                  8.44           1.36           9.80
TOTAL SOURCES                       12.55          2.45            15.00
Estimated Disbursements of. IDA Credit by Semester (in US$ million):
FY95        FY96          FY97
Si    S2    Si    S2    SI    S2
Semestrial                  2.63   1.20  2.12   1.34  2.34  0.17
Cumulative                  2.63   3.83  5.95  7.29  9.63  9.80
Economic rate of return:        N/A
Poverty Category:               Program of Targeted Interventions






REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
Population
1.01 The population of Benin was estimated at five million in 1992, of which 60 percent
live in rural areas (population groups of more than 5,000 are designated as urban.), scattered
in 3,500 administrative villages, 7,000 communities of between 50 and 300 people and
15,000 smaller human settlements. The population is increasing at an average annual rate
of about 3.2 percent. Its geographical distribution is very uneven. Population density varies
from 340 inhabitants/km2 in the dkpartement of Atlantique to about 14 inhabitants/km2 in
Borgou. As a result, 63 percent of the population is concentrated on 12 percent of the land
area.
Macroeconomic Situation
1.02 The annual per capita income was slightly above US$400 in 1992. Benin's principal
resource is its arable land, which makes it potentially self-sufficient in food in overall terms
while enabling it to produce cash crops such as cotton and palm oil as a source of foreign
exchange. The agricultural sector accounts for about 36 percent of GDP, more than 70
percent of exports and 75 percent of employment. The annual growth rate of agricultural
production in the 1990-1992 period was 4.2 percent.  This performance, although
remarkable, was largely achieved through more extensive utilization of available land. The
industrial sector accounts for about 13 percent of GDP, essentially in the form of
manufacturing, cement production and limited offshore oil resources. The geographical
configuration of Benin, together with the deep-water port of Cotonou and its relatively good
road and rail network, allows it to provide transit services for landlocked countries to its
North. The services sector (50 percent of GDP) basically consists of informal but vigorous
trading activities, growing at an annual rate of 3.5 percent.
1.03 Between 1983 and 1987 Benin's economy grew only slowly, partly as a result of a
decline in trade and a collapse of the regional transit traffic, but particularly as a
consequence of the inefficiency and poor management of the productive sectors dominated
by public enterprises. In 1989 the Government introduced a program of economic reforms
prepared with the assistance of the Bank and the IMF. This program reflected a change in
Benin's economic policies, the reduction of the State role in the economy and promotion of
private sector activities, a balanced management of public funds, and an improved balance
of payments situation.
1.04 Despite the progress registered since 1989, the Beninese economy remains fragile and
its overall competitiveness is weak.  In January 1994, the Government decided, in
consultation with its partners in the West African Monetary Union, to reinforce its economic



- 2 -
strategy by modifying the external parity of the CFA franc. This adjustment, accompanied
by the reinforcement of a number of structural policies, is expected to provide a strong boost
to the export and import substitution sectors. Other important objectives of the reinforced
adjustment strategy are the following: (a) the further reduction of domestic and external
imbalances; (b) the reduction of poverty and protection of vulnerable groups; and (c) the
rehabilitation of social and physical infrastructure and the promotion of human resources
development.
II. THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Water Resources
2.01 Average rainfall in Benin varies from 1,300 mm/year in the coastal region to
900 mm/year in the north.  Availability of groundwater varies between the coastal
sedimentary basin and the precambrian basement which covers 80 percent of the country.
Annual abstraction of groundwater for supplying urban and rural population centers
represents on average less than 3 percent of the annual recharge of the aquifers (1,850
million in3).
2.02 The water resources of the coastal sedimentary basin, ranging in width from 50 km
to 100 Iam, are abundant and generally exceed the needs of the villages, but tapping them can
sometimes be difficult because the groundwater is deep below the surface. The water
obtained is often of poor chemical quality (excessive iron, manganese, fluorine and chlorides)
and commonly very aggressive. Water is generally available in the fracture zones of the
precambrian basement. When attempts are made to position wells as close as possible to
villages, which are commonly located on high ground, the risk of failing to strike water is
high (20-40%) and usable flows are generally low.
2.03 The hydrographic system comprises two main basins: the Atlantic basin in the south
with Ou6m6, Mono and Couffo, and the Niger basin in the north. Surface water is not used
for village water supply but, especially in the rainy season, can serve as a back-up source
that is more readily accessible and therefore often preferred by the communities over the
modem facilities put in for them. Collection of rainwater from roofs and its storage in large
household cisterns is a common practice in the south and center of the country. In the area
formed by the barren wedge of the continental terminal on the crystalline bedrock (north of
Mono and south of Zou) or in the coastal areas where the groundwater is of poor chemical
quality and located at great depths, this is often the only workable method of supply.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Services
2.04 Large-scale village well construction programs have been launched since the
beginning of the 1980s with external financial assistance amounting to US$48 million. 3,180
boreholes and 980 modem wells and 23 small piped systems had been constructed at the end
of 1992 to serve 1,700 villages with an estimated total population of 1.8 million. The
country-wide coverage rate is 44%, increasing markedly from the South (between 18% and



-3-
25 % in Mono, Atlantique and Oueme departments) to the North (77 % in Atacora and 82%
in Borgou). These percentages do not take into account the village communities' willingness
to use and maintain the facilities made available to them. About 25 % of the 3,600
handpumps installed on point-source systems are not functioning. Surveys show that rural
communities use modem facilities to supply drinking water during the dry season and
consume about four liters per capita per day (lcd). The latter figure compares to the one
observed in secondary urban centers served by piped systems and is well below the daily
consumption of about 35 lcd of the large urban centers.
2.05 Only 12 % of the rural population have some sort of on-site sanitation system--to be
compared with more than 50 % in urban areas. The most common system is the pit latrine.
A limited number of ventilated improved pit (VIP) latrines were constructed during the
International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (IDWSSD) to serve schools,
health centers and markets. They have often been built with concrete blocks rather than
locally available building materials and are not affordable to rural households, except where
they have been heavily subsidized by projects.
Sector Organization
2.06 Directorate of Water Works. The Directorate of Water Works (Direction de
l'Hydraulique-DH) of the Ministry of Energy, Mines and Water (MEMH) is responsible for
the gathering and updating of hydrological and hydrogeological data, formulation and
monitoring of regulations applicable to water use, and coordination and execution of the
village water supply programs. DH employs 123 permanent staff, including 35 in six
regional offices (Service regional de l'Hydraulique-SRH). DH also employs temporary staff
whose numbers vary depending on the amount of force account work in progress (69 at
present). Senior staff comprise 23 engineers and technicians, one administrative manager,
one sociologist and one recently recruited community development specialist.
2.07  DH does some drilling and well construction work on force account with its own
well-digging equipment and two drilling rigs provided by Japanese assistance. The drilling
teams of UNICEF are also staffed with DH employees. In 1990, DH drilled 71 boreholes
and sank 12 wells with its own personnel.
2.08 The Societe Beninoise d'Electriciti et d'Eau (SBEE). SBEE, a national enterprise
also under the supervision of MEMH, is responsible for the generation and distribution of
electricity country-wide and for urban water supply. In 1992, SBEE operated 46 piped
systems regrouping about 42,000 service connections and sold 11 million m3. SBEE, which
is financially autonomous, has invested over US$93 million in developing this sector, almost
all of it derived from external financing, and is responsible for the service of the debt
incurred. Revenues from water service are insufficient to cover the full amount of operating
costs and debt service by about CFAF 1.5 billion. The shortfall is covered from electricity
revenues. Officially, SBEE does not operate in rural areas, but it has for some time put in
systems in a number of small centers (classified as urban) where service conditions are
similar to those found in the villages.



-4 -
2.09 Other Ministries or Technical Services. The key ministry involved in on-site
sanitation development and hygiene education in Benin is the Ministry of Health (Ministare
de la Sant&-MS). The ministry's Directorate of Hygiene and Sanitation (Direction de
l'Hygiene et de l'Assainissement--DHA) which works in this area is staffed by sanitary
engineers, higher level technicians and hygiene agents (public health inspectors). Its
professionals are based either in Cotonou or in regional services (SHA) under the ministry's
regional directorates of Health (DDS). DHA is currently involved in planning, regulatory,
policy making and implementation activities and depends on project funds for the majority
of the implementation activities. Several donors (UNICEF, USAID, UNDP, GTZ, KfW,
WHO) have been involved in the sanitation sub-sector in recent years. A UNICEF/USAID
project was implemented in Zou as part of the program for the eradication of Guinea Worm.
Valuable experience was developed in construction of facilities for households, schools and
health centers, training, and hygiene education. Another ministry with an interest in the
sanitation sub-sector is the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Planning. Its key
department for sanitation activities is the Urban Planning and Sanitation Directorate which
is currently involved in drainage, urban planning and general sanitation activities in urban
areas.
2.10 Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs). Prior to 1991, there were practically no
local NGOs operating in the country, apart from religious organizations who were active in
urban and rural areas. International NGOs have taken a limited part in village water supply
and sanitation projects in Benin, compared with other countries of the region; their primary
focus is construction of modern wells and small earth dams. German, French, Dutch and
Cathwell volunteers put in some 650 wells. They undertake projects if requested by the
village communities and require a significant contribution in labor and funds (for example,
CFAF 150,000 per well in Atlantique department).
2.11  The democratic revival of 1989 resulted in the establishment of hundreds of local
NGOs and, with the encouragement now being given to private initiatives, the numbers
continue to grow.  Typical activities of NGOs include support to natural resources
management, provision of basic health care, training and education and support to income-
generating activities. A number of NGOs primarily focus on rural women and provide
training in nutrition and health education by using participatory techniques developed by the
Research Group for Support to Rural Self-Promotion and the West Africa Center of Social
and Economic Studies of Burkina Faso. A brief presentation of Beninese NGOs is given in
Annex 2-3.
2.12 Private Sector. The local private sector is mostly active in supplying spare parts and
in maintaining handpumps. Three trading companies import pumps and parts from France
(Vergnet and UPM) and India (India Mark II). Pumps are exclusively sold to RWS projects.
Parts are distributed through separate networks regrouping 37 retailers. The annual turnover
of the retailers varies between US$500 and US$6,000, which yield limited incentives to stay
in business.
2.13 Around 180 pump mechanics, selected among village repairmen of bikes or mills,
have been trained in the course of different projects; the DH assigns them a certain number



-5-
of villages in which they can work, but the communities have the option to call on the
mechanic of their choice. The communities buy the spare parts from the retailers and pay
the mechanics for their services. Pump maintenance generates revenues of US$75 per
mechanic, i.e. 10% of their annual income. Small piped systems are also maintained by
private contractors and an enterprise supported by French aid (Caisse francaise de
developpement - CFD) has recently been formed that specializes in installation and
maintenance of solar pumps.
Sector Issues
2.14 By the end of the IDWSS Decade, DH, assisted by the West Africa Regional Group
of the UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program (RWSG-WA, Abidjan), reviewed
the outcome of past RWS projects in Benin. This review identified the basic shortcomings
which hampered the development of the sector and limit the use and impact of water and
sanitation facilities in rural areas. These may be summarized as follows: (a) lack of
community participation generating the absence of ownership; (b) the absence of local
capacity; (c) the ineffectiveness of the sanitation and hygiene education programs; and (d)
the total dependence of the sector on external resources and the absence of sustainability.
2.15  Community Parikipadon and Ownership. The village communities have always
been viewed as beneficiaries of projects planned by a central agency, and very rarely as
initiators; this is a direct consequence of the present organization of planning in the sector.
Project identification is most often based on conditions set by the financing agencies. Some
of these agencies are more concerned with health (Guinea worm eradication) or economic
(livestock water needs, development of small agricultural lots) objectives, others want to
limit themselves to a particular region, type of work (drilling or regular well sinking) or to
a certain form of project execution (contracting out or force account). In the absence of a
document setting Government policies and guidelines for the development of the sector, the
donors proposed projects ensuring swift execution and focusing essentially on water point
construction.
2.16 The initiative for construction of a water point has almost always come from DH or
the project unit; there has been no formal procedure through which a community can request
construction of a water point if it is not located within the geographic area of the project.
The initiative for improvement of the sanitation environment (latrine construction, for
example) has always come from the project unit. The promotion methods have tended not
to offer much choice: as a rule, one single type of water point or pump will be proposed
since the community development teams seldom have the training needed to propose
alternative technical solutions. Some communities have been prepared, as demonstrated in
CFD-financed projects, to go for more sophisticated equipment (motor or solar pumps),
which can provide better levels of service or generate economic activities.
2.17 Since the initial financial contribution of the village is often symbolic, it is quite hard
to determine its real interest in improving its water supply. The work to be done is often
being explained to the community as construction progresses. This subordinated role of the
communities may persist after the construction period: village committees often cannot draw



-6-
on the account they have opened at the savings bank to finance maintenance costs without
prior SRH approval. The role of women, generally seen as crucial in the management of
community water supply and sanitation, is limited to upkeep of the surroundings of the water
points and collecting of the cash contribution when applicable. Hardly any women are
chairpersons of a water point committee or treasurers or pump mechanics.
2.18 Local Capacity Building. Few projects seem to have had as their main purpose the
development of a sector less dependent on external financial and technical assistance as a
result of establishment of local execution capacity or support for community development
actions. Project execution has been based on the traditional "public works" approach and
generally includes selection of international consultants from a limited list and the awarding
of large drilling and pump supply contracts on the basis of invitations to tender that are more
or less open depending on restrictions as to the origin of equipment.
2.19 No local consulting engineer has contributed directly to the preparation, supervision
or monitoring of projects. Local expertise in control of drilling works, developed over
recent years, had been, however, available. Because of the near-closure of the market, the
professionals concerned have moved into government but tend to reappear in private practice
by being subcontracted by foreign consulting engineers and companies.
2.20 Borehole drilling is carried out by specialized enterprises prequalified on the basis of
their experience and financial criteria and selected after competitive bidding. The size of the
contract packages, generally several hundred boreholes to be executed in two or three annual
batches, actually precludes the few Beninese or regional enterprises to participate.
Exceptions are the UNICEF projects and the Japanese assistance project, which employ their
own rigs on force account. This also has not supported the emergence of local private
contractors.
2.21 Sanitation and Hygiene Education. Rural sanitation has received much less attention
than water supply; hardly any projects, except the one financed by USAID and executed by
UNICEF, have established a direct link between water supply, sanitation (especially excreta
disposal) and improved health. However, some projects funded by UNDP and German
assistance have been designed to promote latrines in rural and urban areas and have financed
construction of such facilities (essentially of the "ventilated improved pit" or VIP type). The
standard-type latrines are very costly (US$250-350 for a VIP latrine with a single pit and one
shelter, which is equivalent to the cost of a rainwater collection cistern), whereas latrines of
the "improved Mozambique" type developed in East Africa only need a bag of cement for
the slab and local materials for the shelter, ventilation line and top and cost no more than
US$30-50.
2.22 The health and hygiene education messages delivered during community development
sessions have been too ambitious in regard of the limited time spent by extension workers--
usually civil servants--with the communities. Community development activities have been
actually carried out in parallel with the execution of physical works and have to adapt to the
quick pace of execution of drilling works. Follow-up sessions have not taken place after the
commissioning of the facilities and most of the message is lost and rarely acted upon. Even



-7-
if the water points are conveniently located and easily usable, as is the case with the
standpipes and connections provided in the small centers served by SBEE, the villagers have
mainly used them in the dry season, which shows once again that they attach much more
importance to the quantitative rather than the qualitative side of water supply.
2.23  Sustainabiliy. DH has been virtually unable to function without exteral financial
assistance. For example, it will find it very difficult to pursue the gathering and processing
of hydrological and hydrogeological data, activities developed with French and UNDP
assistance, once these projects are completed. Personnel costs make up for 95% of budget
allocations. DH's operating costs--including travel expenses and salary supplements--are thus
covered by subsidies received from the majority of the RWS projects and by billing services
to contractors and consultants. The directorate's capacity to take initiatives and to respond
to urgent needs has been therefore quite limited. The SRHs have received no budget and
have very little capacity for maintaining permanent liaison with the village communities,
which ought to be their main role. These policies have reflected a widespread view that the
performance of the sector is only related to the number of water points constructed
regardless of their use or their operating condition.
Sector Strategy
2.24 Following the identification of the above sector issues, DH and SBEE asked
RWSG-WA to assist in the preparation of a rural water supply and sanitation strategy for the
1990s which would allow: (a) to maximize the impact and use of existing safe water supply
and sanitation facilities in rural areas; and (b) to ensure that the future development of the
sector will actually respond to the demand of rural populations.
2.25 A new strategy was produced and discussed in a national seminar held in Lokossa in
December 1991, which was attended by most of the donors active in the sector. The
"Lokossa declaration", issued at the end of this seminar and subsequently approved by the
Council of Ministers on March 18, 1992 calls for a bottom-up approach to the construction
and maintenance of water facilities and for a drastic change in the role played by the public
sector, as the latter should no longer directly provide rural water supply and sanitation
services, but rather should act as a promoter and a facilitator of services. The basic
principles underpinning the strategy are as follows:
(a)   decentralization of the decision-making process at all stages of the RWS
project cycle;
(b)   financial participation of the communities toward initial investment costs in
accordance with their willingness to pay for a given level of service;
(c)   reduction of construction and maintenance costs; and
(d)   systematic recourse to the private sector for constructing, maintaining and
operating rural facilities, with special emphasis on the promotion of local
capabilities and contractors.



-8 -
2.26 Village water supply, and to a lesser extent sanitation, will in the years ahead still
receive significant external financial assistance for funding capital costs; however, DH or the
RWS projects will no longer decide in advance which communities will receive water or
sanitation facilities. Communities wanting to improve their water supply systems and
sanitation facilities would have to make their own request for a construction grant to the
departmental unit of DH (SRH), agree to make a significant contribution to the initial
investment and pay all the operating costs.
2.27  Decentrlzation and Community Participation.  With an average of 700-1,000
settlements of more than 100 inhabitants per department (or 5,000 settlements per department
including those with a population of less than 100), a SRH cannot itself maintain permanent
direct relations with the communities. The regular contacts would be maintained through
prequalified local NGOs established on a permanent basis in each department. They would
elicit the priorities of the communities and help them formulate their water supply and
sanitation needs and make sensible choices by explaining appropriate technical features and
their financial consequences. The NGOs would also help the communities organize
themselves to meet the conditions required to obtain an investment subsidy. Finally, the
NGOs would help the communities organize the maintenance and management of water
supply and sanitation installations.
2.28 The essential role of the SRHs would be to promote water supplies and sanitation to
local communities and to program the projects of the communities that have met the
conditions for obtaining a construction grant subsidy in packages of works of the same type
(boreholes, wells, small networks). This system would ensure a regular flow of activities,
particularly of works contracts that, while smaller than the contracts currently executed,
would for that very reason enable local or sub-regional firms to participate.
2.29 Cost Recovery. The principle of community financing of maintenance costs has
already been introduced in Benin and is well accepted wherever villages benefit from reliable
equipment and easy access to mechanics and spare parts. Communities would also be
required to pay part of the capital costs of basic service. Higher levels of water and
sanitation service are encouraged, but the communities would be required to pay a substantial
part of the additional cost. Specific surveys, financed under the PPF, are being conducted
to assess the willingness to pay of the communities.
2.30 Cost Reduction. Drilling costs, which reflect the present organization of the market,
are high, as elsewhere in West Africa (about US$12,000 for a fifty-meter productive hole
in bedrock). Scaling down the size of contracts together with simplification of the technical
and administrative specifications should enable local or regional enterprises using lighter and
less costly equipment to participate in bidding, which ought to bring about some reduction
in costs without affecting the technical quality of the work. The percussion drilling
technique seems particularly well suited for making the very large number of concession
wells usable year round.
2.31 More than 25% of the pumps installed in Benin will need to be replaced; they are no
longer being manufactured and parts are not available. It costs as much to repair these



-9 -
pumps as to buy new ones, while their technology is deficient and villagers do not trust
them. To select the type or types of pumps to be recommended to the communities, DH
would run an open competition for supply of all pumps to be installed in Benin over the
coming three to five years. No restrictions would be placed on the origin of the equipment,
which would allow to take recent developments in technologies into account. The pumps
would be warranted for three years by the manufacturer (excluding wearing parts), but this
warranty would be calculated separately so that it would be possible to ascertain its precise
impact on the total cost of the contract. The orders would be placed in several batches
spread out over time.
2.32 The design of the small piped water supply installations will be based on realistic
consumption figures derived from an analysis of current water consumption in large villages.
Solar pumping equipment will be standardized; the capacity of the gravity tank will be
reduced to the strict minimum and small ground-level tanks of 1-2 m3 will be built by the
community near the standpipes.
2.33 Promotion of the local private sector. All construction works and provision of good
and services would be carried out by the private sector. DH would disengage from all
activities which may be executed by private contractors such as drilling on force account and
well-siting. The existence of a sustainable local network of contractors, consultants, artisans
and pump mechanics should reinforce the sustainability of the facilities. The emergence of
this local network would require unrestricted access of the local private sector to public
contracts, which in turn calls for: (a) quick procurement decisions; (b) timely payment of
contractors; (c) the assurance of a steady flow of potential business; and (d) training and
management support.
Prior IDA Involvement and Lessons Learned
2.34 IDA has provided two credits to the Government in the urban water sector, for a
Water Supply Engineering Project (Credit 1171-BEN) in 1982 and the Second Water Supply
Project (Credit 1721-BEN) in 1986. Both were directed towards the expansion of the water
supply systems of Cotonou and Porto-Novo with SBEE as executing agency. The first
project was satisfactorily carried out and the second was closed on December 31, 1993. The
works were completed on time and without cost overruns. While the latter project has
exceeded its objective in terms of coverage, due particularly to a successful social
connections program which doubled the number of customers, the actual consumption
observed is well below appraisal forecasts. SBEE also experienced difficulties in maintaining
its revenue billing and collection performance, while arrears on water and electricity bills
of the public sector have sharply increased.
2.35 IDA has no prior experience of a free-standing rural water supply project in Benin,
but the experience gained in preparing and executing RWS projects in West Africa,
particularly CMte d'Ivoire and Ghana has amply demonstrated the need for greater community
participation from the planning and design stage. The experience of RWS projects fmanced
by other donors in Benin has confirned that: (a) the participation of communities in
maintenance activities greatly increased the availability rate of handpumps, but did not bring



- 10-
by itself a sensible improvement of the use of water facilities; and (b) the expectation that
the health benefits of improved water supply could be easily perceived by the villagers and
would in turn reinforce the sustainability of the services has not materialized.
2.36 Outside of the water sector, the portfolio of IDA-supported projects in Benin has
faced for some time generic issues related to procurement and disbursement practices as well
as to the lack of counterpart funding and of adequately trained accounting staff in the civil
service. They could be addressed by incorporating in the design of the project specific
solutions tested in recent operations to: (a) facilitate access of small contractors to public
contracts and streamline disbursements from the Special Account (Urban Rehabilitation and
Management Project - Credit 2338-BEN and Credit 1721-BEN); and (b) establish
decentralized accounting systems (National Resource Management Project - Credit 2344-
BEN).
III. THE PROJECT
Generation and Rationale
3.01 Following the national seminar held in Lokossa in December 1991, the Government
of Benin requested IDA's assistance to implement the decentralized approach of the
development of rural water and sanitation services. IDA's participation would: (a) reinforce
the Government's commitment to policy reforms; (b) help eliminate bottlenecks created by
conflicting donors' interests, particularly in technological choices; (c) bring about a more
comprehensive perspective of the respective roles of the public and private sectors and of
local communities within the framework of Benin's structural adjustment process. The DH
prepared a draft sector policy letter, which was discussed and finalized during negotiations.
The sector policy letter has been approved by the Government and officially sent to IDA
before Board presentation.
3.02 Project preparation was done by Bank and RWSG-WA staff. RWSG-WA prepared
a draft project document which was discussed during pre-appraisal and presented to a
national workshop during appraisal. The project document was further developed into a
Project Implementation Manual by a small unit established in DH.
Objectives
3.03 The main purpose of the project is the full-scale demonstration of the new sector
strategy whose objectives are: (a) to maximize the impact and use of safe water supply and
sanitation facilities in rural areas; and (b) to ensure that the future development of the sector
will actually respond to the demand of rural population. The adoption of a decentralized
approach would help ensure that investments are demand-driven. This requires to create an
enabling environment for local contractors and consultants, for commercializing village-level
operated and maintained (VLOM) pumps and spare parts through private networks and for
promoting affordable solutions for on-site sanitation.



- 11 -
Description.
3.04 The project comprises four components: (a) water supply for rural communities in
two regions; (b) provision of VLOM pumps to cover the needs of all RWS projects in Benin;
(c) sanitation and hygiene education for rural communities in two regions; and (d) capacity
building. The project would cover the Atlantique and Zou regions which are located in the
South of Benin where traditional water sources are relatively abundant. RWS projects have
proved to be even less sustainable there than in other parts of the country (more than 50
percent of the pumps are in disrepair in Atlantique), particularly the Sahelian zones.
3.05 Rural Water Supply. Rural communities that place a high priority on water supply
would be given the opportunity to plan and design the improvement of their water systems.
They would be requested to prepare a village project document with the assistance of a local
NGO, including preliminary design of the facilities to be constructed and a management plan
describing maintenance and cost recovery arrangements. Communities would be offered to
choose between the following options (or a combination of these options): (a) rehabilitation
or improvement of existing wells, boreholes and replacement of handpumps; (b) six types
of water supply sources: cistern, spring catchment, well, borehole, standpost or small piped
system; and (c) three types of pumping equipment: handpumps, diesel-motorized pumps and
solar pumping.
3.06 About 200,000 people in 400 rural communities would be served by the rural water
facilities to be constructed. Table 3.1 gives a tentative breakdown of the type and number
of rural systems expected to be requested by the communities in the two regions covered by
the project. These figures are indicative, since they are based on the condition of the
existing facilities and the potential water resources in each department.
Table 3.1          Type and Number of Water Supply Facilities
Atlantique        Zou
Type of Rural System        Department      Department        Total
Cistern                                 10              10             20
Sring Catchment                          8              12             20
Well9                                   10              10             20
Well Rehabilitation                     25              25             50
Borehole                                100            260             360
Borehole Rehabilitation                 20              20             40
Standpost                                3              3               6
Small Piped System                       2              2               4
3.07  UNICEF, which has carried out several RWS projects and sanitation and health
projects in the Zou region in the last seven years, expressed interest in being associated with
the implementation of the strategy. UNICEF projects have been the only ones in Benin to
associate water, sanitation and health education. The continuation of the UNICEF program



- 12 -
during a two-year trial period, during which UNICEF would disengage from the force
account drilling activities, would be included in the project. UNICEF would assist in the
design and supervision of the execution of 200 boreholes in Zou (included in the above Table
3.1) and would be financed by IDA on the basis of services rendered. Boreholes would be
drilled by private contractors selected in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. The
remainder of UNICEF activities in Zou, i.e. the sanitation and health program would be
financed by UNICEF from its own resources. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that DH: (a) would discontinue its force account activities no later than January 1, 1995; and
(b) divest of its drilling equipment no later than January 1, 1996.
3.08 Provision of VLOM pumps. The Government has decided to select the types of
pumps to be recommended to communities on the basis of international competitive bidding,
which would eliminate restrictions on the origin of equipment. The selected types would be
used by all future RWS projects throughout Benin, in order to lay the ground for efficient
operation and maintenance in the four regions not directly affected by the project. The
project would thus include the provision and delivery to Cotonou of some 1,500 pumps to
cover the needs of rehabilitated and new water facilities over the next three years. Three
different lift ranges would be specified to suit the variable hydrogeological conditions.
Technical specifications would be precise as regards minimum yield performance, ease of
disassembly and maintenance, corrosion resistance and maximum annual part costs to be
borne by the communities.
3.09 Handpumps financed under the project will be delivered by the supplier to the
selected distributor in Cotonou who would stock them prior to final delivery to the
communities or to other RWS projects. The Project Implementation Manual will specify the
procedures under which the pumps would be handled to other projects, in order to ensure
particularly that possible claims be exclusively directed to the supplier and/or distributor.
The contract of the distributor/installer will specify the arrangements for controlling: (a) the
inventory of equipments, including spare parts; and (b) quality and performance at the final
delivery point and after installation.
3.10 Sanitation and Hygiene Education. The overall objectives of this component are to
contribute to improvements in the health of rural populations and to the quality of the rural
environment through better management and delivery of sanitation services.  Specific
objectives are to: (a) increase the demand for improved sanitation services through extensive
marketing and promotion campaigns; (b) train masons (and small enterprises) who can
construct and promote on-site sanitation systems for households, communities, schools and
health centers; (c) improve the environmental sanitation conditions and hygiene practices in
schools and health centers and; (d) improve the environmental sanitation and hygiene
practices of rural households and communities through integration of appropriate messages
and activities in the community mobilization process for the water supply program.
3.11 A detailed description of the sanitation component is given in Annex 3-4. The
component comprises four interlinked sub-components:



- 13 -
(a)   development and dissemination of marketing and promotion tools. This will
involve assistance of a marketing specialist in the identification of appropriate
multi-media and preparation of appropriate tools for "selling" sanitation.
Materials already existing for promotion of improved sanitation services will
also be assessed and incorporated into the marketing and promotion process;
(b)   development of appropriate training materials for private masons and training
them to construct and market a range of latrines;
(c)   systematic construction of latrines in schools and health centers (about 300)
which do not already have functioning ones. Linked to this construction
program will be the provision of water points (cisterns), and development,
dissemination and use of training materials on hygiene education and on the
proper management of these latrines; and
(d)   integration of messages (about improved management of sanitation facilities,
hygiene and maintaining a clean physical community environment) into the
mobilization and training activities for delivery of improved water supply
facilities to the target communities.
3.12  Capacity Building.  The implementation of the sector strategy would entail
considerable shift of responsibilities between the public sector and the private sector. The
capacity building component would therefore comprise training, technical assistance, studies,
monitoring and evaluation activities and project management.  The training program,
consisting of modular units targeted on the various public actors (DH, SRHs, regional
committees) and to the private sector organizations and firms (NGOs, local consultants,
contractors, masons, well-diggers, pump mechanics) is detailed in Annex 3-6. The training
program will be managed by a NGO and about 32 months of training would be provided by
regional or Beninese institutions familiar with participatory techniques or assistance to small
contractors (CEPEPE). Technical assistance would focus on the technical aspects of
implementation (36 staff-months of one expatriate advisor) and community development (36
staff-month of one Beninese consultant). The expatriate TA would help: (a) prepare the
technical specifications of the bidding documents, including design criteria; (b) prepare
guidelines for the selection of technologies and technical solutions; (c) set up a monitoring
system for contract management; (d) monitor the performance of local contractors; and (e)
provide assistance to local consultants and NGOs. The Beninese advisor would help: (a)
design the information campaign; (b) identify private actors and NGOs and set up
cooperation arrangements between them and the public actors; and (c) monitor the
implementation of the mobilization process by NGOs and organize periodic evaluations.
Overall supervision and evaluation would be provided by RWSG-WA and through
operational audits carried out by short-term consultants. Project management would be the
responsibility of DH and the SRHs. IDA would finance equipment and incremental
operating costs (except salaries and benefits) on a declining basis.



- 14 -
Costs
3.13 The estimated total cost of the project is US$15.0 million (excluding taxes), of which
U$12.6 million are foreign exchange costs (84 percent). A breakdown by component is
given in Table 3.2 and detailed cost estimates are provided in Annex 2-1.
Table 3.2                    Summary of Project Costs
US$ million                    % of
Component             Foreign      Local        Total        Base Cost
A. RURAL WATER SUPPLY
Civil Works                      4.11        0.62          4.73
Equipment and Materials          0.46        0.06          0.52
Consultant and NGO Services
(incl. UNICEF)                   1.15        0.22          1.37
Sub-total   5.72       0.90          6.62         53
B. VLOM PUmPS         Sub-total   1.28       0.00          1.28         10
C. SANITATION
Civil Works                      0.69        0.21          0.90
Equipment and Materials          0.07        0.00          0.07
Consulting Services              0.26        0.07          0.33
Operating Costs                  0.15        0.10          0.25
Sub-total   1.17       0-            1.55         13
D. CAPACITY BUILDING
Training                         0.35        0.07          0.42
TA and Consulting Services       0.52        0.06          0.58
Monitoring and Evaluation        0.18        0.02          0.20
Equipment                        0.15        0.00          0.15
Operating Costs                  0.31        0.20          0.51
Sub-total   1.51       0.35                       15
E. PPF REFINANCING               1.17        0.00          1.17         9
TOTAL BASE COST                 10.85        1.63         12.48        100
CONTINGENCIES
Physical Contingencies           0.97        0.16          1.13         9
Price Contingencies              0.73        0.66          1.39         11
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES              1.70        0.82          2.52         20
TOTAL PROJECT COST              12.55        2.45         15.00        120
3.14  Base costs are expressed in January 1994 prices.  They are based on contracts
awarded in Benin for similar major works and on contracts recently awarded in West Africa
for supplying pumps and updated to take into account the impact of the devaluation of the
CFA Franc. The number of water points to be constructed will rather depend on the actual
choices of technologies by the communities. Physical contingencies have been set at 10
percent. Price contingencies for costs in foreign exchange reflect Bank projections for world
inflation at an average rate of 3.1 percent per year. Inflation rates in Benin for costs in local



- 15 -
currency are derived from PFP projections of the GDP deflator, i.e. 25 percent in 1994, 9.8
percent in 1995 and 3.1 percent thereafter.
Financing
3.15 The Project cost of US$15.0 million equivalent would be financed as shown in
Table 3.3. The IDA credit of US$9.8 million equivalent would finance 65 percent of total
project costs. The Government of Denmark would provide US$4.0 million on a grant basis
under joint co-financing arrangements with IDA. Cross-conditionalities will be established
between the effectiveness of the IDA credit and the effectiveness of DANIDA financing.
The Government of Benin would finance US$0.5 million and the project would require
budgetary allocations in the Public Investment Program (PIP) of CFAF 30 million in 1994,
CFAF 40 million in 1995, CFAF 53 million in 1996 and CFAF 34 million in 1997.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would allocate these
amounts in the Public Investment Program and timely deposit them in the Project Account
according to a time table agreed upon with IDA.
Table 3.3                    Project Financing Plan
(in US$ mfllion)
Source of Funds         Foreign         Local          Total
Government of Benin                0.16          0.29           0.45
Communities                        0.59          0.18           0.77
Government of Denmark              3.36          0.62            3.98
IDA                                8.44          1.36            9.80
TOTAL SOURCES                     12.55          2.45           15.00
3.16 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the financial contribution of the
communities would be determined on the basis of the willingness to pay studies (Para. 2.29)
and in respect of the level of services provided. Communities would for instance finance
the full cost of the superstructure of wells and boreholes, the local transport costs and
installation costs of the VLOM pumps, the full cost of motorized pumps and 10 percent of
the cost of piped networks and of solar pumping systems. On average, communities would
finance about six percent of the capital costs of their water supply systems. They would also
finance 25 percent of the costs of the sanitation facilities constructed in schools and health
centers. Household latrines would be fully financed by the beneficiaries and have not been
included in project costs.
Procurement
3.17 The procurement methods for all project items and for the items to be financed by
IDA are summarized in Table 3.4. IDA guidelines of procurement will apply to items
financed jointly by the Government of Denmark and IDA. International competitive bidding



- 16 -
(ICB) would be used for 41 percent of all procurement and 66 percent of the procurement
of goods and works.
3.18 Civil Works. Borehole drilling would be tendered through ICB. Because of the
demand-driven nature of the project where communities plan their systems, the SRHs will
annually program the works which would be packaged in contracts regrouping 30 to 40
boreholes. Discounts for the combined execution of two or more packages would neither
be solicited from bidders nor considered in contract award. Local drilling contractors would
receive a margin of preference of 7.5 percent when comparing bids with those of foreign
contractors.
3.19 Rehabilitation of existing boreholes (about 20 per year), construction of new wells
(about 20 per year) and civil works for small piped systems (5 per year), borehole
superstructure and drains, and, generally, civil works contracts exceeding US$20,000 would
be tendered through local competitive bidding (LCB). Individual contracts awarded under
LCB would not exceed US$200,000, up to an aggregate value of US$1,900,000. Foreign
firms would not be precluded to participate. Civil works for improving existing wells and
cisterns and for the construction of spring catchments and of latrines, for individual contracts
of less than US$20,000 would be tendered at the regional level by the SRHs among
prequalified small contractors and masons to be trained under the project. Given their lack
of experience in public procurement, tendering at the regional level would be carried out as
follows:
(a)   contracts would initially be let on the basis of fixed prices, up to an aggregate
value not to exceed US$100,000; and
(b)  thereafter contracts would be tendered through local shopping, up to an
aggregate value not to exceed US$350,000.
3.20 Goods and Equipment. Supply and delivery to the port of Cotonou of 1,500 VLOM
pumps would be tendered through ICB. Tender documents, including detailed specifications
and performance standards for three different lifts have been prepared by RWSG-WA which
would assist DH in the selection process. Electrical and solar equipment for the small piped
systems and, generally, supply contracts not exceeding US$150,000 would be tendered
through LCB, up to an aggregate amount of US$450,000. Local or international shopping
or procurement from IAPSO would be utilized to procure goods under contracts estimated
to cost less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000.
3.21 Local distributors of VLOM pumps would be identified and selected by DH in
parallel with the procurement process for the pumps. Distributors would be responsible for
transport and on-site delivery and installation of the pumps, supply of spare parts and of
training of mechanics. Communities will directly contract the distributor and SRHs and DH
will supervise and monitor the execution of these contracts.
3.22  Consulting Services and Trining.  Consultants would be hired for studies,
supervision, technical assistance and monitoring on terms and conditions acceptable to the



- 17 -
Association and in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Local
NGOs would be prequalified to assist communities on the basis of experience, demonstrated
capabilities, prior involvement in areas covered by the project, staff and sustainability
(Annex 2-3). They will receive a lump sum payments based on average time and costs for
each phase of the community's project cycle (mobilization, planning, construction and
follow-up). An international NGO with suitable experience in community-based water
projects may be directly contracted to train and evaluate the local NGOs. UNICEF would
be contracted to provide design and supervision services for the execution of some 200
boreholes contracted to private drilling companies in the Zou department and to provide
support services, up to an amount not to exceed US$650,000.
3.23 Project Management Costs. Eligible incremental operating expenditures consist of
travel allowances for Project staff, equipment maintenance, vehicle costs (fuel, maintenance
and insurance), office supplies and compensation of the accounting staff recruited in the
private sector under fixed-term contracts. They will be financed on a declining basis
(averaging 75 percent) by IDA and the Government of Denmark. Operating budgets of DH
and SRHs for project-related activities would be agreed with the Association.
Table 3.4             Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(in USS million; amounts rmanced by IDA are shown in italics)
Description     ICB      LCB      Shopping Other    NIF a    Total
Civil Works          4.62     1.87      0.33     0.10     0.00      6.92
3.14     0.98     0.17     0.05      0.00     4.34
Handpumps, Equipment,  1.50   0.42      0.27     0.00     0.20      2.39
Vehicles, etc.       1.02     0.27      0.17     0.00     0.00      1.46
Consulting Services,                             3.52     0.00      3.52
Training, Technical                              2.39     0.00      2.39
Assistance and NGO
Services
Operating Costs                                  0.78     0.22      1.00
0.44     0.00      0.44
PPF Refinancing                                  1.17     0.00      1.17
1.17     0.00      1.17
Total                6.12     2.29      0.60     5.57     0.42      15.00
IDA                  4.16     1.25      0.34     4.05     0.00      9.80
a/ Not IDA-financed
3.24 Procurement Documentation and Review. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government and DH would use the standard bidding documents
recommended by IDA to prepare the procurement documentation.  Sample bidding



- 18 -
documents have already been established for Benin and a new procurement code, reviewed
by IDA, has been submitted to the Parliament. Consultants will assist DH to prepare generic
tender documents, based on the sample bidding documents, for each specific type of works
or goods contract and the detailed procurement procedures, to be included in the Project
Implementation Manual. RWSG-WA assisted DH in preparing tie tender documents for the
VLOM pumps supply contract. Standard documentation for the procurement of consulting
services (letter of invitation, contract form) is already used by IDA-financed projects in
Benin. All contracts for goods and works estimated to cost US$25,000 or more, all
contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, and all consultant
contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$50,000 or more would be subject to IDA's
prior review. The remaining contracts would be subject to post review on a selective basis
(one in four).
3.25 Procurement information would be collected and included in the quarterly progress
reports. DH will submit to IDA updated information on: (a) contract award; (b) revised
cost estimates for individual contracts and the total costs; (c) revised schedule of procurement
actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion time for individual
contracts; and (d) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
The periodic operational audits (Para. 4.11) would include a review of procurement and
contract management practices.
Disbursements
3.26 The IDA credit and the DANIDA grant would be disbursed as shown in Table 3.5.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 1997 and the closing date would be
December 31, 1997. Disbursement schedules are given in Annex 2-2.
3.27 To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in local currency would be established
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. Opening the
Special Account will be a condition of credit effectiveness. DH would open and manage the
Special Account and would prepare the replenishment applications to be sent to IDA each
month under the signature of the Minister of Finance. DANIDA funds would be channelled
into the Special Account as IDA procurement and disbursement procedures will apply. The
authorized amount of the Special Account would be US$1,050,000 (US$700,000 drawn from
the IDA credit and US$350,000 from the DANIDA grant), which would cover three months
of eligible expenditures.
3.28 DH would also open and manage a Project Account in local currency with an initial
deposits of CFAF 30 million in a commercial bank in Cotonou. This will be a condition of
credit effectiveness. A sub-account would be opened in a commercial bank in Abomey-
Bohicon as soon as a bank branch would be established there. The Project Account will be
used for local counterpart funds and to pre-finance small contracts tendered at regional level.
It would be replenished monthly from the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
Amounts deposited by the Government would be adjusted annually in line with the increasing
financing requirements, in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Association during



- 19 -
negotiations. The SRHs would also maintain a petty cash account (not to exceed CFAF
200,000) to cover their operating costs.
Table 3.5         Disbursement of IDA Credit and DANIDA Grant
(in US$ million)
Amount Allocated
IDA    DANIDA
Category           Credit   Grant           Method of Disbursement
la.   Civil Works for Water    3.22      1.55  IDA 68%, Danida 32% of expenditure
Supplies
lb.   Civil  Works  for        0.63      0.30  IDA 68%, Danida 32% of expenditure
Sanitation Facilities
2a.   Equipment for Water      0.25      0.11  IDA 63%, Danida 27% of expenditure
Supplies
2b.   Supply of Handpumps      0.94      0.45  IDA 68%, Danida 32% of expenditure
2c.   Equipment and Vehicles   0.15      0.07 IDA 63%, Danida 27% of expenditure
for DH and DHA
3.    Consulting  Services,    1.67      0.82 IDA 68%, Danida 32% of expenditure
Training and Technical
Assistance  (including
NGOs and UNICEF)
4.    Training                 0.45      0.21  IDA 68%, Danida 32% of expenditure
5.    Operating Costs          0.39      0.13  Declining rate averaging 56% for IDA,
19% for Danida
6.    PPF Refinancing           1.17     0.00 Amount due
7.    Unallocated              0.93      0.34
TOTAL                          9.80      3.98
3.29 The payment by the community of its financial contribution to investments would be
a condition of the start-up of the works in the village. Rural communities would be required
to open a deposit account with the local rural credit agency (CLCAM) or make other
arrangements to secure their part of the investment costs. To the extent possible, community
funds would be used to finance advance payments to the contractors in order to expedite
mobilization.
3.30 Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation with the following
exceptions, for which certified statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be used: (i)
contracts costing less than US$20,000 equivalent; (ii) training courses and seminars held in
Benin; and (iii) travel allowances. SOEs would be certified by the managing director of DH
for Parts A and D and by the designated national program coordinator in DHA for Part C



- 20 -
(Sanitation). These SOEs would be subject to review by supervision missions, annual
financial audits and periodic operational audits.
Accounting and Audits
3.31 MEMH through DH would maintain separate accounts and records for all project
activities, including SOEs, the Special Account and the Project Accounts. An experienced
firm is being contracted to assist DH in establishing an accounting and budget system in
accordance with internationally acceptable accounting procedures and to train project staff.
The system would: (a) be decentralized at regional level; (b) provide cost accounting
information on the costs of individual village projects; and (c) permit rapid consolidation of
project expenditures. The establishment of the accounting and budget system would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
3.32 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) MEMH would have the
records and accounts of the Project audited for each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (b) the Special Account, the Project Account and SOEs will
be audited semi-annually; and (c) MEMH will submit the annual audit report to IDA within
six months of the end of each fiscal year and three months after the end of each semester for
the semestrial audits.  The selection of the auditors would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
4.01 The implementation arrangements and the implementation schedule are detailed in
Annexes 3-1 and 3-2 and summarized below.
Organization and Management
4.02  DH would be the implementing agency of the project. The deputy managing director
of DH has been designated as project coordinator. A small team has been set up which
includes an assistant coordinator, two technical assistants (one technical implementation
advisor and one community development advisor, already selected on a competitive basis)
and support staff. This team prepared a draft Project Implementation Manual (the table of
contents of the Manual is given in Annex 3-3) and launched a campaign to disseminate the
sector strategy. The draft Implementation Manual was finalized during negotiations. The
central unit would be responsible for overall project coordination, establishment of guidelines
and standards, management of contracts tendered through ICB or LCB and accounting and
financial management of the project and would provide assistance to the SRHs. One
accountant is being recruited in the private sector to complement the team.
4.03   DH would delegate the implementation of the Sanitation component (Annex 3-4) to
the DHA of the MS which would appoint a national program coordinator. Decentralized
implementation would be the responsibility of two regional teams, established in the DDS.
Each team  would comprise the following skill mix:  one unit head/planner, one



- 21 -
promoter/trainer for on-site facilities and one promoter/trainer for hygiene education and
promotion activities. The program coordinator has been appointed and the staff of the
regional teams has been selected before negotiations. Working relationship and respective
responsibilities of the MEMH and the MS have been spelled out in an agreement signed by
the two ministers (Annex 3-5).
4.04 The two SRHs of Zou and Atlantique would manage the project at regional level.
To ensure closer and easier follow-up of RWS activities, the SRH of Atlantique would be
transferred outside of Cotonou. Two teams, each comprising two engineers, one community
development specialist and one accountant would coordinate and supervise the local NGOs,
check village applications and project documents, program the construction contracts and
delegate supervision of works to local consulting engineers. The selection of the staff of the
SRHs has been completed before negotiations. Two follow-up committees (commissions
multipartites de suivi - CMS), made up of representatives of interested ministerial
departments (Health, Territorial Administration, Planning), of elected representatives and of
NGO associations would also be established at regional level and would receive training and
assistance from the international NGO.
Project Cycle at Village Level
4.05 The Village Project Cycle would start with the submission of an initial application for
improving water supply to the SRH. After checking the SRH would contract one of the
prequalified NGOs--or a joint venture between a NGO and local consultants if the technical
solution is complex--to assist the community to mobilize and to prepare a village project
document that would provide the preliminary design of the facilities and a description of the
operation and maintenance arrangements as well as of the cost recovery and financial
procedures. The mobilization phase includes the establishment of a Water and Sanitation
Committee (WSC) that would represent the community and the NGO would ensure the
participation of women in the mobilization and planning process. The village project
document would be passed to the SRH to check its conformity with policies and guidelines.
The SRH would then prepare the procurement documentation and packages for boreholes,
large wells and piped systems. Villages would contract local artisans or provide in-kind
contribution for the simpler works and would also contract directly the distributor of
handpumps for delivery and installation. The NGO would train the community in managing
and maintaining its water facilities and provide follow-up support and would carry out the
hygiene education program throughout the process.
Organization of Operation and Maintenance
4.06 Maintenance of point source water supply systems (wells, handpumps and spring
catchments) would be the responsibility of communities with day-to-day management
provided by their water and sanitation committees. The WSC would monitor the use of the
water point, collect revenues, keep accounts, and make repairs themselves or hire the
services of a private mechanic. Several WSC members (normally women) would be trained
to perform all routine maintenance and repairs, and local mechanics would be trained to
make all types of repairs by the importer or representatives of the supplier. Maintenance



- 22 -
of piped systems would also be the responsibility of the WSC which would contract
maintenance functions to local mechanics or representatives of the supplier of equipment.
Water User Groups would be established for the operation of each delivery point and would
collect revenues to be transferred to the WSC on the basis of the metered consumption of
the delivery point.
Phasing and Implementation Schedule
4.07 The project would be implemented in three phases. The expected outcome of the first
phase would be to create an environment enabling the rural communities to participate and
to initiate the communication process.  This phase, financed by PPF advances of
US$1.2 million, started in July 1993 and to be completed in July 1994, would allow to: (a)
select and train project staff; (b) develop standards and specifications; (c) select the pumps
and the distributors; (d) identify, train and test local NGOs, local consultants and other
resource persons; and (e) design and test the communication campaign targeted on
communities.  The second phase of implementation would start with a five-month
information campaign and the training and prequalification of small contractors. The NGOs
would contact the communities by mid-October 1994. It is expected that the first batch of
village projects would be programmed and packaged in February 1995 and be completed by
the end of 1995. A second batch of projects would be designed, programmed and executed
from October 1995 to December 1996. The third phase (January-June 1997) would be
devoted to the validation of the demand-driven approach and would include: (a) an
exhaustive operational audit covering all facets of project implementation; (b) surveys of use
and impact of the water and sanitation facilities; and (c) formulation of recommendations for
the replication of the project.
Reporting and Monitoring
4.08 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that quarterly progress reports will be
prepared by the SRHs and consolidated by DH and sent to IDA. These reports would
include: (a) progress against agreed schedule of activities and key performance indicators;
and (b) procurement information and cost estimates, updated as needed (Para. 3.24).
4.09 Key monitoring indicators refer to effectiveness in implementation and to progress
in achieving project objectives. They would cover the following: (a) the effectiveness and
sustainability of the decentralized planning process; (b) progress in developing private sector
capacity; (c) the ownership and community management of facilities; and (d) the use and
impact of facilities. Annex 4-1 provides a list of detailed indicators that would be discussed
and agreed upon during negotiations.
Supervision and Evaluation
4.10 The innovative nature of the project and the inherent dispersion of project activities
requires an intensive supervision. The Government and the co-financiers have requested
RWSG-WA, which was involved at an early stage, to provide support in this respect.
RWSG-WA would schedule about 15 staff-months of a rural water supply specialist and of



- 23 -
a community development specialist. RWSG-WA's involvement would include field
supervision, assessment of compliance with established procedures and feedback on the
possible needs to modify them and cross-fertilization with other projects in West Africa.
4.11 Evaluation will refer primarily to the effectiveness of the decentralized approach.
Self-evaluation and exchange of experiences of the NGOs and the regional teams would be
encouraged and supported by the central unit and the international NGO through quarterly
sessions. External evaluation would also be provided through periodic operational audits
covering; (a) procurement and contract management practices; (b) performance of the
contractors; and (c) accounting and financial management.
4.12 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, once a year, DH would organize
a joint IDA/DANIDA/Government review of project implementation covering: (i) progress
reports and annual work program and budgets; (ii) status of monitoring indicators listed in
Annex 3-8; and (iii) the sectoral investment program. Other donors represented in Cotonou
would be invited to facilitate the dissemination of lessons learned and experience accumulated
during implementation; and
4.13 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a mid-term project review would
be carried out by the relevant Government agencies jointly with IDA and DANIDA no later
than March 31, 1996 to assess: (a) project management and coordination; (b) timeliness in
providing budgetary allocations and counterpart funding to DH; (c) effectiveness of the
WSCs and capacity of communities to plan and manage their water supply facilities;
(d) performance of NGOs and local consultants in assisting communities to plan their water
systems and performance of contractors in constructing water and sanitation facilities;
(e) impact of sanitation and hygiene education programs; and (f) overall progress of project
implementation with respect to key indicators. DH would prepare and transmit to IDA an
evaluation report one month in advance of the mid-term review. The procedures followed
in project implementation, the pace of execution and the allocation of responsibilities may
have to be modified, depending on the outcome of the review.
V. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01 Through the construction of water facilities offering closer and more reliable sources
of supply to the communities, the project would first allow to save time and efforts in
fetching water, particularly in the dry season. Health benefits would be generated by the
synergistic effects of the improved quality of drinking water, the increased consumption and
the improved personal hygiene and excreta disposal. Waterbome diseases would be expected
to decline and consumption of safe water would interrupt the transmission of the Guinea
worm, endemic in the Department of Zou. Iodine deficiencies disorders, also frequent in
Zou, could also be eradicated by equipping wells and boreholes with iodine-releasing devices
which proved their effectiveness in Mali and CAR.



- 24 -
5.02 By targeting rural communities and particularly small communities which could not
have access to safe water and improved sanitation, the project would benefit the poorest
strata of population. Time savings and improved health should translate into increased
productivity of adults and increased informal sector activities and should also generate
greater opportunities for education and training. The emphasis placed on the development
of the private sector--particularly of small contractors and artisans--and of low-cost
technologies would also create greater employment opportunities by promoting labor-
intensive techniques.
5.03 Time saving benefits would accrue to women and girls who are traditionally
responsible for household supply. Women would be the primary target of the mobilization
process as the sustainability of cost recovery mechanisms would depend on their contribu-
tions. As such, they would be encouraged by the NGO teams to grasp opportunities to
participate at all levels which would help them develop skills in decision-making and in
management, which will be applicable in other domains.
Environmental Impact
5.04 Improvement of sanitation facilities and hygiene education would bring improvements
of the village environment. Particular attention would be paid in design and execution of the
physical works to mitigate potential negative environmental effects generated by the
incremental use of water resources and the increased volumes of waste water, particularly
in the vicinity of the new water points. Groundwater resources to be mobilized will be
minimal.  Wherever higher yields or spring water would be tapped, hydrogeological
investigations will be conducted to ensure sustainability and adequate management of
resources. Water quality will be tested and monitored. The interactive design and
ihnplementation process should also result in better siting of point sources in regard of
potential contamination and better management of water point surrounds. Technological
options focus on renewable energies (handpumps and solar energy). The project does not
include dams or resettlement.  The project has been assigned to category B.  An
environmental study was carried out in January 1994. The executive summary of the study
is attached as Annex 5-1.
Sustainability
5.05 The overall project concept is geared to ensure greater sustainability. The demand-
driven approach would create genuine ownership of the facilities by the villagers. Operation
and maintenance of the water systems would be independent of government's subsidies or
technical inputs and the systematic recourse to the local private sector and local organizations
in executing works and providing goods and services would further enhance the sustainability
of the project. In addition, the integration of water supply, sanitation and hygiene education
would maximize the health benefits and ensure a long-term impact.



- 25 -
Rsks
5.06 Main risks pertain to: (a) the capacity of DH to adjust to its new responsibilities and
its commitment to not interfere with communities' decisions; and (b) the effectiveness of
NGOs and other private actors in dealing with communities and cooperating with
governmental entities. To mitigate these risks, strengthening of DH and SRHs through
selection and training of key personnel already takes during the PPF period. NGOs and
private contractors would also be prequalified and trained well in advance of the start-up of
field operations. The training program will be extended throughout the implementation phase
to allow for self-evaluation and exchanges of experience and lessons between the various
actors, and complemented by the feedback from the external supervision team.
5.07 Another risk would be represented by the inadequate allocation of counterpart funds
by the Government. This would not create any delay in the execution of works--for which
counterpart funding is provided by the communities--but rather would undermine the
efficiency of project management. Substantial assurances have been required from the
Government to mitigate this risk which would be closely monitored and scrutinized in the
mid-term review. Moreover, MEMH and DH fully acknowledge that the new missions of
DH require permanent and secure funding and could no longer depend on the sporadic
support of external financial assistance.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
6.01 The following actions have been taken before negotiations:
(a)   a draft policy letter and a draft Implementation Manual have been sent to IDA
(Paras 3.01 and 4.02);
(b)   an international NGO has been selected to manage the training activities
(Para. 3.12);
(c)   the sanitation program coordinator and the staff of the regional teams of the
DHA have been selected (Para. 4.03); and
(d)   the teams of the SRHs have been selected (Para. 4.04).
6.02 During negotiations, confirmation and agreement was obtained from the Government
that:
(a)   DH would discontinue its force account activities before January 1, 1995 and
divest of its drilling equipment before January 1, 1996 (Para. 3.11);



- 26 -
(b)  the amounts required for counterpart funding of equipment and incremental
operating expenditures would be timely allocated and deposited in the Project
Account (Paras 3.15 and 3.28);
(c)   the financial contribution of the communities would be determined on the
basis of the willingness to pay studies and in respect of the level of services
provided (Para. 3.16);
(d)   standard bidding documents recommended by IDA would be used to prepare
the procurement documentation (Para. 3.24);
(e)   MEMH would have the records and accounts of the Project audited for each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and would
submit the audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year. The records and accounts of the Special Account, the Project Account
and SOEs would have to be audited semi-annually (Para. 3.32);
(f)   quarterly progress reports would be sent by DH to IDA (Para. 4.08);
(g)   once a year, DH would organize a joint IDA/DANIDA/Government review
of project implementation and of the sector investment program (Para. 4.12);
and
(h)   a mid-term project review would be carried out by the relevant Govermnent
agencies jointly with IDA no later than March 31, 1996 (Para. 4.13).
6.03  The signed letter of sector policy was transmitted to IDA before Board presentation:
(Para. 3.01).
6.04  The following actions will be taken before effectiveness:
(a)   the contract for supplying handpumps would be awarded (Para. 3.08);
(b)  the Special Account would be opened by DH in a commercial bank (Para.
3.27);
(c)  the Project Account would be opened with an initial deposit of CFAF 30
million (Para. 3.28);
(d)   auditors would be appointed and an accounting and financial monitoring
system would be established (Paras 3.31 and 3.32); and
(e)   agreements with co-financier would be effective (Para. 3.15).



- 27 -
Recommendation
6.05 With the above agreements and actions, the proposed project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR 7.0 million (US$9.8 million equivalent) to the Republic of Benin.



0



REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN                                       Annexe 1-1
Page l of 6
MINISTERE DE L'ENERGIE,
DES MOMUS ET DE LHYDRAuLiQuE
N   O16/MEMHIDC/DH
LETIXE DE POLITIQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DU SECTEUR DE L'EAU POTABLE ET DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT
EN MILIEU RURAL
Ceue letre a pour but de decriTe la politiquc sectorielle et les principes d'acdon que
nous entendons- suivre-pour d6velopper les services d'alimentation en eau potable et
d'ass'inissement en milieu rural. Dtes mesures et un calendrier d6tailles figurent dans le plan
d'action fourmi en annexe.
Streae gcs6rale de ddveloppenent du secteur
L'Cau, source de vie, a toujouTs consttu6 pour le Gouvernement de la R6publique du B6nin
une priorite tant dans le milieu rural que dans les grandes villes et agglomerations
periurbaines. La mobilisation et la mise i disposition de cette ressource fondamentale avait
toujours occupE une place de-premier plan;, - iProfltanL de la deMi6re46cennie qui avait Ete
decrEtte Dcennie Inteittionale de>jE#u Yotabe te, l'smicmt (DIEPA), la
Republique -du Benin a, ave      le tconcours tc ses dift6rcnts partenalres au d6vcloppcmcnt,
Elabor6 et executE plusicurs projets d'Hydr ulique viliageoise qui ont permis de couvrir lea
besoins urgents des populations rurales en eau potable.  Cependant, la construction
d'ouvragcs modernes s'est faite a un rythme elevc qui n'a pas toujours permis dc consacrer
suffiwmment de temps i la verification de l'intEr6t des conmunautes a utiliser et gerer les
installations-mises A leur disposition. .La tenue de la consultation g!obale mondiale sur Tleau
potabk ce l'aseaitssement I  New Delhi, en Ide en 1990 a dEgage pour chaque pays, h
n6cessiO de se doter d'une strategic dim le seteur. .
La strat6gic de d6veloppernnt du secteur de l'alimentation en eau potable et de
leassainissencwnt,en milicu rural, adopt6e par le Gouvernement de la R6publique du Bednin le
17 mars 1992 constitue UnC nouvelle etape I franchir par rapport i la politique men6e
antcrieurement. Elie se fixe comme objectifs de maximiser l'impact et I'utilisation effective
des installations,villageoises et d'assurer le d6veloppmennt durable de I'alimentation en eau I
potable et de l'assainisserment en donnant aux communautds. rurales un r6le central dans Ic
processus d'elaboration et d'cxecutioi dc projets d'uiveMent puis dim lour exploitation.'



Annexe 1-1
Page 2 of 6
Les principes de base do la nouvelle strategie sont ls suivants:
*   dcenuralisaion du processus de prise de decision se traduisant par un rolo accru
donn6 aux commuutc pour a'asurer que les installations r6pondent A une demande
r6elle des populations et aussi par une d6concentration significative des services de la
Direction de I'Hydraulique.
participation financitrc des conunurnut6s  l l'investissement initial et prise en charge
de 1'exploitation par les communaut6s.
-   r6ducdon des coCts de construction et d'exploitation des ouvrages par des choix
techniques adapt0s fozxl6s sur les besoins r6els des communaut6s et correspondant i
Jeur volont6 at capacit6 do payer.
*   dsenwpgecment de l'Etat des tiches d'ex6cution des travaux et, correlativement,
participation accrue du secteur priv6 national, tant au niveau des 6tudes que des
travaux pour permcttrc I'6mergence d'entreprises comp6tentes et comp6titives.
-   integration des messges (sur la gestion am6lior6e des installations d'assainisscmcnt.
l'hygi&ne et le maintien d'un environnement communautaire physiquement propre)
damr les activiths de mobilisaion ot de formation des communaut6s cibhcs.
Mise en oeuvre
Comptc tenu de son caractbrc innovateur, la mise en oeuvre de cette nouvelle strategie
devra etrc proreulve dans to tempr et dans l'cspac pour permettre une n6cssairc mis A
l'Epreuve sur Ic terrain de ces principes dans une zone g6ographique donn6e, graduele tant
dan ses objectifs que dans les actions en cours de r6alisation ou de pr6paration, concrke par
ia mise on oeuyre de prosomm  de travaux bas6 sur la volonte des communaut6s rurales,
rEaUte par la modulation de Ia participation des communautfs en fonction de leur capacit6
r6elle.
La premiere wape de miss en oeuvre coincide avec la r6alisation d'un projet qui a re;u le
soutien dc I'Aociation Internationale pour le D6veloppement et du Royaume du Danemark.
Elic aura pour but de cr6r je contexte favorable A la prise en charge effcctive de
l'alimentaton en eau potable ct de  I' sent par les communaut6s rurales. La r6ussite
de co programme ne soa pas 6valu6e en termes de r6alisations physiques, mais en termes
d'1vidence de l'udlisation contlne des instalbations apres Ic retrait des interventions
ext6risures au milieu.  Pans une deumxie 6tape, la nouvelle strathgie sera 6tendue a
I'ensemble du pays.
Enamsnments de l'Etat
Pour garanuir la mise en application des dispositions de la nouvelle strat6gie, I'Etat
s'engage A:
2



Annexe 1-1
Page 3 of 6
-sc d6gager des activit6s de construction;
*ocuvrer pour la promotion du secteur priv6 local et de l'expertise nationale;
*mettre les moyens n6cessaires, en particulier budgetaires, a la disposition de la Direction
de l'Hydraulique ct de la Direction de l'Hygifne et de l'Assainissemcnt, de mani&re
pgarantir
Dpositon  d prlnipes d'appikation
=WKets          tairl La Direction de i'Hydraulique ne decidera plus a priori quelles
communaut6s bdn6ficieront des 6quipements d'eau ou d'assainissement. Los conununaut6s
desireuses d'am6liorer leur systbmes d'alimentation en eau et Icur environnement sanitaire
devront introduire elles-m6mes une demande de subvention auprFs du service r6gional de
l'Hydraulique (SRH). Pour cela les communaut6s pr6pareront leur propre dossicr de projct
avec l'assistance d'ONC b6ninoises qui les aideront a se mobiliser, A mettre en place un
comite d'eau et d'assainissement et a d6finir leurs propres proc6dures de gestion at
d'entretien des installations. Lcs SRH regrouperont les projets communaumtires,
programmeront les travaux et proc6deront aux appels d'offres.
Einan?mazal Le principe de financement des frais d'entretien par les communaut6s est
d6ji introduit au B6dnin.  11 a 66 tres bien acceptc lorsque les villages b6n6ficient
d'6quipement fiables et d'un acces facile aux artisans reparateurs et aux pibces de rechange.
Les communaut6s devront 6galement payer une part du codt des installations fournissant le
niveau minimum de services. On encouragera la mise en place d'instaLations permettant un
mcillcur niveau de service; cependant les communautes devraient payer une part significative
des coOts additionnels correspondants.  Les normes de participation finanuiere scront
d6teftifides en fonction des r6sultats des enquetes sp6cifiques conduites pour 6valuer la
volonte de payer des communaut6s en fonction des niveaux de service qui leur sont propos6s.
Choix                 Les communaut6s d6cideront non seulement si elles veulen.
participer au programme, mals aussi quels equipements d'alimentation  en cau et
d'assainissement doivent Ite install6s. Les communaut6s auront ainsi la possibilit6 de faire
un choix parmi les options suivantes (ou une;combinaison de ces options): rEhabilitation ou
amilioration do points d'eau existants, six types de points d'eau et trois types d'exhaure. Le
Gouvernement a par ailleurs d6cid6 que le choix du type de pompe A recommander aux
cominmunauts villageoises sera fait sur la base d'uti appel d'offres intemational. Le(s) type(s)
dc pompe s6lectionn6(s) sera(ont) utilise(s) dans tous les projets futurs d'AEP en milieu rural
afin d'etablir une assise solidc pour l'exploitation at le'ntretien des pompes manuelles dans
les quatre rEgions non dircctenint touchdes durant la prmmi6re etape de mise en oeuvre de la
nouvelle stratEgic. Comme par le passe le codt des latrines a etW un obstacle, majeut i leur
3



Annexe 1-1
Page 4 of 6
diffusion, des latrines h faible co8t, utiuiunt au maximum les materiaux locaux seront
propos6cs aux families.
MoalitLs                Tous les travaux, biens et services seront r6alises ou fournis par
le sectcur priv6. Lexistence d'un r6seau national fiable d'entrepreneurs, consultants,
artisans et reparateurs de pompes devrait renforcer la p6rennitd des installations.
L'*nergence de ce r6seau n6cessitera de ne plus limiter I'accts aux march6s publics du
secteur priv6 national, et pour cela: (a) d'adjuger rapidement les marchks; (b) de payer i
temps les factures des entrepriscs; (c) de garantir un courant r6gulier d'activits pimtentielles;
ct (d) dc fournir aux entrepriscs UnD assistance i la formadon ct A la gcstion.
aloitation et entretien L'entretien de points deau (puits, pompes manuelles et captage
de 5ource) sera a la charge des communautd3 villageoises avec une gestion journaliore assur6e
par les comites d'cau et d'asainissemt (CEA). Les CEA contr6leront l'exploitation des
points d'eau, collecteront Ics recettes. ticndront la comptabilit6, et feront Ies reparations eux-
memes. ins pourront s'assurer lc services d'un artisan r6parateur priv6 de Icur choix.
Plusieurs membres des CEA (de pr6f6rences les femmes) seront form6s A 1'entretien des
pompes ct aux r6paradons de routine. Les artisans r6parateurs seront form6s A tous les types
de r6paration par l'importateur ou Ic repr6sentant du  fournisseur.   L'cntrctien et
lexploitation des petits reseaux sera Cgalement A la charge des CEA qui pourront s'assurer
les services de r6parateurs locaux ou dcs repr6sentants du foui fisseur des 6quipements. Une
aociation des usagers sera crMe pour l'exploitation dc chal. e point de livraison collectif et
pour la collecte les recettes dont une partie sera transf6ree au UEA sur la base des relev6s des
compteurs instll6s sur chaque point de livraison.
Pla  d'ctio
Un calendrier d6tailld de mine en oeuvre des actions ct principes dcfinis ci-dessus est donnc
dans l'annexe ci-apres.
Pait i Cotonou, le 03      1994
Le Ministre de l'Enrr    -iI1set
de F'H   yd ,'
&Wr-U3LiQUUg<   ..
4



Annexe 1-1
Pag? 5 Df 6
PL&A.N iYACFJON
*    R6oegaalsadon des snuctum de Is DUI                                Man 1994
*    Nominatim peoe dues senvices r6gionaux                             Avril 1994
*    Intallation du service r6gional de I'Atltique hors de Cotonou    Octobrc 1994
*    Mise en pace d'un sysi6ne de suivi de rutilisation et de l'impaca  Mars 1995
des insullations d'AEP et d'assainissemcnn dans les d6partentls
du Zou at de I'Atiantique
*    O6nhralisation du sysime de suivi i tous les departements          Mars 1997
Udalsldoo ot advli
*    Mise A jour du manuel d'ex6cution                                   Annucllc
-    Misn & jour des spEcifcations techniques, crithres de conceplion at  Annucile
documents-types d'uppd d'offrcs
-    Priperadon de programmes d'activit6s au niveau des services         Annuelle
*    Preparadon de rappotu d'evahaon et de suivi de la perfomace         Annuelle
du irvenms du sectur public et priv6 (ONO, edteprises et
comxiiauat) et de I'lmpa  et de Putilisadondes Instalions d'ABP
et d'inh_
*    lasclrption au Programne d'invesuissemespublics (PIP) des fonda    Inscription
de coireparti n6conains & ia r6alisation du projat at virein   des  annuelle au PIP
cEdits incrt au compte du projet                                  at virements
*emnesxade
*    I     _uculptom au budSm de f  h mne   des crdt n6cessaires au      Inscription
f            - dfeafif d  SRH, y compris leun misions de suivi  annudel



FAX 229 31 08 90       PAXONSPSHV                                      P06
Amhie  1 1
souc. *u d6ioppumeot dn eur p6                                    Page 6 of 6
Janvier 1995
*    arwt dc activit6s de foraSe en rdare
*    cession des Equipements de construction de poins d'eau             Janvier 1996
*    tranfet progrertif des activids d'implancon a g6ophysique au       Janvier 1996
secew priv6 bninuis
*    4 ONG foni6es et qualifri (ayans sist6 10 villageu& etablir des     Juillea 1995
dossias de proJeu cot mnunauuires sadsfasunts) dans chacun des
ddpartemcnts du Zou at de l Atlamique
*    au moins 20 masons form6s et qualifi6s dans chacun des doux        luillet 1995
dpartements
*    mise en place d'un r6seau fonctionnel d'installation, de stockagc et  Juillet 1995
de reparation dans le Zou et l'Atlantiqje
*    misc en place du reseau dans lea autres d6partements               Juillet 1996
Gesdon
-    mise en place du sysim  comptable et budgdiaire permetant de      SepLimbre 1994
swvre I  d6peames du projet, la iareb6a et le coOt des
inscalltions des comnnautui dam le Zou et I'Atlannque
-    g6ndralisaion du syst6me aux aures d_pamus                        D6cembre 1996
*    mise en pasce d'instasatiom foncionnelles d'alimentauion en eau      Taux de
potable et d'uaini_ dam 350 conunauts;Tn misc en place            r6aisation dc
d'insaIations fonctionnelles d'assainissemes dan 300 ecoles et       30% en
centres do san                                                   d6ceimbre 1995
et 100% en
aurs 1997



Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
Million CFAF            US$ Thousand          %      % of
Component                           Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total  Foreign  Base Costs
A. RURAL WATER SUPPLY
Al. CIVIL WORKS
Wells                                   18.2    5.6   23.8       30.0    9.2   39.2
Cisterns & Springs                       2.9    0.9    3.8        4.8    1.5    6.3
Boreholes                               36.3    5.6   41.9       60.0    9.3   69.3
Superstructure & Drains                 73.6   22.7   96.3      121.5   37.4  158.9
Small Systems                           53.7    6.2   59.9       88.8   10.3   99.1
Sub-total               2475.8  372.3 2848.1    4111.1  617.5 4728.6       86.9%      37.9%
A2. EQUIPMENT
Transp./lnst. Handpumps                  2.5    0.5    3.0        4.2    0.8    5.0
Solar & Electrical Equipment            15.8    1.8   17.6       26.0    3.0   29.0
Sub-total                279.3   35.1  314.3      460.8   57.8  518.6      88.8%       4.2%
A3. CONSULTING SERVICES
Design & Supervision                    76.3   15.2   91.5      126.9   25.3  152.3
Support to Private Sector              113.8   13.3  127.1      190.4   22.3  212.7
NGO Costs                              166.8   33.2  200.0      276.5   55.0  331.5
Sub-total                407.4   99.3  506.7      676.0  164.8  840.8      80.4%       6.7%
SUB-TOTAL A               3448.5  540.2 3988.6    5726.4  896.2 6622.5      86.5%      53.0%
B. SUPPLY OF HANDPUMPS                 767.1    0.0  767.1    1277.5    0.0 1277.5    100.0%        10.2%
C. SANITATION
Cl. CIVIL WORKS
School Latrines/Cisterns               326.0  100.8  426.8      540.0  167.0  707.0
Health Center Latrines                  86.9   26.9  113.8      144.0  44.5  188.5
Office Rehabilitation                    3.5    1.1    4.7        6.0    1.9    7.9
Sub-total                416.5  128.8  545.3      690.0  213.4  903.4      76.4%       7.2%
C2. EQUIPMENT
Vehicles                                29.5    0.0   29.5       50.0    0.0   50.0
Computers & Equipment                    7.1    0.0    7.1       12.0    0.0   12.0
Sub-total                 39.5    0.0   39.5       67.0    0.0   67.0    100.0%        0.5%



Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 3
Detailed Project Costs (continued)
CFAF Million            US$ Thousand         %       % of
Component                          Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total  Foreign  Base Costs
C3. CONSULTING SERVICES
Marketing & Implementation Specialist    1.8   0.6    2.3        3.0    0.9    3.9
Marketing & Training Materials          19.5   6.2   25.6       33.0   10.4  43.4
Sub-total                156.8  39.5  196.3       264.0   66.6  330.6     79.9%       2.6%
C4. OPERATING COSTS
Staff salaries (DDS & DHA)              0.0   40.8   40.8        0.0   67.8   67.8
Travel Allowances                       52.4   16.2  68.6       86.9   26.9  113.9
Office & Transport Costs                26.0    3.0   29.1      43.2    5.0   48.2
Sub-total                 91.5   61.6  153.1      151.8  102.3  254.1     59.8%       2.0%
SUB-TOTAL C               704.3  229.9  934.2    1172.8  382.2 1555.1      75.4%       12.5%
D. CAPACITY BUILDING
DI. TRAINING
DH & SRH Teams                          23.5    4.7   28.3      39.5    7.9   47.4
NGOs                                    38.1    7.7   45.9      64.6   13.1   77.7
Consulting Engineers & Contractors      13.2   2.7   15.9       22.3    4.5   26.9
Artisans, Masons & Repairers            21.3   4.3   25.6       35.8    7.2   43.0
Evaluation                               8.5    1.7   10.2      14.0   2.8   16.8
Sub-total                206.6  41.7  248.4       347.6  70.2  417.8      83.2%       3.3%
D2. SUPPORT TO DH & SRHs               277.8  32.3  310.2      462.0  53.8  515.8      89.6%        4.1%
D3. STUDIES                             36.0   4.2   40.2       60.0    7.0   67.0     89.6%        0.5%
D4. MONITORING& AUDITS                 106.1   12.3  118.4     176.0  20.4  196.4      89.6%        1.6%
D5. OFFICES & EQUIPMENT
Equipment                               14.5   0.0   14.5       24.6    0.0   24.6
Vehicles                                0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0
Sub-total                 90.8    0.0   90.8      152.6   0.0  152.6    100.0%        1.2%
D6. OPERATING COSTS
Staff salaries                          0.0   12.1   12.1        0.0   20.1   20.1
Travel Allowances                       13.7   4.2   17.9       22.7    7.0   29.7
Office Costs                            19.5   6.0   25.6       32.4   10.0  42.4
Equipment Maintenance                   4.3    0.5    4.8        7.2    0.8    8.0
Vehicle Costs                           52.2    6.0   58.2      86.4   10.0  96.4
Sub-total                186.1  122.7  308.7      308.6  203.6  512.2     60.2%       4.1%
SUB-TOTAL D               903.4  213.2 1116.7    1506.9  355.0 1861.9      80.9%      14.9%



Annex 2-1
Page 3 of 3
Detailed Project Costs (continued)
CFAF Million            US$ Thousand          %      % of
Component                           Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total  Foreign  Base Costs
E. PPF REFINANCING                     690.0    0.0  690.0    1169.5    0.0 1169.5    100.0%         9.4%
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                  6513.4  983.3 7496.6    1085.3 1633.4 12486.5      86.9%     100.0%
Physical Contingencies            582.3   98.3  680.7      968.4  163.3 1131.7     85.6%        9.1%
Price Contingencies             479.9  390.6  870.5      732.7  647.6 1380.3     53.1%       11.1%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   7575.6 1472.2 9047.8   12554.1 2444.4 14998.5      83.7%     120.1%






Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Financing and Disbursements
Filnancing Plan by Category
(US$ Thousand)
GOVT OF                   GOVT OF
BENIN       VILLAGES    DENMARK            IDA           TOTAL
Amount   %  Amount   %   Amount   %  Amount   %  Amount   %
la. Civil Works Water Supply  0.0  0.0%   247.2  4.3%  1769.6  30.6%  3760.4  65.1%  5777.2 100.0%
lb. Civil Works Sanitation  0.0  0.0%   282.5  25.0%   271.2  24.0%   576.4  51.0%  1130.2 100.0%
2a. Equipment Water Supply   0.0  0.0%   240.2  37.6%   119.4  18.7%   278.6  43.7%   638.3 100.0%
2b. Supply of Handpumps    0.0  0.0%     0.0  0.0%   479.3  32.0%  1018.6  68.0%  1497.9 100.0%
2c. Equipment and Vehicles
for DH & DHA          26.1  10.0%    0.0  0.0%    70.5  27.0%   164.6  63.0%   261.2 100.0%
3. Consulting Services,
UNICEF and NGOs        0.0  0.0%      0.0  0.0%   894.4  32.0%  1900.6  68.0%  2795.0 100.0%
4. Training                0.0  0.0%     0.0  0.0%   233.0  32.0%   495.2  68.0%   728.2 100.0%
5. Operating Costs
DH & DHA             420.2  42.0%     0.0  0.0%   145.2  14.5%   435.6  43.5%  1001.0 100.0%
6. PPF Refinancing         0.0  0.0%     0.0  0.0%     0.0  0.0%  1169.5 100.0%  1169.5 100.0%
TOTAL                    446.4  3.0%   770.0  5.1%  3982.7  26.6%  9799.4  65.3%14998.5 100.0%
Disbursements by Category
(USS Thousand)
1994       1995           1996      1997          % of
S2     Si    S2      Si    S2       SI    Total  Total
la. Civil Works Water Supply    498.2  761.2 1817.0  786.6 1914.2   0.0 5777.2   38.5%
lb. Civil Works Sanitation       53.6  137.1  206.5  338.7  394.2    0.0 1130.2    7.5%
2a. Equipment Water Supply        0.0    0.0  250.0    0.0  388.3    0.0  638.3    4.3%
2b. Supply of Handpumps         459.5    0.0  474.0    0.0  564.4    0.0 1497.9   10.0%
2c. Equipment & Vehicles for
DH and DHA                   203.0    0.0    0.0   58.2    0.0    0.0  261.2    1.7%
3. Consulting Services, UNICEF
and NGOs                     486.0  541.9  459.1  725.8  428.7  153.5 2795.0   18.6%
4. Training                     361.2  254.9   47.2   39.5   25.4    0.0  728.2   4.9%
5. Operating Costs DH & DHA     154.7  158.8  163.0  172.8  174.8  176.9 1001.0    6.7%
6. PPF Refinancing             1169.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0 1169.5    7.8%
TOTAL                          3385.8 1853.8 3416.8 2121.7 3889.9  330.4 14998.5  100.0%



Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 2
Disbursements by Semester and Source of Flnancing
(US$ Thousand)
1994       1995          1996      1997         % of
Source                  S2      Si    S2      Si    S2    S1    Total  Total
Govermment of Benin             66.9  60.5   62.5  84.0  78.9  93.6  446.4   3.0%
Communities                      13.4  34.3  251.9  84.7  385.7   0.0  770.0   5.1%
Govermnent of Denmark          672.3  556.0  982.6  617.3 1084.5  69.9 3982.7  26.6%
IDA                           2633.2 1203.1 2119.8 1335.7 2340.7  166.8 9799.4  65.3%
TOTAL                         3385.8 1853.8 3416.8 2121.7 3889.9  330.4 14998.5  100.0%
Disbursements by Semester and by Component
(USS Thousand)
1994       1995          1996      1997         % of
Conmponent                  S2     S1    S2      S1     S2    S1    Tota   Total
A. RURAL WATER SUPPLY
Civil Works                    498.2  761.2 1817.0  786.6 1914.2   0.0 5777.2  38.5%
Equipment                        0.0   0.0  250.0   0.0  388.3   0.0  638.2   4.3%
Consulting Services             24.7  230.0  164.0  390.4  236.9   0.0 1046.1    7.0%
UNICEF Services                 161.9  158.6  122.8  163.9  31.0   0.0  638.2   4.3%
Sub-total A        684.9 1149.8 2353.8 1340.9 2570.4   0.0 8099.7  54.0%
B. SUPPLY OF HANDPUMPS
Sub-total B        459.5   0.0  474.0   0.0  564.4   0.0 1497.9   10.0%
C. SANITATION
Civil Works                     63.1  137.1  206.5  338.7  394.2   0.0 1139.5   7.6%
Equipment                       76.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   76.0   0.5%
Consulting Services            216.1  131.3   16.2   16.4   0.0   16.9  396.8   2.6%
Operating Costs                 52.6  54.0  55.4   56.0  56.7  57.3  332.0   2.2%
Sub-total C        407.8  322.3  278.1  411.2  450.9  74.2 1944.4   13.0%
D. CAPACITY BUILDING
Training                       248.3  139.5  47.2   39.5  25.4   0.0  499.8   3.3%
Support to DH & SRHs           109.0  111.0  113.1  114.7  116.4  59.0  623.2   4.2%
Studies                         40.5   0.0   0.0   13.1   0.0   27.0  80.6   0.5%
Monitoring                      46.7   26.4  43.1   27.3  44.3   50.6  238.5    1.6%
Offices & Equipment             117.5   0.0   0.0   58.2   0.0   0.0  175.8   1.2%
Operating Costs                102.2  104.9  107.6  116.7  118.1  119.5  669.0   4.5%
Sub-total D        664.1  381.7  311.0  369.6  304.3  256.1 2286.9   15.2%
E. PPF REFINANCING            1169.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 1169.5   7.8%
TOTAL                         3385.8 1853.8 3416.8 2121.7 3889.9  330.4 1498.4  100.0%



Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Non-Governmental Organizations
Background
1.    During the years of the one party system in Benin, there were practically no local Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) operating in the country, as the Government considered
them to be a dangerous element of possible opposition. There were also virtually no community
associations, and in villages and urban areas neighborhoods were run by local leaders, who were
party members. There were, however, voluntary services linked to bilateral donors, such as the
Service des Volontaires N6erlandais (SVN) from Holland, the French Volontaires du Progres,
the Service de Developpement Allemand (SDA) from Germany, and the Peace Corps. There
were also religious organizations, mainly Catholic, who were active in both urban and rural
areas. International NGOS played and continue to play only a limited part in village water supply
and sanitation projects in Benin, compared with other countries in the region; their primary focus
is construction of modem wells and small earth dams. Germnan, French, Dutch and Catholic
Relief Services have put in approximately 650 wells. They undertake projects if requested by the
village communities and require a significant contribution in labor and funds (for example, CFAF
150,000 per well in the Atlantic Department.
2.    However, in 1991, multi-party presidential and legislative elections were held and a new
democratic Government was elected. This democratic revival resulted in the creation of numerous
local NGOs, both in urban and rural areas and with the encouragement now being given to
private initiatives, the numbers continue to grow. However, there appears to be no law
regulating the formation and operation of these organizations although strictly speaking all
associations are required to register with the Ministry of the Interior, Security and Territorial
Administration, a procedure which has not been followed by many of the new groups.
Consequently, it is difficult to obtain an exact estimate of how many local Beninese NGOs
currently exist, although 300 are officially registered. A Council of Non-Governmental
Organizations (CONGAB) and a National Federation of NGOs (FENONG) were created in 1988
and 1991 respectively, with the objective of coordinating the activities of the various NGOs and
facilitating their contacts with the Government. Unfortunately, however, these two bodies are
not accepted by all the NGOs, and are therefore not truly representative. Furthermore they lack
the necessary funds to be fully effective. A regional grouping, CODONG-Zou, has also been
created in the Zou Province. The Government is aware of the need to monitor and coordinate
the activities of all NGOs. To this end the Ministry of Plan is setting up a unit which will
establish a roster of NGOs and study ways to promote collaboration and partnership.
Activities
3.    Most local NGOs are constituted by groups of people sharing common interests, with the
objective of supporting development activities in their community. Some typical NGO activities
include support to natural resources management at the community level, provision of basic health
care, training and education, management of small credit and savings schemes, and support to
income-generating activities. However, the major obstacle for many of these NGOs is the lack
of training and field experience of their members and above all, lack of funds. Some of them
are fortunate enough to receive funding from the bilateral organizations mentioned above,



Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 3
multilateral organizations and religious sources, but the lack of adequate training remains a
serious problem. It is for this reason that the training of the NGOs selected to participate in this
project is one of its primary objectives and the services of an international NGO specialized in
training, Helvetas, will be enlisted to this end.
Identification of potential partners
4.    An extensive survey of the NGOs identified as currently active in the rural areas of the
Zou and Atlantic provinces was carried out during the preappraisal and appraisal and field visits
were made to meet their staff, observe and evaluate their working methods and achievements in
some of the villages they serve, discuss with themn their needs and difficulties, and assess their
suitability for inclusion in the project. Some of them were found to be only marginally active,
usually because the staff serve on a volunteer basis due to lack of funds, and because of a lack
of equipment. However, in the case of active NGOs, even with volunteer staff, the high level
of commitment was often most impressive. In one instance, because of lack of transport, the
volunteers from an NGO dispensing primary health care in the Zou regularly walk over 10 km.
in each direction to reach the villages they serve. In the case of the religious organizations, who
have been active in the rural areas for over 10 years, the staff have all already had some training
in participatory methods such as GRAAP (Research Group for Support to Rural Self-Promotion -
-Groupe de recherche et d'appui pour l'auto-promotion paysanne) and CESAO (West Africa
Center of Social and Economiz Studies-Centre d'6tudes economiques et sociales de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest). Over the years they have put in place a substantial network of trained village
counterparts, which will prove to be of considerable help in carrying out the information and
training program in many of the villages. It was found that even when an NGO has sufficient
unding to pay its staff, the stipends paid are very low. The project is therefore being designed
in such a way that it does not distort the basis of remuneration, but will rather provide training
and material assistance for equipment.
Prequalification Criteria
5.    Following this survey a short-list was drawn up and those NGOs selected were visited
again, and a detailed evaluation made of each. The criteria used for their selection for inclusion
in the project were the following:
a)    they should have at least two years experience in the preparation
and implementation of commnunity development projects;
b)    they should have proficiency in budget management, or show
potential capability for such management;
c)    they should have demonstrated technology transfer capacity to
rural communities;
d)    they should enjoy the confidence of the communities they serve.
6.    From this short-list three NGOs were selected in the Atlantic Department (Geercop,
OCPSP and Foyer de Nazareth), currently covering between them a total of 117 villages. In the
Zou Departnent four NGOs were selected (ALDIPE, CBDIBA, AFPF and Survie de la mere et
de l'enfant), but it will be necessary to identify another two for the northern part of the
Department.



Annex 2-3
Pae 3 of 3
7.    In addition, the project may also draw on the experience accumulated by the Peace Corps
which supported the USAID-financed/UNICEF-executed water and sanitation project in the Zou
Department. The Peace Corps currently has over 20 volunteers working on the eradication of
Guinea worm in the Zou and Atlantic departments as well as on community development projects
in general, and an agreement was reached with the Peace Corps Director in Cotonou that these
volunteers would be made available to the project. They are currently in the process of setting
up a network of counterparts in the villages they cover, and this network could be used to spread
the word about the new water strategy and the objectives of the project.






Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Implementation Program
This annex details the implementation program provided in the draft Project Document discussed
with DH in November 1993.
Programme de r6alisation
1.    Compte tenu du caractere innovateur de l'approche retenue, I'assistance a la
d6centralisation du secteur de l'eau et de l'assainissement en zone rurale comprendra deux etapes
distinctes. Dans une premiere etape la strat6gie sera test6e et mise en oeuvre dans deux
departements, puis g6n6ralisee apres validation dans une seconde 6tape a l'ensemble du pays.
A. PHASAGE
2.    C'est le financement de la premiere 6tape qui fait l'objet du pr6sent projet. Ce dernier
se d6composera en quatre phases distinctes:
Phase 1
3.    L' objectif de cette premniere phase est de cr6er l'enviromement favorable a une reelle
implication des populations dans un processus de communication pour qu'elles puissent presenter
des demandes de points d'eau en toute connaissance de cause. Le contenu de l'information a
fournir par le projet et les modalit6s de sa diffusion seront arret6s. II s'agira d'une phase de
conception et de preparation. Cette phase durera environ un an et mettra en place les conditions
indispensables au demarrage de l'ex6cution des points d'eau et de la composante assainissement:
(a)    L'assistance technique (AT) et les agents de la DH 6tabliront un 6ch6ancier
d6taille des activites a mener pour lancer la phase 2 (execution). Ils choisiront
ensemble les approches a adopter pour assurer, des le demarrage du projet, une
participation de toutes les personnes concernees.
(b)    Les agents de la DH et des SRHs et les differents partenaires du secteur eau
potable et assainissement seront informes sur la nouvelle approche de la
planification des systemes d'AEPA au cours de seminaires et de rEunions
diverses. On developpera egalement une strategie d'information continue de tous
les intervenants du secteur.
(c)    On mettra en place les agents necessaires au bon deroulement du projet tant au
sein de la DH que dans les SRHs. Des interviews permettront de selectionner les
agents les plus motives. Au cas oi l'Administration ne pourrait pas mettre a la
disposition du projet toutes les ressources humaines indispensables, du personnel
contractuel sera embauch6 pour la duree du projet.
(d)    On d6finira les taches A r6aliser par les partenaires priv6s. On preparera les
termes de r6ferences des ONG et des consultants locaux (bureaux d'6tudes). On
identifiera les acteurs du projet: les ONG, le distributeur de pompes, les bureaux
d'6tudes locaux, les entreprises, et les acteurs prives-relais de communication.



Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 9
On s6lectionnera parmi eux les partenaires principaux du projet: au cours de
reunions on fixera avec eux les criteres de selection de ceux qui auront
directement A collaborer avec le projet, ainsi que les cahiers des charges de
chacun.
(e)    On 6tablira des nonnes techniques pour la conception et la realisation des
differents ouvrages. Chaque composante des solutions proposees aux
communaut6s devra etre identifiee, normalis&e et chiffr6e de maniere a permettre
un choix optimum.
(f)    On elaborera des programmes de formation en fonction des besoins identifi6s.
Au cours de la phase 1, ce sont essentiellement la DH, les SRHs et les ONG, les
acteurs prives-relais de conmnunication qui beneficieront d'une formation.
4.     L'UNICEF envisage un nouveau programme d'intervention dans le Zou dans le cadre de
I'eradication du ver de Guin6e. La composante hydraulique villageoise comprend la r6alisation
de 200 nouveaux forages. La composante assainissement comprend essentiellement la construction
de latrines adaptees pour les menages, les ecoles et les centres de sante ainsi que l'education
sanitaire. Les ressources financieres et humaines de l'UNICEF sont limitees. L'UNICEF
d6sirerait cependant collaborer avec DANIDA et l'IDA pour appuyer le programme d'hydraulique
villageoise du gouvernement en poursuivant ses activit6s dans le d6partement du Zou. Le schema
propos6 A l'UNICEF par l'IDA et DANIDA pour (i) permettre d'atteindre rapidement l'objectif
de desengagement de l'Etat des activit6s de construction et (ii) apporter a l'UNICEF les moyens
de r6aliser de nouveaux points d'eau est le suivant:
(a)    Des fonds seraient mis A la disposition de la DH pour financer environ 200
forages positifs A realiser A l'entreprise en deux ans;
(b)    I'UNICEF agirait en tant que maitre d'oeuvre, assurant la gestion des march6s
et le contr6le des travaux;
(c)    elle serait r6muneree en consequence;
(d)    les march6s seraient pass6s par petits lots de 30 A 40 forages;
(e)    les activit6s de r6gie seraient abandonn6es des que le financement serait
disponible (les sondeuses etant soit vendues, soit transf6rees hors du Benin);
(f)    le personnel sp6cialis6 de l'UNICEF serait utilise egalement par le projet pour
former et assister les entreprises locales dans la gestion technique et financiere
de leur contrat d'ex6cution de travaux.
5.     En appliquant la nouvelle strategie pour le secteur de l'eau potable et de l'assainissement
en milieu rural (Declaration de Lokossa) l'UNICEF participera aux activit6s de conception et de
pr6paration de la phase 1 pour le Zou.
6.     Pour r6aliser la composante assainissement, on utilisera 6galement le plus possible les
comp6tences des ONG et du secteur priv6 pour stimuler la demande et am6liorer les services et
leur qualite. Les 61ements cles seront les suivants:
- -_ - - - -



A     3-1
Page 3 of 9
(a)    s6lection/identification des ouvrages d'assainissement qui pourraimet ere
construits dans les deux d6partements en fonction de Iur costs et de leur
ad6quation; pr6paration des materiels didactiques; identification des artisans et
PME et fonnation de ceux-ci a la construction, a la selection et I la promotion
des ouvrages (y compris la mise a jour des mat6riels didactiques);
(b)    d6vedoppement d'outils appropri6s pour le "marketing" et la promotion des
services d'assainissement.
(c)    61aboration/adaptation des materiels didactiques pour I'6ducation sanitairo do la
population, dans les ecoles et centres de sant6; formation des enseignanus et des
ONG/priv6s qui interviendront au niveau de la population (le groupe des
ONGlprives en cours d'identification par le DH et le GREA sera ausi
responsable de l'education sanitaire);
(d)    d6veloppement d'outils/indicateurs pour le suivi interne et le suivi externe des
activit6s;
(e)   formation/visites aux autres projets.
Phase 2
7.    Cette phase correspondra & l'ex6cutlon des ouvrage de la premiere 6tape de l'appui i
la d6centralisation du secteur. Elle comprendra l'identification des projets des conwumautEs et
leur r6alisation dans le cadre d'un programme d'op6rations. Cette phase durera environ deux ans
et demi.
8.    D'apres l'approche retenue pour cette premiere etape, on peut pr6voir que cette phae
d'exEcution suivra le sch6ma suivant:
(a)    Prise de contact avec les communautes:
(i)     Campagne d'information;
(ii)     Recolte des demandes.
(b)    Assistance aux communaut6s pour la classification de Iurs baoins prioritahos:
(i)     Identification des besoins en gen6ral;
(ii)     Hierarchisation de ces besoins;
(iii)     Formulation d'une demande de point d'eau si cela correspond i
l'un des besoins & satisfaire en priorite;
(iv)     Pr6sentation de la demande au SRH de la r6gion.
(c)    Etude de la demande effective et choix des populations des zones conceSnns en
matiere d'alimentation en eau potable:
(i)     REception par lea SRHs des demandes des  mm enaub;
(ii)     Analyse par lea SRHs des demandes regues en fonction des
donn6es a disposition;



Annex 3-1
Page 4 of 9
(iii)     Evaluation, par les ONG charg6es de l'animation, des indicateurs
de motivation r6elle;
(iv)      Proposition par les SRHs et les ONG, A chaque village, d'un
choix de solutions effectivement L6alisables;
(v)      Choix avec la communaut6 concernee, de la solution la plus
adapt6e i ses possibilites: ceci constitue le projet individuel de la
communaut6.
(d)    Realisation des travaux:
(i)      Comme pr6alable: Participation financi6re effective;
(ii)      Programmation par la DH et les SRHs des travaux de projets
communautaires pour la r6alisation de points d'eau par groupes
d'operations coh6rentes et accessibles au secteur prive beninois;
(iii)     Lancement des Appels d'Offres (AO) et attribution des march6s;
(iv)      Travaux, installation des moyens d'exhaure et mise en service
des postes d'eau autonomes et des mini-adductions
(conventionnels ou solaires);
(v)      Actions de consolidation pour aboutir, A court terme, a une reelle
prise en charge des installations par les usagers.
9.    Par rapport aux projets ant6rieurs, une plus grande partie des travaux devra 6tre confi6e
au niveau des villages afin de deplacer un maximum d'activites le plus pres possible des
utilisateurs et favoriser ainsi un veritable attrait economique pour les ouvrages A p6renniser. Les
travaux suivants devraient 6tre attribu6s en petits lots au niveau local:
(a)    Les captages de sources;
(b)    les citernes;
(c)    les superstructures de forages;
(d)    les plates-formes de puits;
(e)    la distribution, l'installation et la maintenance des pompes A motricit6 humaine;
(f)    la partie maconnerie et la maintenance des postes d'eau autonomes (PEA) et des
r6seaux simplifi6s (RS);
(g)    les ouvrages d'assainissement.
10.    Des regroupements d'ouvriers par corps de m6tiers, ou meme des PME, devront etre
favorises dans chacun des deux d6partements. L'6mergence d'un r6el potentiel local de
professionnels du secteur est l'objectif A moyen terme de tout projet de d6veloppement et celle-ci
devra se r6aliser autour des artisans r6parateurs, des distributeurs de pieces d6tach6es, des
vendeurs de cixnent et des entrepreneurs actifs et install6s dans la r6gion. Des institutions, comme
le CEPEPE, pourraient apporter une aide A la mise en place, A la formation et A l'appui en phase
de d6marrage de ces groupements ou PME. Le projet pr6voit un soutien A la gestion de ces
petites entreprises locales impliqu6es dans le processus de concr6tisation des infrastructures. Une
aide sera 6galement apport6e pour la mise a niveau des ouvriers des diff6rents corps de m6tier



Annex 3-1
Page 5 of 9
pour qu'ils puissent realiser dans de bonnes conditions les ouvrages envisages. Le recyclage des
artisans r6parateurs sera assure par les attributaires des marches de pompes.
Phase 3
11.   II s'agira d'une phase d'evaluation et de validation. Elle permettra la revue exhaustive
et l'audit operationnel de la phase d'ex6cution. Des enquetes seront menees aupres des usagers
afin d'evaluer les v6ritables r6percussions de la phase d'execution sur l'amelioration de la desserte
en eau potable et de I'assainissement au niveau des communautes villageoises. Ces enquetes
devront deboucher sur des recommandations pour les futurs projets et la diffusion de cette
information aupres des intervenants du secteur.
Phase 4
12.   Cette phase, basee sur les enseignements des phases 2 et 3, correspondra a la pr6paration
de la deuxidne tranche de l'appui a la decentralisation du secteur. Un projet sera prepare pour
reproduire l'experience de la preni-re etape a l'echelle nationale et qui verra l'execution de
points d'eau modernes et de mesures d'assainissement simultanement dans l'ensemble des
departements.
B. CHRONOGRAMME PRtVISIONNEL
13.   II est prevu que cette premiere etape pour la realisation du projet de d6centralisation du
secteur se d6roulera sur quatre ans (aout 1993 a juillet 1997).
Phase 1:
(Aofit 1993 t juillet 1994: 12 mois)
14.    Le chronogranune previsionnel de la phase 1 est present6 ci-apres. Entre la distribution
du Draft du Document de Projet aux interesses (mi-aoat 1993) et la mission d'evaluation de la
Banque Mondiale (novembre 1993):
(a)    on a realise une etude environnementale;
(b)    on a etabli le diagnostic de l'etat r6el des ouvrages d'assainissement dans les
ecoles et centres de sante en milieu rural;
(c)    et on a mis en place l'assistance technique (AT).
15.    La mission d'evaluation a inclus un seminaire pour expliquer les objectifs de la mise en
oeuvre de la strategie du secteur et presenter les grands principes d'application contenus dans le
Document de Projet. Ce s6minaire a regroupe les cadres de la DH et des SRHs ainsi que des
representants des agences exterieures de soutien, des organismes nationaux ou r6gionaux, des
ONG, des fournisseurs de materiaux, des bureaux d'etudes locaux et des entreprises de la place.
16.    L'equipe du projet est mise en place apres la mission d'6valuation tant au niveau central
qu'au niveau des SRHs. On rassemblera les donn6es existantes pour mettre en place un systeme
de gestion de l'information au siege des SRHs concern6es de maniere a d6centraliser les
connaissances acquises aupres de leurs utilisateurs directs. On profitera 6galement du demarrage



Annex 3-1
Page 6 of 9
de cette activite pour initier le processus de mobilisation des communautes afin de les associer
des le d6but A la pr6paration de la phase d'execution de leurs propres projets communautaires.
17.    Une ONG  internationale (Helvetas) realisera une etude de volonte a payer des
b6n6ficiaires potentiels des deux departements concernes (5 semaines): cette etude conceme aussi
bien la composante eau potable que l'assainissement.
18.    Le manque de cadre institutionnel pour definir, non seulement est responsabilit6s de tout
un chacun, mais aussi la propriete finale des equipements install6s, a affecte la performance des
precedents projets. En passant du concept de "population cible" A celui de "demande des
populations" il faut pouvoir offrir aux partenaires du projet un veritable processus d'appropriation
des investissements. Le cadre institutionnel devra etre defini avant la mise en pratique des
programmes de formation (avant avril 1994).
19.    Dans I'attente de la signature de l'accord definitif du financement de ce projet (prevue
pour juillet 1994), les ONG partenaires seront identifiees et les entreprises et bureaux d'etudes
locaux seront prequalifies. Des contrats types et des appels d'offres standards seront prepares
pour pouvoir (i) commencer les actions d'animation dans les meilleurs delais et (ii) lancer les
consultations necessaires des la programmation des travaux prevue dans la phase 2 (fevrier 1995).
20.    Le pilier central de la mise en oeuvre de la strategie sera le developpement des ressources
humaines. II s'agit de jeter les bases d'une approche decentralisee de ce secteur et d'assurer son
d6veloppement A long terme. Au moins six mois (fevrier a juillet 1994), sur les douze que
comptent la phase 1, seront necessaires pour mettre en route le processus. Le projet devra tout
d'abord concevoir un programme de formation et elaborer le materiel didactique necessaire. Le
developpement des ressources humaines concernera (i) le personnel des ONG (des avril 1994),
(ii) les distributeurs de pompes apres leur identification et leur organisation (mai 1994), et les
groupements d'ouvriers par corps de metiers (mai A juillet 1994). Par corps de metier, on entend:
(a)    les artisans reparateurs (pompes, reseaux, groupes electrogenes, ..);
(b)    les puisatiers;
(c)    les magons (superstructures pompes, plates-formes puits, citemes, ...);
(d)    les poseurs de tuyaux (mini-adductions);
(e)    et les electriciens (energie thermique ou solaire).
21.   II convient de souligner qu'il ne s'agit que d'une mise en route du processus de
d6veloppement des ressources humaines et que ce volet du projet se poursuivra, lors de la phase
d'ex6cution, par des stages pratiques au sein des entreprises prequalifiees entrecoupes de sessions
de formations theoriques.
22.    En fm de phase 1, il faudra avoir concu un message clair et concis pour informer les
populations des regions concernees sur les possibilites qu'offrent le projet de mise en oeuvre de
la nouvelle strategie. Les populations contribueront directement A la conception de ce message.
L'etude de volonte A payer constituera un maillon indispensable A cette demarche inter-active.



Annex 3-1
Page 7 of 9
23.   C'est egalement pendant cette phase de conception et de preparation que l'on pr6cisera
la maniere dont les beneficiaires pourront ameliorer leur cadre de vie par des mesures
d'assainissement.
24.   Parallelement a cette phase de conception et de preparation, on lancera la composante
pompes a motricite humaine (fourniture, distribution et maintenance).
Phase 2:
(Aofit 1994 d janvier 1997: 30 mois)
On prevoit la signature de la convention de financement vers mi-juillet 1994.
25.   Au niveau des communautes, la phase d'execution commencera par une campagne
d'information de 5 mois. DMs octobre 1994, on espere recolter les premieres demandes des
villages. Celles-ci seront pr6sent6es aux SRHs qui devront organiser les activites des ONG pour
repondre rapidement aux sollicitations.
26.   Le travail des ONG coninencera, au niveau de chaque communaute, par la classification
de leurs besoins prioritaires (mi-octobre 1994).  Une fois que le besoin en eau et en
assainissement aura 6t6 identifie comme le besoin prioritaire pour la communaute, l'ONG qui
aura ete contractuellement choisie pour assister cette communaute devra etudier la demande sous
divers aspects (motivation, capacites organisationnelles, ressources financieres, ...).
27.   En attendant de trouver un meilleur indicateur d'adh6sion des communaut6s aux principes
et aux objectifs du projet, la participation financiere effective permettra de retenir, pour la
programmation des travaux, celles qui auront rempli leurs engagements. Les capacites financieres
du monde rural semblent etre maximales entre decembre et fevrier de chaque annee. La
participation des communautes au financement de leur propre projet devrait donc etre r6colt6e
lors de cette periode. C'est donc en fevrier et en mars de l'annee correspondante que l'on pourra
programmer les travaux.
28.   Les travaux seront repartis sur deux camnpagnes: de juillet a decembre 1995 et de juin
1996 a janvier 1997. A partir du traitement des demandes directement formulees par les
communaut6s rurales, on selectionnera en fevrier 1995 et 1996 au total 200 sites par departement
qui feront l'objet d'une etude de faisabilite sociale, economique et technique . On pr6voit
qu'environ 160 sites (80%) s6lectionnes par departement pourront techniquement beneficier d'au
moins un type de point d'eau modeme.
29.   L'animation sur le terrain se poursuivra, au niveau de chaque communaut6, par des
actions d'appuis a l'organisation au fur et a mesure de la realisation des travaux. II faudra prevoir
egalement des actions de consolidation pour renforcer les interventions de l'animation des la mise
en service des ouvrages (juillet 1995) et poursuivre le processus de d6veloppement des ressources
humaines. Cette operation, qui devra se developper au deli de la phase 2 (janvier 1997) reste
delicate, mais essentielle pour installer les structures villageoises de gestion dans leurs nouvelles
fonctions et les aider a resoudre les inevitables problemes en phase de demarrage et faciliter leur
perennisation en rapprochant les prestataires de services et de travaux des utilisateurs.
30.   On prevoit que les premiers appels d'offres pour la realisation des programnmes
d'operations seront lances fm fevrier 1995. Entre le lancement de l'AO et l'attribution des
marches on prevoit 60 a 90 jours. Les entreprises choisies auront alors 30 jours pour



Annex 3-1
Page 8 of 9
commencer leurs travaux respectifs (mobilisation).
31.    Les actions des bureaux d'etudes locaux commenceront avec l'implantation des ouvrages
(forages, puits, captages de sources). Pour la premiere campagne de travaux, on prevoit
d'implanter une vingtaine de sites par mois de mi-juin A octobre 1995. Les travaux
correspondants seront contr6les de juin A d6cembre 1995. Dans le cas od les difficult6s techniques
depassent les competences de l'ONG, des consultants locaux pourront intervenir pour fournir une
assistance dans l'etude de faisabilite du projet de la communaute (surtout dans les cas de
demandes de reseaux).
32.    Les travaux relatifs A deux lots de 30 a 40 forages positifs chacun demarreront en juin
1995. La premiere camnpagne de travaux verrait ainsi la realisation de 70 forages au rythme de
7 forages par mois et par foreuse. La deuxieme campagne pourrait s'etendre de mai a novembre
1996 et voir la realisation de 90 forages positifs au meme rythme (2 lots de 45) ou etre plus
courte avec la repartition du travail en trois lots de 30 forages. La rehabilitation des forages sera
conduite en parallele.
33.    Les travaux de foncage des puits modernes demarreront A fin juin 1995. Le rythme prevu
par equipe de puisatiers est de 1 puits fonce mecaniquement par mois dans le Zou et de 1 puits
par trois mois dans l'Atlantique. Pour r6aliser les 20 puits modernes pr6vus se repartissant A parts
egales dans les deux regions, il faudra compter sur deux campagnes de six mois chacune. Notons
que ce choix permettra de poursuivre la formation th6orique (entre les campagnes) et pratique
(pendant les campagnes) des puisatiers. Ces derniers devront avoir acquis assez d'experience au
cours de ce projet pour intervenir en tant que formateurs de puisatiers dans les futurs projets et
notamment pour la deuxieme tranche de mise en oeuvre nationale de la nouvelle strategie.
34.    La realisation des travaux d'amelioration de puits traditionnels, de captages de sources,
de r6alisation de citernes, de superstructures de pompes, de plates-formes de puits et de mini-
adductions debutera en juillet 1995 et se repartira egalement en deux campagnes. Au fur et A
mesure de l'avancement des travaux, les pompes A motricite humaine seront installees et les
systemes de distribution seront mis en service. Ces operations concluront la phase 2 en janvier
1997.
35.    La realisation des mini-adductions et la mise en service d'installations de pompages
thermiques ou solaires necessitent un certain nombres de prealables. II faut en effet identifier les
sites qui pourront etre techniquement equipes, concevoir des r6seaux simplifies adaptes au
contexte du village, lancer des appels d'offres et realiser les travaux de genie civil avant
d'installer un groupe electrogene ou de fixer des panneaux solaires. Nous avons prevu pour cette
premiere etape une dizaine d'installations (3 postes d'eau autonomes et 2 reseaux simplifies par
region), necessitant un total de douze mois de travaux repartis entre 1995 et 1996. Les premieres
mises en service pourraient intervenir vers fin 1995.
36.    On devra adapter le rythme d'execution de la phase 2 aux realites villageoises identifi6es
lors de la phase 1. Ainsi, pour chaque departement, on ne passera des contrats avec les structures
chargees de l'animation/sensibilisation que lorsque l'on aura selectionne un nombre suffisant de
demandes de villages ayant repondu aux conditions de base du projet. Les villages devront avoir
rempli leurs obligations morales et financieres avant d'etre retenus pour la programmation des
travaux. Dans le cas oi le nombre de villages ayant repondu A nos criteres est largement inferieur
a 100 A fm janvier 1995, le volume des programmes d'op6rations sera revu a la baisse et les
travaux de r6alisation des projets communautaires seront attribues en plus petits marches. Par



Annex 3-1
Page 9 of 9
cette m6thodologie, on confirmera que l'accent doit etre mis sur 1'6tude de la demande et le
respect des choix des communaut6s concern6es et non sur l'aspect technique de la realisation et
la planification centralis6e.
Phases 3 et 4:
(Fevrier i juillet 1997: 6 mois)
37.   L'evaluation de cette premiere 6tape, la validation de la mise en oeuvre de la nouvelle
strat6gie et la pr6paration d'un projet pour 1'ensemble du territoire b6ninois seront conduites de
f6vrier a juillet 1997.






Annex 3-2
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - PHASE I
1993                                                        1994
ID    Name                                                       A             SO     N    D  J  M      A   MI JIJ   A    S|O
I   DESION AND PREPARATION                               __._                   _
2        Projed Docmet
3        Envirlomnal Asseene
4        Set up Tedinical Aaistmnce
5        DH Saminar                                                              a
6        Apaml Misicn
7        willin   to pay Studs
I        Set up Project Team
9        Collection Exiding Data                                                           -
10       Tedcnical Standlard
11       Maitana S
12        Iiot    al/Le  Framework
13       A     nzFinawid Procedures
14        PeuaiScation local conactr
15      Sgtand Bidding Doumnt 
16                                                                                               I
17   HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
111      Design of Trining Proam 
19       Trining Mateial
20        Traning DH/SRH_
21        Trn NOOs
22        Traing Pump Distrilbutors
23        Trining Contactr Staff
24        Trining atWisam ell diggen
25       Infwmstion Campaig
26
27   PUMP SALES NETWORK                                                                                 M
28       Idetificat  Pump Sellrs                                                                 I 
29        Orgization Sales Network.
30
31   SANITATION / HYGIENE EDUCATION
32        Set up Projed Teams
33       Infomation Campaign
34       Training Materias
35        Maketing Tools
36        Training Mason
37        Trining NOOs
31        Propam Schools I Health Centers
Critical                            Milestone   *
Project: Eau Assainissemcnt Bin         Noncritical                         Summary
Date: 3/2/94
Progress                           Rolled Up



Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBUC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - PHASE n
19L                        196                         197
ID  Nam                                              JASONDJFMA MJ|JlAFSTOND J|F|M|AMJJASONIDJFA33
1    COMMJNllY LEVEL                                _              _
2        Ionatio Capaig
3        Recriving Applications
4        Idutfication of Pri_ritie
5        Demln St*d                                           -
6        Financial Pailicipaion                                 _
9        ProWamming Wotk s
12        Conlidation Acdivitie
15        Evaluation & P eptio Fdobp_
16
17   SUPERVISION                                                                                                        I
19        RFP 1"5
19        RFP 1996
20        CoatactSignmg 195
21        Coadact Siging 196*
22        Wells & Borehoks Siting
25        Supiaio Drlling                                                           -
28        Supavison Cistasi & Springs-                                                        
3 1                    -uaito Wel
34  T     SuperiltcnPiped Syt
37
38   DRILING CONTRACTS                                                e
39        L inh  Bgiddng I"S 
40        Launch Biding 1996
5641  CL       ud signing 195
42        coac Siging 1996
43        Mobiliao                                                               
46        Well oR_h_ .tion
49        Now Bterbole_
52
53 WELLS
54        Launch Bidding 1995
55       LAunch Bidding 1996
56        Conac Signing 1995
57        Coact Signing 1996
50        Mobiliztion                                                          _                          _
61        Wup CIntaltion
64
65   OTHER WORICS..
66        LAunch Bidding 1995 
67        LmniBddinig 1996 
68        ConwSiping 1"5 
69        Ctct Siping 1996 
70        Mobliz                                                              _ 
7            int Cdchmws  Cit 
76        Sup_vwW   Wells ABh 8
79        Piped Sy-
n2        pump how ion 
j     5   jCOMMISSIONINO__



Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Manual: Table of Contents
CHAPITRE I:   DESCRIPTION DU PROJET
1-1. Lettre de politique sectorielle
1-2. Objectifs
1-3. Alimentation en eau potable
1-4. Assainissement et education sanitaire
1-5. Cofits estimatifs
1-6. Plan de financement
1-7. Principales conditions
CHAPITRE II:  CONDITIONS DE REALISATION
2-1. Programme previsionnel
2-2. Chronogramme previsionnel
2-3. Organisation institutionnelle
2-4. Formation
2-5. Mobilisation des communautes
2-6. Recouvrement des cofits
2-7. Execution des travaux
2-8. Gestion et entretien des points d'eau
CHAPITRE III:  ACQUISITION DES BIENS ET DES SERVICES
3-1. Pompes a motricite humaine
3-2. Systemes thermiques et solaires
3-3. Puits, captages de sources et citernes
3-4. Forages et essais de pompage
3-5. Superstructures et pose de pompes
3-6. Latrines
3-7. Developpement communautaire (ONGs)
3-8. Bureaux d'6tudes
3-9. Structures d'appui
CHAPITRE IV:  DECAISSEMENTS
4-1. Categories de decaissement et reallocations
4-2. Compte special
4-3. Comptes de projet
4-4. Circuits des paiements
4-5. Retrait des fonds du credit IDA et du don DANIDA
4-6. Fonds de contrepartie
CHAPITRE V:   COMPTABILITE ET AUDITS
5-1. Procedures comptables
5-2. Procedures budgetaires
5-3. Suivi des marches
5-4. Termes de reference des auditeurs



Ane 3-3
Page 2 of 2
CHAPITRE VI: SUIVI ET EVALUATION
6-1. Planning de supervision IDA/GREA
6-2. Audits techniques
6-3. Supervision interne
64. Revue A mi-parcours
ANNEXES
1. Cycle du projet au niveau des communaut6s
2. Choix techniques offerts aux comniunaut6s
3. Programmes de formation
4. Modalit6s de participation du secteur priv6
5. D6tail des coats estimatifs
6. TdR assistance technique
7. TdR ONG internationale
8. TdR ONG locales
9. TdR Bureaux d'6tudes
10. Documents d'appel d'offres pompes
11. Documents d'appel d'offres forages
12. Documents d'appel d'offres petits travaux
13. Documents d'appel d'offres 6quipements
14. Documents lAPSO
15. Modele contrat bureaux d'etudes
16. Modele contrat ONG
17. Lettre de d6caissement



Annex 34
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Sanitation Component
A. DESCRIPTION
Background
1.    The IDWSSD targets set by Benin for improving of sanitation services were not met.
Little progress was made in improving the quality and quantity of services for the urban as well
as the rural poor. As follow-up to the National RWS Strategy, the Ministry of Health embarked
upon the preparation of a national sanitation policy and strategy paper with the help of the
UNDP/WB Water and Sanitation Program (RWSG-WA). The key principles on which this
strategy is based include: decentralization of the decision making process; clear definition of
institutional roles; participation of the community in funding investment costs as well as
responsibility for O&M costs; promotion of lower cost applicable technologies; privatization of
construction, service delivery, marketing, promotion and sensitization activities and; mobilization
of communities to increase their demand for improved services. These principles are the same
as those developed by the National Strategy for Improvement of RWS Services.
2.    The key ministry involved in on-site sanitation development and hygiene education in
Benin is the Ministry of Health. The Ministry's Directorate of Hygiene and Sanitation (Direction
de l'Hygiene et de l'Assainissement) which works in this area is staffed by sanitary engineers,
higher level technicians and hygiene agents (public health inspectors). Its professionals are based
either in Cotonou or in the Ministry's Regional Directorates of Health. The ministry is currently
involved in planning, regulatory, policy making and implementation activities and depends on
project funds for the majority of the implementation activities. Another Ministry with an interest
in the sanitation sub-sector is the recently (July 1991) created Ministry of Environment, Housing
and Urban Planning. Its key department for sanitation activities is the Urban Planning and
Sanitation Directorate which is currently involved in drainage, urban planning and general
sanitation activities.
3.    The Ministry of Health has been actively involved in the development of two codes which
form the basis for current practice in the sector (although regulations required to enforce the
codes do not yet exist). These are the Public Hygiene and Water Codes both issued in 1987.
The Public Hygiene Code covers public places, housing and eating establishments, markets, water
use, general environmental sanitation, pest control etc.
4.    Several donors (UNICEF, USAID, UNDP, GTZ, KfW, WHO) have been involved in
the sanitation sub-sector in recent years. A UNICEF/USAID project was implemented in Zou
as part of the program for the eradication of Guinea Worm. Valuable experience was developed
in construction of facilities for households, schools and health centers, training, and hygiene
education.
5.    The RWS Project will initially be executed in the provinces of Zou and Atlantique and
will begin small, focussing on training, promotion, and sensitization activities, and introducing
greater participation of the private sector in drilling, construction and operation of a maintenance
system in a number of sub-prefectures in the two provinces. The sanitation component



Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 6
(Promotion of On-Site Facilities) of this Project will focus on increasing demand of the rural
population for improved services. This component will be implemented by the Ministry of
Health.
Objectives
6.     The overall objectives of this component are to contribute to improvements in the health
of rural populations and to the quality of the rural environment through better management and
delivery of sanitation services. Specific objectives are:
(a)   to increase the demand for improved sanitation services through extensive
marketing and promotion campaigns;
(b)   to have trained masons (and small enterprises) who can construct and promote
on-site sanitation systems for households, communities, schools and health
centers;
(c)   to improve the environmental sanitation conditions and hygiene practices in
schools and health centers and;
(d)   to improve the environmental sanitation and hygiene practices of rural households
and communities through integration of appropriate messages and activities in the
community mobilization process for the water supply program.
Promotion of On-Site Facilities
7.     The component comprises four interlinked sub-components addressing the specific
objectives listed above. Key elements are hygiene education/promotion, training and marketing.
(a)    The first sub-component is the development and dissemination of marketing and
Dromotion tools. This will involve assistance of a marketing specialist in the
identification of appropriate multi-media and preparation of appropriate tools for
"selling" sanitation. Materials already existing for promotion of improved
sanitation services will also be assessed and incorporated into the marketing and
promotion process.
(b)    The second is the development of appropriate training materials for private
masons and training them to construct and market a range of latrines.
(c)    There will also be systematic construction of latrines in schools and health
centers which do not already have functioning ones.  Integrated in this
construction program will be the provision of water points (roof catchunent), and
development, dissemination and use of training materials on hygiene education
and on the proper management of these latrines.
(d)    The final sub-component will involve integration of messages (about improved
management of sanitation facilities, hygiene and maintaining a clean physical
community environment) into the mobilization and training activities for delivery
of improved water supply facilities to the target communities.



Annex 34
Page 3 of 6
B. IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
8.    Implementation of the sanitation component of the RWS program will be based on a drive
to increase demand for improved sanitation services/facilities, maximizing the participation of
communities, individual households and the private sector and transforming the public sector into
a promoter/planner rather than a provider of services. The schools and health center sub-
component will build on the UNICEF program of latrine construction/hygiene education/water
point construction, which was implemented in Zou. It will complete coverage in all primary
schools in the two regions which are not currently served.
Institutional Arrangements
9.    The executing agency for the component will be the Ministry of Water (Water
Directorate) which is the executing agency for the RWS Program  as a whole.  The
implementation of the component will be integrated into that of the RWS Program. The lead
responsibility for delivery of the component will however belong to the Directorate of Hygiene
and Sanitation (DHA) which will coordinate/program all the sanitation related activities in close
collaboration with the executing agency. The directorate will have a budget for implementation
of the component and a clearly defined work program (which will be integrated into the one for
the whole RWS Program). The Water Directorate will disburse the funds needed by the DHA
for implementation of the various sanitation activities and the Directorate of Hygiene and
Sanitation will assure their proper use.
10.   The proposed institutional arrangements for implementation of the sanitation component
are based on the recommendations being developed in the National Sanitation Policy and Strategy
Paper which is currently under preparation. The strategy calls for, among other things, support
to the decentralization process and clear definition of the roles of all actors (Annex I includes job
descriptions for the directorate staff to be involved in implementation of the component). The
proposed organization/arrangements for the component are as follows:
(a)    Community Level - NGOs and private extension workers and private artisans will
be responsible for promotion, marketing, hygiene education, and construction of
facilities for households and communities on a demand driven basis.
(b)    Regional Level - there will be a team of three regional staff based in the regional
medical department (DDS). They will form (or be part of) a unit comprising the
following skill mix: unit head/planner, promoter/trainer for on-site facilities, and
promoter/trainer for hygiene education and promotion activities). This team will
work closely with the SRH (Regional Water Directorate Unit) teams. It will plan
and monitor activities, market and promote services, and participate in the
preparation of training of materials and in the training of private artisan/extension
agents/NGOs/teachers who will be responsible for construction, training and
promotion activities with the communities. The teams at the regional will require
training and skill enhancement in various areas. This need will be addressed as
part of the RWS Program's training strategy.
(c)    National Level - there will be a coordinator at national level who will work with
the Water Directorate in developing, supervising, and monitoring Program
activities. The coordinator will also supervise the regionally based staff. The



Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 6
coordinator's skill enhancement needs will also be met through the RWS
Program's training strategy.
(d)    Consultants, international NGO, training establishments, technical experts,
marketing and promotion specialists, training specialists etc. will provide
necessary periodic assistance to the teams in implementation/management of the
work program.
Donor Collaboration
11.   UNICEF is currently preparing a program of support to Benin to be conducted in Zou
province. The major elements of the sanitation component of the proposed UNICEF program
are to construct appropriate latrines in households, schools, health centers and to train artisans.
Their strategy is to integrate sanitation into water supply and hygiene education activities. Since
UNICEF has limited funds to fully implement their sanitation component, it is proposed to
integrate it into the RWS Program's sanitation component. UNICEF technical skills, and training
materials would be needed for the component.
Human Resources Development
12.   A range of capacity building activities on which the success of the Program are based will
be implemented. These are summarized below:
Training Related Activites (these will be incorporated into the RWS Program training
strategy)
(a)    Develop/adapt a range of training, information, educational, and promotional
materials (on hygiene education, on-site sanitation facility construction and
promotion, environmental hygiene etc.) for use with and by trainers, masons,
teachers, extension agents and community members. The use of the materials
should incorporate participatory methodologies.
(b)   Identify and train experienced masons and small enterprises who would be
licensed to construct and promote on-site sanitation facilities (they would also be
assisted in developing their marketing and business management skills and in
developing a better understanding of the Water and Hygiene Codes). These
masons would also be trained in the construction of rainwater roof catchments.
(c)   Identify and train extension agents (from groups of NGOs or other private
individuals) to conduct promotion, hygiene education and sensitization activities
using participatory methods.
Marketing Related Activities
(d)    Develop a set of tools for mass media and local marketing of on-site sanitation
facilities.



Annex 34
Page 5 of 6
Construction Related Activities
(e)   Identify a range of on-site excreta disposal systems which can be easily
constructed in rural areas at affordable costs, are well suited to the existing
conditions within the community and which use local materials where
appropriate.
(f)    Make available to the population (households, communities, schools, health
centers), private sector personnel with the appropriate skills for construction of
a range of sanitation facilities which are within their ability and willingness to
pay.
(g)   Initiate a program for construction of facilities (latrines and water points) in
schools and health care centers in association with a hygiene education and
environmental sanitation program.
13.   The sanitation promotion program will implemented during a four year period with the
major training and mnarketing drive occurring during years one and two.
C. SERVICE DELIVERY
Household On-Site Latrines
14.   Construction of household facilities will be done on a demand driven basis with
households directly paying the full costs for services provided. An initial socio-economic and
baseline study and a WTP module will provide useful information for planming purposes
especially in determining the need for a subsidy. It is however planned to reduce the costs of the
on-site facilities (using alternative designs and building materials) such that there will be no need
for subsidy. Follow up WTP surveys, will help to assess the effectiveness of the marketing and
financing strategies adopted. Trained artisans currently construct facilities for households; efforts
will be made to make services more efficient and effective. Marketing and promotion activities
will support the whole process.
Facilities for Schools and Health Centers
15.   An analysis will be made of the existing conditions of school/health center latrines and
water points. An evaluation will be made of the current hygiene education program in schools.
A construction program (for the roof catchments and latrines), materials development/adaptation
program will then be developed based on these studies. The participating communities will be
expected to provide about 30% of the cost of construction of the facilities which is what they are
currently doing. This may be modified subsequent to the demand studies.
Monitoring and Evaluation
16.   The monitoring and evaluation indicators will be developed by the national and regional
teams (with external assistance) once they are in place.  Three interlinked strategies for
monitoring and evaluation will be employed:



Annex 3-4
Page 6 of 6
(a)    assessment of the increase in demand (eg.using WTP as a monitoring tool, using
numbers of new facilities constructed);
(b)    assessment of the effectiveness of the marketing/promotion campaign to be done
monitoring several key indicators and;
(c)    assessment of the implementation strategy as a whole, also using selected
indicators for monitoring (eg. number of trained artisans, improvement in general
environment).
Each of these will employ measurement of a mix of quantitative and qualitative indicators.



Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Protocole d'Accord
pour I'Execution du Projet d'Assistance au developpement
du secteur de l'alimentation en eau et de I'assainissement en nilieu rural
()partements du Zou et de I'Atlantique)
Preambule
1.    II a et conclu entre le Ministere de l'Energie, des Mines et de l'Hydraulique
represente par la direction de I'Hydraulique (DH) et le Ministere de la Sante
(MS) repr6sente par la Direction de l'Hygiene et de l'Assainissement (DHA) un
accord pour l'execution du Projet d'Assistance a la Mise en Oeuvre de la
Nouvelle Strat6gie pour le Secteur de l'Hydraulique Villageoise.
2.     Ledit projet comporte deux composantes:
(a)    Composante principale: Alimentation en Eau Potable;
(b)    Composante d'accompagnement:   Assainissement (promotion des
installations sanitaires).
3.    Le MEMH a travers la DH est le responsable du projet et le represente devant
les Autorit6s, les bailleurs de fonds, et les partenaires au developpement.
4.     La DHA sera responsable de la conception et de l'execution technique de la
composante assainissement.
Financement du projet
5.    La gestion des fonds du projet est entierement sous la responsabilite de la DH.
6.    Un budget cons6quent sera etabli pour toutes les activites du projet.
7.    L'ex6cution financiere des activites relatives a la composante assainissement sera
assur6e par la DH conformement au programme etabli.
8.    Les d6penses engag6es pour la composante assainissement seront certifiees par
la DHA.
9.    Les equipements necessaires a la r6alisation de la composante assainissement
seront affect6s a la DHA.
III    Organisation et coordination
III-1 Niveau Central (National)



Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 2
10.   La programmation et la coordination technique des activites seront principalement
assurees par les responsables de la DH (4 personnes) et de la DHA (1 personne).
11-2   Niveau r6gional
11.   Les 6quipes du Service R6gional de l'Hydraulique (SRH) vont assurer la
programnmation, le contr6le et le suivi des activit6s de la composante
Alimentation en Eau Potable.
12.   Les equipes de la DHA basees dans les Services d'Hygiene et d'Assainissement
(SHA) au niveau des Directions D6partementales de la Sante (DDS) vont assurer
la programmation, le contr6le et le suivi de la composante assainissement.
13.   La coordination des activites sera effectuee par les deux equipes sous la
responsabilite du SRH.
IV-3 Niveau Communautes
14.   Le contact direct avec les populations se fera avec les Organisations Non
gouvernementales (ONG) et les structures privees.
15.   Les SRH et SHA vont participer a la conception et a 1'execution des programmes
de formation des ONG et des structures privees.
16.   Le programme de formation en IEC / marketing des ONG sera conumun aux
deux composantes.
IV    Comit6 de suivi et d'dvaluation
16.   Le comite de suivi et d'evaluation sera compose de la facon suivante:
*     le DH
*     le DHA
*     les deux CPC du MEMH et du MS
*     la direction technique du projet
PrEst par
DH                                                                     DHA
Approuv6 par:
MEMH                                                                     MS



Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Programme de formation
JUSTIFICATION
1.    Le developpement des ressources humaines doit etre compris dans son sens le plus large.
II comprend le recrutement et la selection du personnel, la planification a long terme des besoins
en personnel, les politiques de gestion des ressources humaines telles que les moyens d'incitation
a la tache et les formations formelles comme informelles, leur suivi, les actions d'information.
II concerne pratiquement tous les acteurs du secteur a tous les niveaux hierarchiques: d6cideurs,
cadres ingenieurs et techniciens, agents de terrain, organisations villageoises.
2.     La decentralisation du processus de prise de decision impose un changement radical des
r6les et responsabilites traditionnellement joues par les structures d'appui aux communautes.
Chacun doit apprendre a ecouter, motiver, organiser, former et soutenir les actions de ces
communautes. Pour que ces communautes puissent prendre des decisions justes, les personnes
directement chargees de les encadrer devront aller au dela de la simple sensibilisation a la
necessite de cotiser de l'argent pour obtenir un point d'eau moderne. Le personnel de ces
structures d'appui devra developper ses competences pour etre capable d'informer les populations
sur les caracteristiques ainsi que les avantages et inconvenients de chaque type d'ouvrage. Les
communautes par ailleurs, doivent developper leurs capacites de s'organiser pour elaborer et
realiser des projets d'approvisionnement en eau et,1ou d'assainissement qui beneficient d'un
soutien durable des villageois.
3.     Les responsables des structures gouvemementales, non gouvernementales et des petites
et moyennes entreprises doivent ameliorer leurs competences en matiere de definition de strategies
et plans d'actions, de programmation, supervision et coordination d'activites, ainsi que de
collaboration avec leurs partenaires. Les techniciens de ces PME, les puisatiers, magons,
distributeurs de pieces d6tach6es, petits reparateurs d'equipement d'eau ou d'assainissement
doivent apprendre des techniques nouvelles en matiere d'hydraulique ou d'assainissement comme
de gestion de leur activite. Les services publics centraux et locaux doivent ameliorer leurs
capacites a planifier, coordonner, controler les activites des autres acteurs du secteur.
STRAT1GIE DU PROGRAMME DE FORMATION
*      Mise en place d'un systeme de selection du personnel performant. II sera necessaire de
pouvoir disposer d'equipes pluridisciplinaires au niveau central comme au niveau
r6gional. Ainsi, le cas echeant, les personnels de l'hydraulique rurale et de la sante
appartiendront i une meme equipe pour assister les projets des communautes qui
comporteront a la fois un volet eau et un volet assainissement.
*     Les competences techniques et comportementales du personnel seront regulierement
appreciees afin de beneficier d'equipes solides.
*      Institution de pratiques permettant de motiver le personnel, particulierement pour les
institutions gouvernementales: participation a des formations, a des rencontres nationales
comme internationales, accas a des primes d'incitation, avancement.



Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 6
*     Utilisation des techniques participatives
*     Renforcement institutionnel de toutes les organisations qui en ont besoin, afin que leur
strategie d'intervention soit claire, qu'elles puissent acceder aux ressources humaines,
financieres et materielles qui leur sont necessaires pour fonctionner et qu'elles sachent
bien les gerer.
*      Developpement d'6changes interdisciplinaires a travers des activites d'equipes et de
structures de coordination et de suivi regroupant des professionnels de diverses
disciplines. Ceci se ferait a tous les niveaux et entre institutions, et serait appuye par des
d6finitions claires des roles et responsabilites de chacun.
*     Information de facon la plus large possible de tous les acteurs du secteur sur les
approches employees, ce qui motive leur choix, sur les resultats obtenus afin de
consolider l'harmonisation des points de vue autour de la nouvelle strategie et des
manieres de la mettre en oeuvre au niveau national.
*      Emploi des moyens qui favorisent 1'apprentissage en cours de projet: par I'analyse
rdguli6re des problemes rencontres et la redefinition des objectifs, approches, moyens et
methodes experimentees pour mettre en oeuvre la strategie nationale.
*      Preference donn6e a la formation en cours d'execution des activites des personnes
formres et suivi suffisant sur le terrain.
*     Recours a une ONG internationale qui assurerait la formation de formnateurs et des actions
de renforcement institutionnel de structures locales. Cette ONG internationale ne serait
donc pas directement active sur le terrain.
*      D6veloppement des formations formelles qui manquent encore ou qui doivent etre
amelior6es afin de satisfaire les besoins en formation de ce type.
*      Renforcement d'un reseau de communication entre les structures fournissant des
formations et les demandeurs de formations.
DESCREMTION DU PROGRAMME DE FORMATION
Le programme de formation comporte quatre grands types d'action:
-      les formations theoriques, toujours doubl6es de formations pratiques, car
directement adapt6es aux activites des personnes formees, dans pratiquement
toutes les actions de formation, le suivi joue un r6le majeur.
-      l'infonnation sur la nouvelle approche qui est comptee comme une action de
formation car ce sera l'occasion pour la DH et les SRH d'apprendre a batir une
campagne d'information avec des specialistes: Une agence de publicite sera
associ6e et ses termes de references comprendront un volet d'apprentissage de
techniques de marketing - participatif (les idees A promouvoir etant identifides
avec la participation des groupes cibles de l'operation de marketing).



Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 6
I'apprentissage pour documenter les experiences obtenues au fur et a mesure
que le projet avance, ainsi que pour diffuser toutes informations relatives a ces
experiences.
les apprentissages pour auto-evaluer chaque trimestre les activit6s de la DH et
des SRH, et plus tard l'ensemble du projet, par une evaluation externe oh
l'occasion sera donnee aux specialistes locaux de parfaire leurs methodes.
Les formations thboriques doublees de formations pratiques.
1. Tous groupes cibles
Tous les groupes cibles recevront la visite d'une equipe de consultants provenant d'un
bureau d'etudes et d'une ONG internationale. Cette 6quipe rencontrera des repr6sentants
de ces groupes cibles afin d'identifier leurs besoins en formation. Les trois semaines
prevues A cet effet permettront de degrossir les besoins A satisfaire. Puis, des equipes
plus spcialisees afficheront les besoins en formation de chaque groupe A former: ainsi
pourront etre choisi un bureau d'etude international, ayant de l'experience en matiere
d'eau et d'assainissement, une ONG internationale ayant deja travaille en 6quipe pour
aider une ONG A elaborer sa strategie d'intervention, ses priorites d'action... La DH
pourra choisir de faire venir un cadre d'une administration africaine, qui assiste d'un
consultant international effectuera un transfert de competences dans un domaine oh son
minist6re est assez avance par rapport au ministere des Mines, de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Energie.
2. Equipe pluridisciplinaire DH
Un consultant international assistera lequipe dans l'elaboration d'un programme detaill6
d'activite et des termes de references precis de chaque membre de l'equipe. En anticipant
sur les resultats de l'identification des besoins en formation il est propose a ces personnes
un renforcement de leur capacit6 de travailler en equipe, A planifier et suivre leurs
activites. C'est egalement A la meme periode que l'equipe pluridisciplinaire de la DH
pourra mettre en place un mecanisme d'auto-evaluation de ses activites, avec un
specialiste des methodes d'auto-evaluation. Puis, plus tard au moment oh la DH devra
passer des marches de travaux ou de fournitures, il est prevu une formation sur
l'elaboration des termes de ref6rences, dossiers d'appel d'offres, suivi et contr6le des
travaux et services comrnandes.
3. Equipes pluridisciplinaires SRH
Les deux equipes beneficieront de l'assistance du meme consultant international que la
DH pour elaborer son programme detaill6 d'activites et des termes de references precis
de chaque membre de l'6quipe. II est aussi prevu un renforcement de leurs capacit6s de
travailler en equipe, comme de planifier et suivre leurs activites. Suivra ensuite mais
dans la meme periode, la mise en place d'un mecanisme d'auto-evaluation de leurs
activites, puis la formation liee aux passations de marches.
A cela, s'ajoutera un appui particulier aux equipes des SRH. C'est celui d'une ONG
internationale qui aura pour r6le de mettre en place un systeme informatis6 de collecte
et de presentation de l'information disponible sur le projet, afin par exemple, d'informer



Annex 3-6
Page 4 of 6
les membres de deux comites de suivi du projet de decentralisation. Cette tache de la
phase II sera suffisamment lourde pour etre la seule que l'on confierait A une ONG
internationale qui a fait ses preuves dans l'emploi de methodes participatives permettant
A divers acteurs du secteur de l'eau et de I'assainissement de mieux dialoguer. Cette
ONG internationale apporterait ses experiences glanees dans d'autres pays de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest od les principes de la strategie de decentralisation du secteur sont similaires.
4. Agents administratifs etfinanciers de la DH et des SRH
Aux actions de formation identiques A celles de la DH et des SRH, s'ajoutent par
anticipation une formation A la gestion administrative et financiere.
5. Responsables, formateurs et agents de terrain des ONG, relais de communication
Pour ce public nous envisageons des formations qui doivent permettre de reellement
decentraliser la prise de decision au niveau des populations rurales. Ce public constitue
le dernier maillon d'une chaine qui relie de maniere informelle, I'administration A ses
administres. L'espace de negociation qui s'y trouve autorise une grande liberte de choix.
Malheureusement, il y regne encore un certain amateurisme qui ne conduit pas les
energies investies avec bonne volonte A des resultats d'envergure.
II est alors propose:
-      un module "animation de diagnostics participatifs"
-      un module "conception et test de materiels didactiques"
-      un module "6laboration de projets villageois d'AEPA"
-      un module "elaboration de projets d'assistance aux projets villageois"
Pour les formateurs, agents de terrain des ONG et relais de communication, il sera
indispensable qu'ils soient capables d'assister les communautes villageoises et autres
usagers potentiels de systemes ameliores d'AEPA, dans le choix precis du systeme qui
leur conviendrait le mieux. Ainsi le recours A des bureaux d'etudes ou des ingenieurs
conseils ne se ferait que pour des cas necessitant un appareillage ou des techniques
vraiment specialises, qui requierent plusieurs mois d'etudes. On formera donc le public
cite ci-dessus de facon a ce qu'il puisse realiser le maximum possible avec le niveau de
formation qu'il possede deja. C'est le r6le du module "options technologiques existantes
et criteres de comparaison de ces options".
6. Responsables et cadres des bureaux d tudes et ONG locales (services lucratifs et non
lucratifs), des PMEfournissant du materiel ou realisant des travaux
Deux modules pourraient leur etre propose, "gestion administrative et financiere", gestion
des ressources humaines". Les objectifs de ces formations seraient similaires, mais
chaque public ayant ses specificites, chaque module sera con,u et teste et realise par des
specialistes du domaine concerne: bureau d'etudes, consultant et ONG internationaux ou
centre de formation local.
7. Formateurs de puisatiers et puisatiers
Jusqu'A present, ce sont principalement des ONG internationales basees localement qui
forment les puisatiers. II est souhaitable qu'une competence locale soit creee pour mettre



Annex 3-6
Page 5 of 6
des puisatiers a la disposition des populations, dans des delais raisonnables. Les besoins
en puisatiers A l'echelle nationale sont encore insuffisamment connus. Mais ce type
d'informations est indispensable A connaitre pour concevoir le module. II faudra donc
identifier le nombre de puisatiers necessaires par departement, leur localisation ideale et
les modes d'intervention qu'ils choisiraient (employ6s temporaires de PME ou non).
II est envisage pour les puisatiers et leurs formateurs un module "techniques de creusage
de puits, elaboration de metres et devis, methodes de recrutement d'artisans puisatiers,
gestion de chantiers "qui ne pourra etre elabore que lorsque les besoins en puisatiers et
leurs conditions futures de travail seront identifies.
Les chantiers offerts par les SRH ou les PME, compteront parmi les terrains de
formation des formateurs de puisatiers et puisatiers. II sera necessaire de determiner les
personnes qui seront les plus A meme d'etre formatrices de puisatiers entre des centres
professionnels qui developpent des activites hors centre et du personnel d'ONG
specialisees.
8. Formateurs de maCons et maCons
I1 est prevu pour eux un module intitule "techniques de construction de latrines,
superstructures pour les pompes, travaux divers pour les mini reseaux, elaboration de
metres et devis, methodes de recrutement de manoeuvres, gestion de chantiers".
L'information sur Ia nouvelle approche.
Une campagne d'information sera elaboree de maniere participative. L'acteur principal sera
l'equipe pluridisciplinaire de la DH, mais les autres groupes cibles seront impliques dans
l'identification des idees A promouvoir et des moyens pour les vehiculer.
Cette campagne se fera en collaboration avec la DHA du ministere de la Sante Publique et
utilisera tous les moyens juges efficaces pour informer sur la nouvelle strategie de developpement
du secteur de l'eau et de l'assainissement. On privilegiera cependant les moyens peu couiteux,
faciles A produire localement, afin de permettre la replicabilite de ces choix par la DH et la DHA.
L'apprentissage pour documenter les experiences
Ceci constitue un aspect essentiel du programme de formation. En effet, le projet d'assistance
A la mise en oeuvre de la nouvelle strategie pour le secteur de l'hydraulique villageoise constitue
un bon terrain d'experimentation d'une maniere d'etablir des normes, des principes de
fonctionnement, de fixer des taux de participation de divers partenaires, de determiner des
responsabilites,... Des plates formes de negociation et d'information seront mises en place afin
que le choix des experimentations a accomplir soit base sur les propositions les plus durables
possibles. Ainsi il sera necessaire d'impliquer les personnes concernees par un choix ou un autre
dans un reseau d'information regulierement alimente.
Pour cela la DH sera assistee par une structure specialisee dans la diffusion d'information relevant
du domaine de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement.  Le module de formation est intitule ici
"programmation et contr6le des activites d'echanges et de documentation d'experiences". Ce
module pourra viser des objectifs tels que:



Annex 3-6
Page 6 of 6
recueillir les attentes des divers intervenants du secteur en matiere d'information
sur le secteur
identifier et diffuser des informations disponibles grace au systeme de gestion
informatise de l'information, aupres des comites de suivi et des bailleurs de
fonds,
elaborer des documents synthetiques sur divers aspects de la phase II du projet
identifier et multiplier en plusieurs exemplaires les materiels pedagogiques qui
pourraient interesser certains intervenants du secteur de l'Eau et de
I 'Assainissement
L'apprentissage pour auto&valuer
Ceci concerne uniquement la DH et les SRH. Les efforts devront se porter sur la mise en place
d'un mecanisme tres simple, qui ne demande pas trop de saisie d'information, mais qui permet
d'effectuer un rep6rage rapide des moyens et methodes qui meritent une attention particuliere,
parce qu'ils doivent etre supprimes ou modifies.
Des ONG ou consultants internationaux ont fait leurs preuves en matiere d'animation
d'autoevaluation. Ils sont bien indiques pour aider A etablir un mecanisme de ce type au sein de
la DH. L'autoevaluation anim6e ou assistee permet non seulement de bien suivre une activite ou
un projet donne, mais aussi de souder une equipe autour d'objectifs/motivations clairement
formules et autour d'un "vocabulaire" commun. "Chacun sait mieux de quoi l'autre parle..."



Annex 3-7
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Supervision Plan
1.    IDA Supervision Inputs. Field supervision needs are described in the following table.
In addition, regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions,
etc. are estimated to require eight staff-weeks per year.
2.    IDA supervision is to be assisted by RWSG-WA which will provide each year about five
staff-months of a rural water supply specialist and of a community development specialist. The
two staff from RWSG-WA would visit Benin every month during the first twelve months and
every two months thereafter.
3.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision. Project's progress and performance will be
evaluated internally through the Follow-up and Evaluation Commnittee set up by DH and DHA
and externally through semi-annual operational audits. Key actions would be as follows:
(a)    Progress reports would be submitted quarterly to IDA. These reports would
include a summnary of implementation under each component, financial statements
on project expenditures, progress against agreed schedule of activities and key
performance indicators and procurement information and cost estimates, updated
as needed. DH will gather and consolidate information provided by the SRHs
and DHA;
(b)   Joint Annual Reviews.   Once a year, DH  would organize a joint
IDA/DANIDA/Government review of project implementation covering: (i)
progress reports and annual work program and budgets; (ii) status of monitoring
indicators listed in Annex 3-8; and (iii) the sectoral investment program. Other
donors represented in Cotonou would be invited to facilitate the dissemination of
lessons learned and experience accumulated during implementation; and
(c)    Mid-term Review. DH and DHA would carry out, not later than March 31, 1996
a mid-term review of the project to assess:  (i) project management and
coordination; (ii) timeliness in providing budgetary allocations and counterpart
funding to DH; (iii) effectiveness of the WSCs and capacity of communities to
plan and manage their water supply facilities; (iv) performance of NGOs and
local consultants in assisting communities to plan their water systems and
performance of contractors in constructing water and sanitation facilities;
(v) impact of sanitation and hygiene education programs; and (vi) overall
progress of project implementation with respect to key indicators. DH would
prepare and transmit to IDA an evaluation report one month in advance of the
mid-term review.
4.    DH would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision missions,
for providing information required by missions. Mission wrap-up meetings would be normally
chaired by the Minister of Mines, Energy and Water.



Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 2
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
SKILL                STAFF
'YEAR                    ACTIVITY                          REQUIREMENTS               INPUT
_________________  ;V       (Staff-weeks)
1994    Project Launch Workshop (July)                  Commnunity development *              2
Water engineer *                      2
Sanitation                            2
Financial analyst                     2
Procurement                           I
Resident mission                      1
First Annual Review (November)                 Community development *                2
Review achievements of Phase I (training and   Water engineer *                       2
information); review of work program, budget and   Sanitation                         2
procurement schedule.                          Economist                              2
Resident mission                      2
1995    Supervision mission (March)                     Community development *2
Review progress of community development;      Financial analyst                      2
assess accounting/disbursement/procurement     Water engineer *                       2
performance.                                   Resident mission                       2
Community development *               2
Second annual review (October)                 Sanitation                             2
Review progress against work program and       Financial analyst                      2
indicators; review of operational and financial  Resident mission                     2
audits; assess community participation                                                  l
1996    MId-term review (March)                         Community development *2
Assessment of effectiveness of decentralized   Water engineer *                       2
approach and sectoral policies and of performance   Sanitation                        2
of private contractors and NGOs. Review of     Financial analyst                      2
generic implementation issues (contract        Resident mission                       2
management, counterpart funding). Project
restructuring if necessary.
Supervision mission (October)                  Water engineer *                       2
Financial analyst                     2
Resident mission                      2
1997    Third annual review (March)                     Community development *               2
Sanitation                            2
Water engineer *                      2
Economist                             2
Resident mission                      2
Completion (July)                              Community development *                2
Water engineer *                      2
Financial analyst                     2
Resident mission                      2
4 Staff of RWSG-WA



Annex 4-1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
The final list of indicators and targets was discussed and agreed upon at negotiations
0      Effectiveness and sustainability of the decentralized planning process:
* Ability of SRHs and NGOs to use participatory methods
* Effective use of self-evaluation procedures
* Effectiveness in mobilizing communities
* Number of rural systems constructed
* Number of schools and health centers enrolled in sanitation program
* Number of household latrines constructed
* Share of operating expenditures financed by budget
o     Development of private sector capacity:
* Number of qualified NGOs
* Number and performance of local drilling contractors
* Number and performance of trained masons and well-diggers
* Unit costs of facilities (water supply and latrines)
* Number and performance of pump mechanics
* Availability of spare parts and after sales service
o     Ownership and community management of facilities:
* Number of active WSCs
* Women's involvement in key positions
* Availability rate of water systems
* Cost recovery and revenue collection
O     Use and impact of facilities:
* Consumption of water dry/rainy season
* Number of users dry/rainy season
* Number of users of on-site sanitation facilities
* Water quality
* Upkeep of water point surrounds and sullage control
* Water hygiene and excreta disposal practices






Annex 5-1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Executive Summary '
Within the framework of the International Water and Sanitation Decade, the Beninese Government
started implementing in 1981 an emergency water program which aimed at providing the population with
20 litres/pers/day of drinking water.
In January 1992, a new rural water supply strategy was approved by the Government. This aims
at reducing the construction and running costs of rural water points and above all, at decentralizing
decision making and promoting financial contributions from the communities being served in order to
ensure sustainability. The "Project to Support the Implementation of the New Rural Water Supply
Strategy", presently being carried out in the Atlantic and Zou Departments, will test decentralization
procedures for the water and sanitation sector in rural areas.
Based on an analysis of the situation (physical and socio-economical) which existed before field
operations were started and the expected impact of the project in different domains, the environmental
study is a necessary step in promoting the sustainable delivery of drinking water and an improvement of
people's living conditions.
1. The area under study is one of considerable hydrogeological and geographical variety.
Besides the fact that the region covers two slightly different climatic zones, (Beninese climate with
4 distinct seasons and a humid Sudanian climate with two rainy seasons which tend to merge into one)
and has an average of 1.200 mm of annual rainfall, it is also characterized by two extremely different
geomorphological land units found side by side. These are the coastal sedimentary basin in the South,
which has a highly varied, complicated and faulted hydrogeological structure and the granitic peneplane
in the Northern part, with much lower discontinuous reserves of ground water found in the rock faults
or in the weathered rock depressions.
The whole of the coastal sedimentary basin is subject to heavy population pressure (200 pers/km2)
with higher densities in some localities near to secondary urban centres and a scattered rural housing
pattern, especially in the Southern part.
The peneplane has a much lower population density (< 30/pers/km2), while the housing pattern
is one of larger, usually well structured villages.
In 1993, the overall water supply coverage was estimated at 50% for the country as a whole with
strong contracts between the Southern and Northern regions *28.75% in the Atlantic and 58.76% in the
Zou). Unsatisfied needs are still important in the Zou and above all in those areas of the Atlantic
Department which have a scattered rural housing pattern.
As far as possible, the location of water points has to respect the environmental situation in each
particular case, and it is therefore necessary to examine the prevailing situation in the different landscape
units in which the program will be operating.
The environmental study was carried out by the Center for Environment and Development in
Africa (Ceda, Cotonou, Benin) in January 1994. Field surveys were conducted in sixteen villages
of the Zou and Atlantique departments.



Annex 5-1
Page 2 of 3
2. The five landscape units which make up the Atlantic and Zou Departments each provide
different constraints for locating water points. The major constraints are summed up in the description
of each of the five landscape units.
In the Coastal and riverine-lakeside zone, ground water is extremely close to the surface and
the difficulties in reaching many villages, the scattered housing pattern and the existence of a large
number of traditional wells in areas with a high water table as well as the lack of family and comrnunity
resources have not made it easy to provide water points and to make them run by the communities. and
artesian wells can be a major factor in populating the area and in promoting regional development; they
would also favor increased commnunity participation in different development activities.
The Allada plateau is densely inhabited but the population is spread over wide areas of cultivated
land. Setting up water points is therefore not subject to many environmental constraints, although it is
necessary to obtain better control over rare resources and use them in a sustainable manner.
The Lama depression is underpopulated and lacks traditional water points.  Given its
hydrogeological potentialities, boreholes and artesian wells can be a major factor in populating the area
and in promoting regional development; they would also favor increased community participation in
different development activities.
The Abomey-Zagnanado plateau is characterized by a deep water table level (70m) and a low
level of community achievements. (Rainwater catchment which are frequently built in this area are
individual or family properties.) Technical problems which people manage individually do not necessarily
make it easier for communities to assume the cost of providing drinking water.
In the Granitic-gneissic peneplane, the low level of weathering of much of the rock base makes
well digging difficult. Only the existence of faults and the presence of numerous quartz seams make it
worthwhile to drill small diameter boreholes fitted with a handpump.
The region being studied is subject to important environmental changes. The important climatic
variations in the region do not necessarily mean that there will be a long-term dry period. The present
abundance of groundwater will only be affected by climatic change if there is a worsening of the
morphogenetic conditions (high erosion levels on the granitic base and more important seasonal flooding
in the valleys and the coastal lagoons). Overall, the region studied shows a high level of water related
illnesses (malaria, gastro-enteritis, dracunculosis, onchocercosis, etc...).  For most of the families
surveyed, ( > 90 %), excreta disposal is in the bush. The rapid and disorganized extension of larger rural
centers and bourgs means that much new housing is being located near to dumped refuse, ponds and
excreta deposits.
3.    Some possible negative effects on the environment can occur but are not very important and
can be reduced by simple measures which are already taken into account in the project:
-      groundwater recharge, even in dry years, is far more important than the quantities to be
extracted by the water points to be realized, only the realization small pipe-borne systems
on granitic gneissic peneplain needs specific hydrological studies related to this problem
and will be realized by the project:
proper siting and design of water points will ensure that there are no risks of groundwater
pollution to and from the water point and of creation of a favorable habitat for water



Annex 5-1
Page 3 of 3
diseases;
-     a great involvement of community in the choice, design and running of equip.. ,s will
ensure their sustainability and access to drinking water to all categories of population.
4.    The positive effects on the environment are obvious, amongst which are:
the improvement in health and living conditions;
labor and energy saving for women who are the principal actors in drawing water;
the improvement of rural production.
5.    Both the field survey and the other information available, show that the positive effects of
new water points are dominant. However, in an environmentally favorable context, all rural water
supply programs should include reinforcement measures. They would have the following major thrusts:
-     improvement of health conditions;
-     improvement of living conditions;
-     labor saving for women;
-     increased production;
-     an entry point for village lands improvement and management.
The project includes not only important actions for promoting on-site sanitation facilities and construction
but also for education in hygiene.
These objectives can only be achieved by setting up community development structures
aimed at promoting grass roots development. An appropriate institutional structure is included in
the project for decentralizing the decision making process.
The decentralized structures of the Water Resources Division will be responsible, together with
non governmental organizations (NGOs) for encouraging villagers to use drinking water and at the same
time assisting them in choosing appropriate technical solutions.
Extension work and training of villagers, who are generally quite capable of managing their own
belongings, will be undertaken by the NGOs and the Local Development Associations which are in close
relation with the village communities.



