Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2622 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 21, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2622 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated May 3, 1994, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, together with a timetable, designed to 
implement the Borrower's strategy in the rural water and sanitation sector 
(hereinafter called the Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of such Program;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of Denmark (hereinafter 
referred to as Denmark) a grant (the Danish Grant) in an amount equivalent to four 
million dollars ($4,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the  Danish Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Denmark;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement;
(c)
"CFAF" or "CFA francs" means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(d)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual prepared by the 
Borrower, adopted by MEMH, and satisfactory to the Association;
(e)
"Beneficiaries Assessment Studies" means the studies carried out during 
the Project's preparation to ascertain the willingness of the communities to pay for 
the rehabilitation and improvement of water supply facilities;
(f)
"DH" means Direction de l'Hydraulique, the Directorate of Water Works of 
the Borrower's Ministry responsible for Energy, Mines and Water;
(g)
"DHA" means Direction de l'Hygiene et de l'Assainissement, the 
Directorate of Hygiene and Sanitation of the Borrower's Ministry responsible for 
Health;
(h)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office of the UNDP 
(United Nation Development Programme);
(i)
"MEMH" means Ministere de l'Energie, des Mines et de l'Hydraulique, the 
Borrower's Ministry responsible for Energy, Mines and Water;
(j)
"MS" means Ministere de la Sante, the Borrower's Ministry responsible for 
Health;
(k)
"NGO" means Non Governmental Organizations;
 
(l)
"SME" means small and medium enterprises;
 
(m)
"SRH" means Service Regional de l'Hydraulique, the Borrower's Water Works 
Regional Office;
(n)
"VLOM" means Village Level Operation and Maintenance;
 
(o)
"Village Projects Documents" means the documents, prepared by the 
communities with the assistance of NGOs and approved by DH, specifying the facilities 
to be constructed and the management and financing arrangement;
(p)
"WSC" means Comite villageois pour l'eau et l'assainissement, Water and 
Sanitation Committee; and
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre- paration advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated 
October 16, 1992 and Novem-ber 30, 1992, and May 9, 1994 and May 18, 1994, 
respectively, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services  required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all  unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30  immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2004 and ending May 15, 2034. Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on, May 15, 2014 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent  to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
Page  4
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MS and MEMH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering, environmental, water and 
sanitation practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and maintain a Project Account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association to be used exclusively for the purposes 
of meeting expenditures for the Project, which are not externally financed; and
(b)
in addition to the initial deposit referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, deposit into the Project Account, promptly before each fiscal semester 
starting after the Effective Date, sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's contribution 
to the financing of the Project required  for such fiscal semester, as estimated by 
the Borrower in consultation with the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
terms and provisions of a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, on the basis of the Beneficiaries Assessment 
Studies, ensure that communities, schools and health centers, as the case may be, 
participating under Parts A and C of the Project shall: (a) pay part of the capital 
cost and all recurrent costs of water and sanitation facilities, as specified in the 
Project Implementation Manual, on the basis of the respective levels of services 
provided; (b) own and manage their water and sanitation facilities; and (c) establish 
their proposed Village Project Documents and financial arrangements in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Manual.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) by March 31, 1996, carry out jointly with 
the Association a mid-term review of the Project which shall cover inter alia: (i) an 
evaluation of the Project's management and coordination; (ii) an assessment of the 
Borrower's timeliness in providing budgetary allocations and counterpart funding; 
(iii) an evaluation of the WSCs' effectiveness and of the communities' capacity to 
plan and manage their water supply facilities; (iv) an assessment of the NGOs and 
local consultants' performance in assisting the communities to plan their water 
systems and of the contractors' performance in constructing water and sanitation 
facilities; (v) an evaluation of the sanitation and hygiene education programs' 
impact; and (vi) an overall assessment of Project implementation;
(b)
in order to facilitate this review, prepare and submit to the 
Association, not later than four weeks before the scheduled date of this review, a 
report of Project activities of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out such corrective actions as the Borrower and the 
Association shall determine in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than November 30 of each year, carry 
out jointly with the Association annual reviews which shall cover, inter alia, an 
assessment of the Project, work program, and budgets and a review of the Borrower's 
Page  5
public investment program for the water
supply and sanitation sector.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall transmit to the Association at the end of each 
fiscal quarter reports on the Project implementation progress in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association for the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) by January 1, 1995 cease all of its 
drilling and wells digging activities on force account; and
(b)
by January 1, 1996 divest all of its drilling and well digging equipment 
and machinery under terms and procedures satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for The Special Account and the Project Account for each 
semester of the fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors, acceptable to the Association;
(iii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year for the 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section and three 
months after the end of each such semester for the audits referred 
to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, respectively, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
Page  6
semestrial audit referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such semester of the fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Borrower's 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Danish Grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the Danish Grant Agreement; and
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the Project Implementation Manual, or any provision thereof, shall have 
been altered, amended or disregarded without the prior consent of the Association.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Special Account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association and has deposited therein the initial 
deposit in an amount in CFA francs equivalent to thirty million (CFA 30,000,000);
(c)
the Borrower has submitted a draft agreement satisfactory to the 
Association for the acquisition of the VLOM handpumps;
(d)
the Borrower has employed independent auditors on the basis of agreements 
satisfactory to the Association;
(e)
the Borrower has established within DH an accounting and budget system 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(f)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Danish Grant 
Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
B.P. 302
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
5009
5289
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Candide Ahouansou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated        % of
                               (Expressed in        Expenditures
       Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  8
(1)     Civil works:
    (a) Civil works for            2,300,000        68%
        Parts A and D
        of the Project
    (b) Civil works for              450,000        68%
        Part C of the
        Project
(2)     Equipment:
    (a) Equipment for                177,000        63%
        Part A of the
        Project
    (b) Handpumps under              673,000        68%
        Part B of the
        Project
    (c) Equipment and                106,000        63%
        vehicles under
        Part D of the
        Project
(3) Consultants'                   1,197,000        68%
    services
(4) Training                         319,000        68%
(5) Incremental                      283,000        68% until
    Operating Costs                                 December 31,
                                                    1994; 60% from
                                                    January 1, 1995
                                                    to December 31,
                                                    1995; 53% from
                                                    January 1, 1996
                                                    to December 31,
                                                    1996; 45% there-
                                                    after
(6) Refunding of                     829,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                                    Agreement
(7) Unallocated                      666,000
        TOTAL                      7,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means 
the incremental project related costs incurred for the cost of equipment maintenance, 
office supplies, vehicle maintenance and operation, travel allowances for Project 
staff and the compensation for accounting staff recruited for the Project under fixed 
term contracts.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures for goods, works and 
services under contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (i) maximize the 
impact and use of safe water supply and sanitation facilities in rural areas; and (ii) 
implement a rural water and sanitation services policy responsive to the demands of 
Page  9
the rural population.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Water Supply
 
Provision and/or rehabilitation of rural water facilities and systems on the 
basis of Village Projects Documents.
Part B:
VLOM Pumps
 
Acquisition and delivery of approximately 1,500 pumps intended to cover the 
needs of rehabilitated and new water facilities over a period of three years.
Part C:
Sanitation and Hygiene Education
 
1.
Development and dissemination of marketing and promotion tools designed to 
increase the demand for improved sanitation services.
2.
Design of appropriate training materials and training programs intended for 
private masons and relating to the construction and marketing of latrines.
3.
Construction of latrines, including the provision of water points, in schools 
and health centers; development and dissemination of training material on hygiene 
education and latrines' proper management.
4.
Integration of messages relating to improved management of sanitation 
facilities, hygiene, and healthy community environment maintenance into the 
mobilization and training activities for delivery of improved water supply facilities 
to the communities.
Part D:
Public and Private Sector Capacity Building
 
1.
Provision of training and technical assistance to DH and DHA's staff by 
specialists in, inter alia, community development, partici- patory techniques, self 
evaluation techniques, contract management, promotion of water and sanitation 
services, accounting, and financial management.
2.
Provision of training and technical assistance to NGOs and SMEs by specialists 
in, inter alia, design and execution of community projects, participatory techniques, 
and self evaluation techniques.
3.
Assistance to DH and DHA's operational and financial evaluation activities.
 
4.
Institutional strengthening of DH and DHA through, inter alia, office 
rehabilitation and the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
Page  10
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$1,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Contracts for civil works, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 
per contract, may be procured: (a) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $100,000, under direct contracting in accordance with procedures 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual and acceptable to the Association; and 
(b) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $350,000, under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three contractors, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Contracts for goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $450,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Contracts for goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association or contracts entered into 
with IAPSO.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to  ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
Page  11
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower shall also 
employ UNICEF under terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the 
Association,
in order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the Project. For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not  apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to:  (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association  shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
Page  12
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of  Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that  the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
