Document of
The World Bank
Repot No. 13568-CV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
DECEMBER 19, 1994
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Cape Verdian Escudo / US$1 = 82 Esc
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
September - June
ACRONYMS
AfDB                   African Development Bank
CENFA                  Center for Administrative Training and Upgrading
CFN                    Maritime Training School
DGA                    Directorate General for Administration (MOES)
DGE                    Directorate General for Education (MOES)
DGEX                   Directorate General for Education and Non Formal Education
DL                     Department of Labor (MLYSA)
EBC                    Complementary Basic Education (Ensino Bdsico Complementrar): Grades 5 and 6
EBE                    Elementary Basic Education (Ensinio Basico Elementtar): Grades 1-4
EBI                    Integrated Basic Education (Ensino Bdsico Itntegrado): Grades 1-6
EC                     Executive Committee (TSF)
ECIM                   Industrial and Commercial School of Mindelo (Lycee Technique)
ESC                    Complementary Secondary Education (Ensino Secundirio Complenentlar): Grades 10-12
ESG                    General Secondary Education (Ensinlo Secunded(irio Gerail): Grades 7-9
FEE                    Textbook Revolving Fund (Fondo Edimaio Escolar)
GEP                    Cabinet of Planning and Research (MOES)
GOCV                   Government of Cape Verde
IAPSO                  Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
ICASE                  Cape Verdean Institute for Social Action
ICR                    Implementation Completion Report
IET                    Institute for Employment and Training (MLYSA)
IFAP                   Institute for Professional Training and Upgrading
IG                     General Inspectorate (MOES)
INAG                   National School for Management and Administration
INIDA                  Agricultural Training Center
IP                     Pedagogic Institute (MOES)
MLYSA                  Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Affairs
MOES                   Ministry of Education and Sports
MOI                    Ministry of Infrastructure
MOJL                   Ministry of Justice and Labor
MfD                    Movement for Democracy
NACET                  National Advisory Council for Employment and Training
NRCV                   Non-Resident Cape Verdians
PCU                    Project Coordinating Unit
PPF                    Project Preparation Facility
PREBA                  Basic Education Project (Coordinating Unit)
SA                     Special Account
SSA                    Sub-Saharan Africa
SSE                    Secretary Of State for Employment
TSF                    Training Support Fund
UNICEF                 United Nations International Children's Fund
WFP                    World Food Program



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................... i-iv
1. INTRODUCTION ............................I
11. SECTORAL CONTEXT .......................2
A. Country Background ..................,.2
B.  Macro-economic Conditions and Policies .....................................2
C.  Population, Employment, and the Labor Force .....................................,.,,,,..            3
D.  The Education and Training Syslem ....................................5
1. Existing System .................5
2. Cost and Financing ...............7
3. Issues in Education ....................................          ...7
4. Issues in Training and Employment ...................................9
5. Issues in Management and Coordination ..................................                         10
E.  Government Strategy .................................. 11
F. The Bank Group's Role ...................                                                              11
I1 THE PROJECT .12
A. Project Objectives and Scope .................................................                        12
B.  Project Support ................................................. 13
1. Establish nationwide the Integrated Basic Education System ................................................ 14
2. Improve the Relevance of Technical Education and Training .............................................. 17
3. Enhance the Institutional Capacity to Develop and Implement Policies and Programs .......... 20
C.  Project Cost and Financing .................................................................... 24
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................................          25
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness .                                                         25
B.  Project Coordination and Management .................................. 26
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation .................................. 26
D.  Procurement and Disbursement .............................                                           26
E.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .............................                                     31
V PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                             ..31
A. Benefits .31
B.  Risks.32
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED ....................... 32
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Shaheddine Ben-
Halima (Task Manager, Operations Officer/AF5PH), Joseph Bredie (Sr. Education Specialist/), and Sakhavar
Diop (Textbook Specialist/AFTHR), Alastair Rodd (Economist, Consultant), and Amokrane Galou (Technical
Education, Consultant). Mr. Rene Vaurs (Sr. Economist/MNlCO), participated in the preparation. The Peer
Reviewers are Messrs. Berkman (AFTHR) and Holsinger (ESP). Ms. Celine Gavach (Staff Assistant) participated
in the processing and Ms. Janine Leygonie (Sr. Staff Assistant/AF5PH) finalized the report. Mr. Jean Louis
Sarbib is the Department Director and Mr. Ok Pannenborg is the managing Division Chief for this operation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.         Policy letter, Monitoring indicators .................................................... 35
2.         Basic Data ...................................................                                                                 41
3.         Profile and recruitment process for Pedagogic Advisors and Directors ....................... ............... 44
4.         Textbooks distribution system .................................................... 47
5.         MOES Organization Chart ................................................... 49
6.         Technical Education - assessment of current system ...................................................                         50
7.         Training Support Fund Statute ...................................................                                              54
8.         Apprenticeship ...................................................                                                             58
9.         Professional Training ................................................... 60
10.        General description of TSF ................................................... 64
11.        School Feeding ................................................... 67
12.        Summary Project Cost and Financing ................................................... 72
13.        TOR for PCU ................................................... 86
14.        Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan .................................................... 91
15.        Procurement schedule ...................................................                                                      93
16.        Review  Threshold ...................................................                                                         95
17.        Disbursement profile ...................................................                                                      96
Map:  IBRD 26149



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAiNG PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Cape Verde
Beneficiaries:     Ministry of Education and Sports and the Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social
Affairs
Credit Amount:    SDR7.8million (US$11.5 million)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives  Key elements of the Government's medium to long-term strategy to
and Description:   promote economic growth are to foster private sector development and promote
sectors that best exploit the country's human resource potential such as fisheries,
tourism, export processing and services.   Realizing that low  educational
attainment of the population combined with a shortage of skilled labor in specific
sectors is a serious bottleneck to successful implementation of this strategy, the
Government is committed to pursuing the development of its human resources at
all levels. In a Human Resource Development Strategy presented at a Donor
Round Table in November 1992, the Government proposed enhancing the lower
and medium-level skills of the active population and the productivity of its labor
force in three ways. First, by ensuring that all children receive at least six years
of quality schooling, through the introduction, beginning in September 1994, of
an integrated primary education cycle (EBI), that combines the two existing
cycles, and expand a new curriculum. Second, by extending the coverage of
secondary education and revising the content of the general academic curriculum
to increase the science and mathematics content. Third, by improving the
relevance and quality of technical, vocational and professional training, in
conjunction with improving the efficiency of the labor markets.
The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing this strategy
by: (i) supporting the infrastructural, pedagogic, and managerial improvements
needed to introduce the revised integrated primary cycle nationally; (ii)
improving the quality and relevance of the technical, vocational and professional
training system to provide skills relevant to the labor market; and (iii)
strengthening the institutional capacity to develop policies and implement
programs for education, training, and employment. An African Development
Bank project is addressing quality improvements in general secondary education.
Specifically, the project would:
1.   Establish nationwide the Integrated Basic Education System (EBI) by: (i)
upgrading  school  infrastructure  through  a  classroom   construction  and
rehabilitation program, including the replacement of rented classrooms; (ii)
upgrading and deploying primary school teachers; and (iii) establishing a
sustainable textbook supply and distribution system.



ii
2.   Improve the relevance of Technical Education and Training by: (i)
improving the quality and relevance of technical secondary education by raising
the entry level to completion of the first cycle of secondary education and
supporting  curricula  changes  and  teacher  training;  (ii)  improving  the
effectiveness of training programs through the provision of incentives to develop
market-oriented training courses in existing training institutions and in
businesses; and (iii) supporting pilot programs to strengthen apprenticeship and
professional programs with affiliated overseas Universities.
3.   Develop the Institutional Capacity to Develop Programs and Implement
Policies by: (i) reinforcing MOES planning, implementation and managerial
capacity at the central and regional levels; and (ii) developing the institutional
capacity to monitor training and employment activities, including strengthening
the employment centers.
Benefits            By project end, Cape Verde will be the first Sahelian country to achieve
and Risks:          universal primary  education  with ebout 98%  net enrollment ratio.   The
introduction  of  compulsory  basic  education,  combined   with  quality
improvements, would ensure that about 85% of students entering in Grade 1 will
pass the primary school leavers' exam. Furthermore, the new curriculum would
ensure that primary education graduates will be better prepared for continuing
education and provided with general life skills including improved health
practices and environmental awareness.  Training Fund-supported programs,
apprenticeships, and correspondence courses will provide training and the
acquisition of skills for about 1,000 people annually, including an estimated 20%
of the labor market entrants. The Fund would encourage the growth of still-
nascent private sector and decentralization of training opportunities to rural areas
and provide incentives to improve the flexibility of planning and management of
all training centers and strengthening their links with employers, increasing
efficiency in resource use. Improvements in employment services will respond
to the need to fill skill-deficient pockets of market demand.
There are three main risks: First, the generalization of EBI could be threatened
by  the  limited  planning  and  management  capacity  to  implement the
recommendations of the school map, designed to promote rational use of
classrooms and deployment of teachers.  This will be mitigated by intensive
support for the Directorate of Planning during the transition period, and
continuing strengthening of all MOES Directorates throughout the project.
Second, the training institutions may be slow to adjust their programs to changes
in labor market demands. This will be mitigated by establishing an effective
monitoring system that will provide the signals required to rapidly adjust training
programs to labor market demand by providing incentives and support to demand
driven training, and by the involving the private sector in the design and delivery
of programs. Third, the Government may be unable to meet the recurrent cost
implications of the program for both primary education and professional training.
For EBI, increased salary expenditures will be partially offset by a reduction in
expenditures for rented classrooms, by cost recovery for textbooks and by a
minimal growth in the teaching force. For the training sector, the project will
cover some of the initial burden until financial participation of the private sector
in specific training programs increases.



iii
Environmental      No environmental risks are foreseen. The limited primary school
Risks:             construction will largely be at existing sites and will meet national
environmental standards. None will be displaced.
Economic Rate of  Not applicable.
Return:



iv
SUMMARY OF PRO.IECT COST ESTIMATES
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
Local   Foreign    TOTAL
(US$ M\illion)
1. Establish nationwide the Integrated Basic Education    5.0  5.3       10.3
System (EBI)
2. Improve the Relevance of Technical Education and  1.0     1.0          2.0
Training
3. Develop Institutional Capacity to Develop and   0.7       1.5          2.2
Implement Policies and Programs
Total Base Costs                                6.7      7.8          14.5
Physical Contingencies                          0.2      0.4           0.5
Price Contingencies                             0.3      0.5           0.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                             7.1      8.7          15.8
FINANCING PLAN
(in US$ million)
IDA                                                                     11.5
Government                                                               4.3
TOTAL                                                                   15.8
Estimated Credit Disbursements
(in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
Annual                0.6       2.3       3.1       2.7       2.9       0.8
Cumulative            0.6       2.9       6.0       8.7       10.7      11.5



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          Realizing that low educational attainment of the population combined with a shortage
of skilled labor in specific sectors is a serious bottleneck to successful implementation of their long-
term strategy to promote economic growth, the Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) has requested
IDA's assistance in financing a project designed to improve the quality and effective utilization of the
country's human resources.  In a Human Resource Development Strategy presented at a Donor
Round Table in November 1992, the Government proposed enhancing the skills of the active
population in three ways. First, by providing a minimum of six-years of basic education to all
children through the introduction of an integrated basic education cycle (EBI).  Second, by
improving the quality and extending the coverage of secondary education. Third, by improving the
relevance and quality of the training system, in conjunction with improving the efficiency of the
labor markets. The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing this strategy by
supporting the infrastructural, pedagogic, and managerial improvements needed to achieve universal
primary enrollment and by developing a more effective and coherent training system linked to
employment demand.
1.2          The proposed project would be the second IDA-financed operation in support of the
development of basic education in Cape Verde. It would be the first to support training and labor
market operations. It would extend to all Cape Verdean children the benefits of the investments of
the first operation (Primary Education Upgrading Project Cr. 1853-CV, SDR 3.3 million, 1988)
which piloted a revised curriculum  and supporting services designed to provide Cape Verde's
children with the basic competencies necessary to be active members of society. In light of the
requirements of the economy in terms of technicians and mid-level management, the proposed
project provides incentives and assistance to strengthen the training system to better respond to
market demands for specific skills and upgrade the quality and relevance of technical education. The
project was developed by the Government through extensive discussions with the private sector,
IDA, and other donors over the course of 18 months and supported by an advance from a project
preparation facility (PPF).
1.3    Total project costs are estimated at US$15.8 million equivalent, net of taxes and duties, of
which IDA would finance US$11.5 million.  The Government of Cape Verde will contribute
US$4.3million equivalent, which would include US$3.5 million to cover incremental teachers'
salaries and direct budgetary support from the Government of the Netherlands and the Calouste
Gulbenkian Foundation under already secured arrangements.



2
11. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.    Country Background
5
2.1           The Republic of Cape Verde consists of an archipelago of ten islands (nine inhabited)
about 650 km off the coast of Senegal. Poor natural resources, adverse climatic conditions, and
limited domestic markets have created austere conditions for the estimated 344,000 inhabitants (1990
census) and encouraged a strikingly high level of emigration.  There are twice as many Cape
Verdeans living abroad as are resident in the country, and their remittances account for nearly 20%
of GNP. Despite the physical constraints, Cape Verde has the best social indicators in the Sahelian
region and among the best in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Life expectancy is 65 years (compared
with 52 for SSA), primary school gross enrollment (ages 7-12) is 85% (68% for SSA), adult literacy
rate is 52% (49% for SSA) and infant mortality is around 55 per 1,000 live births (104 for SSA).
These indicators, however, hide wide differences in poverty levels between islands and between rural
and urban areas. These differences are primarily due to the concentration of economic opportunities
in the two major towns (Praia and Mindelo).
B.    Macroeconomic Conditions and Policies
2.2           After independence in 1975, the GOCV adopted a dominant entrepreneurial role in
the economy to make up for the weak and small private sector. Prudent economic management
combined with substantial investments in social services, infrastructure, and public enterprises
providing distribution, communication, and transportation services, contributed to an average 6%
annual growth in GDP from  1980-88.  However, by 1988, world-wide economic stagnation,
persistent drought, and a decline in demand for international maritime and aviation services
contributed to a slowdown in economic growth. Structural deficiencies resulting from Government
intervention (limited competition, limited private investment, a weak financial system) prevented the
economy from responding adequately to the situation. As a result, the Government began to rethink
its development policies. Chief among these was political reform, and a transition to multi-party
democracy was peacefully accomplished with the election of the opposition party (Movement for
Democracy - MpD) in early 1991. The new Government has begun to implement the objective of
minimizing the Government's role in the economy.
2.3           To promote the emergence of the private sector and ensure future sustainable
growth, the Government is withdrawing from direct intervention in the market place. Reforms are
being introduced to: (i) streamline public administration and reduce unwieldy administrative
procedures; (ii) transfer the government's portfolio of public enterprises to the private sector; (iii)
develop the government's policy-making and analytical capacity; and (iv) limit government
investment to basic infrastructure and social services. These reforms are accompanied by policies to
promote specific sectors that take advantage of the country's resources; fisheries, tourism, export-
processing and services (trans-shipment, maritime, aviation, and, in the future, data processing,
teleport and off-shore banking). These actions place a heavy demand on the country's abundant but
insufficiently trained human resources and on the inefficient labor markets. Improvements in the
capacities of the workers and in the labor market are necessary to support the country's
macroeconomic program.



3
C.    Population. Employment, and the Labor Force
2.4            Population. The population of Cape Verde, estimated at 344,000 in the 1990 census,
is growing at a rate of 2.7%, but at only 1.5%  if adjusted for emigration.  As a result of this
population growth and high level of emigration (mostly young men), 64.5% of the population is
under 25 and women represent 53%  of the population.  Inter-island migration is also high,
particularly to urban areas which are growing at annual rate of nearly 4%.  Over half of the
population lives on the main island, Santiago, with nearly 75,000 in Praia, the administrative capital.
2.5           Employment. The active labor force is estimated to be about 135,000, equivalent to
73%  of the active population (ages 15 to 65).  Unemployment reached 27%  in 1991 and is
structural. The primary sector is small (24% of employed population). Prolonged drought and high
seasonality has created severe under-employment in agriculture. Fishing is largely artisanal. The
secondary sector is also small (26%), although infrastructure development and private construction is
contributing to the growth of informal employment in this sector. The tertiary sector is the basis of
the economy and the most dynamic sector, employing 33% of the active population and contributing
60% to GDP (1991). Commerce and transportation services provide the bulk of jobs, with banking
and tourism-related services also providing employment opportunities.
Distribution of Employment and GDP by sector (1991)
% of        Contribution
Employed     Employment        to GDP
Primary             26,000               24             15
Secondary           27,600              26             20
Construction       21,300              20             10
Manufacturing       6,300               6             10
Tertiary            34,900               33             60
11,500              11             13
Administration
Commerce           11,700               11            20
Transport           6,400               6              12
Other               5,300               5             15
Undefined           19,000               18              a
(informal
sector)
TOTAL              107 500              100           95b
In addition         27,000
unemployed
a: not determined  h: Indirect taxes represent 5% of GDP
Source: Government Census (1990); Updated Economic Note, AFSCO (1992); Emploi et
Marche du Travail (au Cap Vert, Harold Lubell (1993)
2.6           Labor Ouality. It is estimated that 26.5%  of the active workforce has less than a
primary education, 51 % has completed only primary, and a further 3.5% graduated from adult
literacy programs. About 6% have completed the lower secondary education cycle (Grade 9), only
2% completed the upper secondary cycle (Grade 12), and a mere 1% have a tertiary degree.
Illiteracy and low educational attainment are prevalent among rural and older workers, but even in
the urban and industrial areas there is a lack of middle and higher level skills. This is reflected in an
acute shortage of qualified candidates for managerial, marketing and technical positions.  In
response, public and private sector enterprises such as Cabnave (boat repair) or Shell Oil (fuel
supply) train their workers (including accountants and managers) on-the-job.  However, the high
costs and risk involved discoLurage all but a few large firms from undertaking such training.



4
2.7           The generally low  quality of the labor force can be attributed to structural
inefficiencies in the education and training system and in the labor market. Until recently primary
education was divided into two cycles (para. 2.11) with 40% of students dropping out after the first
4-year cycle.  As a result of the inappropriate and poor quality of primary curriculum  and
insufficient secondary school places, less than 20% of the relevant age-group attends secondary
schools. Opportunities for secondary technical education (one school) and training (four public and
three private institutions offering places for 2,200 trainees annually) are limited.  Apart from  a
secondary teacher training school and maritime training school, higher and professional education is
undertaken overseas. However, management of the scholarship program is weak and many students
fail to return.
2.8            Labor Sutpply.  Until reforms in the education and training system  are fully
implemented (para. 2.15 and 2.16 ), two-thirds of labor market entrants will continue to be primary
school completers. Broad estimates suggest that there will be about 6,000 new entrants to the labor
market annually from 1994. Initially, 4,000 would enter after the end of the primary cycle (Of the
estimated 8,000 students in Grade Six, 3,000 would continue to secondary school. Of the remaining
5,000, approximately 1,000 girls are not expected to seek employment outside of the home). About
800 would join the workforce after completion of the lower cycle of secondary education, 500 after
the end of secondary education, and 300 from the technical education and training system. The
remaining 400 would consist of returning emigrants and scholarship recipients.
2.9            Labor Demand.  Between 1980 and 1990 less than 2,100 jobs were created each
year, with most of these being temporary jobs in the civil service and public-sector financed
infrastructure projects. However, it is estimated that private and public sector investments, natural
attrition of the labor force and emigration could combine to create between 3,000 and 3,500 jobs
annually over the next decade. The job creation projections provide an order of magnitude and are
indicative only.  Public and private sector investments would create an estimated 2,250 positions
annually. The primary sector is expected to remain small, with only 150 jobs created annually in
fishing (primarily domestic fleet expansion). The secondary sector would create 1,500 positions
annually, approximately 800 in construction (temporary) and 700 in light manufacturing for export
and artisanal production. The formal tertiary sector would create 600 jobs annually, 350 in airport,
financial and information processing services and 250 in tourism related activities (including
restaurants).  The natural attrition of the labor force (equivalent to 3%  of the estimated 20,000
members of the labor force over the age of 35) would generate a further 600 vacancies each year.
Because of tighter restrictions from recipient countries, traditional emigration would no longer
represent a major source of employment.  However, specific contracts negotiated with recipient
countries could generate from  500 to 1,000 overseas employment opportunities annually.  The
informal sector and Government-sponsoredl work fronts (food-for-work programs) would continue to
absorb the excess lahor supply.
2.10           Labor Markets.  In addition to a problem  of aggregate demand for employment
(about 4,000 positions for 6,000 labor market entrants), there are structural imbalances in the labor
market. Labor laws and regulations are complex and although they do not seriously restrain labor
mobility, employers complain about arbitrary application of rules when retrenching workers. As one
of the larger employers, the Government has been setting standards for wages including minimum
wages. Only recently has the Government conferred with employers and unions to start a process of
collective bargaining. Profit margins in the private sector and labor productivity are low, so there is
pressure to lower minimum wages and allow greater flexibility in remuneration and benefit levels.
The Government, lacking capacity to analyze employment regulations and conditions, has not been
successful in convincing employers to form a partnership to work to improve productivity, training



5
and finding a balanced approach to remuneration and benefit issues. In addition, lack of media and
geographic isolation limits the flow of information on employment opportunities and distorts the
flow of labor (encourages migration to saturated urban areas). Job information remains restricted to
specific islands and small networks of families and friends who guard information about the few
available formal sector jobs. The informal sector is rapidly expanding but is not well monitored and
there is a high and irregular outflow of low- and semi-skilled workers due to emigration
(construction, maritime, housekeepers).
D.    The Education and Training System
1.     Existing System
2.11          The Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES) is responsible for formal, non-formal
and technical education. The formal education system consists of six years of primary education
divided into a four-year elementary cycle (Elementary Basic Education - EBE: Grades 1-4) followed
by a two-year complementary cycle (Complementary Basic Education - EBC: Grades 5-6), six years
of secondary education divided into a three-year general cycle (General Secondary Education - ESG:
Grades 7-9) followed by a two-year complementary cycle (Complementary Secondary Education -
ESC: Grades 10-Il) and a final preparatory year for further studies. The only local post-secondary
education takes place in the secondary-teacher training school. Other post-secondary education is
available through Government and donor-funded overseas scholarships. In SY92, 56,900 students
were enrolled in 363 EBE schools, 16,600 enrolled in 25 EBC schools, 12,500 in nine secondary
schools.  Annex 2 provides statistical data on the coverage, enrollments by municipality, and
efficiency of the system. The private sector, including non-government organizations, offers pre-
school facilities and limited primary and secondary general education facilities. Exact enrollments
and achievements are not known because of the lack of monitoring capacity in the MOES.
2.12          Teacher training is carried out by the Pedagogic Institute (IP) in two poles: Praia and
Mindelo. A decree issued in February 1992 defined the structure of the IP and assigned to it, in
addition to the pre-service training task, the responsibility for in-service training and participation in
the design of curriculae and pedagogical materials as well as the organization of experimental and
evaluation activities. The decree also provided for the increase of the entry level of the students,
who must be selected among those who passed to tenth grade. Graduation is granted after two years
of courses in the IP, followed by one year of practical teaching in a class. Training of the first
promotion comprising 120 students, selected under these new criteria, started on October 1992. The
MOES-administered Industrial and Commercial Training school in Mindelo (ECIM), offers three
years of technical training to 1,200 students starting at Grade 7, in general administration and
commerce (which can be followed by a two year accounting course), mechanical, electrical and
construction trades, and handicrafts (concentrating on graphic arts, weaving, sculpture and
ceramics). A second technical school, under construction in Praia, is expected to open in 1995 and
would offer similar streams including advanced studies in technical and commercial areas. Private
sector technical education is provided by a Technical Training Center, established by a dozen
teachers from the ECIM, which offers the same courses as ECIM but with less restrictive entrance
requirements.
2.13          The current education system has structural problems. Less than 50%  of students
entering Grade I complete six years of schooling and only 25% continue to lower secondary
education. The primary cause of this inefficiency is a primary structure that provides basic literacy
and numeracy skills for four years (EBE) and then prematurely introduces secondary curriculum and
teaching techniques in Grades 5 and 6 (EBC). In addition to the inequity of the system, students are
not well prepared for the change and, consequently, dropout from Grades 4 to 6 is around 35%. At



6
the end of EBE, students are expected to transfer to separate EBC schools to conclude the primary
cycle. There are few of these schools and they are concentrated in urban areas, often a prohibitive
distance for rural children to attend. Because there is no tertiary education in Cape Verde, the
secondary cycle is final. It does not adequately prepare students for either the labor market or
continuing education overseas. The science and mathematics content of the curriculum is weak and
the end-of-cycle qualification must be supplemented with an additional year of schooling to be
recognized internationally. The inequality in the system is further reinforced; some islands have no
secondary school, and only three islands having an upper-secondary cycle.
2.14          Introduction of a unified six-year primary cycle. In order to provide all children
with six years of basic education, improve the curriculum to provide students with more relevant life
skills, refocus the community toward the school, and increase the efficiency of resource use, the
Government has decided to introduce a reform which would replace the two cycles of primary
education--common to former Portuguese colonies--with a unified six-year cycle (known as EBI -
Ensino Basico Integrado), the most common primary education structure worldwide. The reform
includes restructuring the curriculum and its content, and fundamentally changes the manner in
which primary education is provided. School attendance would be compulsory throughout the cycle
(previously compulsory for four years only), all six grades would be held in one physical location
(as opposed to separate schools for Grades 5 and 6), and teachers would be required to teach all
subjects in all six grades (as opposed to subject specialists in Grades 5 and 6).  New teaching
techniques, including teaching Portuguese as a second language in the first two Grades, and the use
of locally available materials as teaching aids would be introduced. Preparation for this transition
was begun under the ongoing IDA-supported project (Cr. 1853-CV), in which the new curriculum
was developed and tested, new textbooks were written, and training programs were designed for all
teachers. In comparative tests of a pilot program, students in EBI classes consistently outperformed
students in the existing system. The new system will be introduced nationwide, with Grades 1, 3,
and 5 in September 1994 and Grades 2, 4, and 6 in September 1995.
2.15          Restructuration of secondary education.  The unified six-year primary cycle will
sharply increase the number of primary school graduates and subsequent demand for secondary
education. In anticipation of this demand, the Government has, with assistance from the African
Development Bank, begun to construct additional secondary schools and improve the science and
mathematics content of the curriculum. In addition, the Government has adopted a new secondary
structure that would replace the existing three years of lower secondary general or technical, and two
years upper secondary general with a structure comprised of a two year general cycle, followed by a
four year academic or technical cycle. The Government has begun national discussions on the option
of introducing a technical/commercial option at end of the first cycle of secondary education (para.
2.24)
2.16          Vocational training is offered by four specialized vocational schools run by technical
ministries, two NGO-run vocational schools and four small private for-profit centers. The Center
for Public Administration Training (CENFA), financed by the Ministry of Public Administration and
Parliamentary Affairs, offers courses for about 200 public sector employees annually in computers,
public relations, accounting, secretarial and local administration.  The Professional Training and
Upgrading Institute (IFAP), financed under the budget of the Secretary of State for Employment,
offers courses in English, typing, bookkeeping, administration and secretarial skills for about 220
private sector individuals. Given the overlapping training objectives, the Government plans to merge
CENFA and IFAP into one school (National School of Management and Administration - INAG).
The Agricultural Training Center (INIDA), financed by the Ministry of Fisheries, Agriculture and
Rural Animation, trains about 120 agricultural technicians and extension agents annually.  A
Maritime Training School (CFN), administered by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport,



7
offers four years of training leading to the equivalent of a baccalaureate diploma programs for about
150 to prepare engineering officers, bridge officers, communications officers and planning and
administration managers for the maritime transport sector. In addition, the Manuel Olimpio (Praia)
and Hugo Barros (Mindelo) Nursing Schools, under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, train
about 50 qualified midwives and nurses annually. The two NGO centers provide training for youth
in carpentry, basic mechanics and artisanal production. Two private schools provide undergraduate
courses in accounting and law in cooperation with overseas Universities. Two small computer firms
offer basic software training classes.
2.17          In-house industrial training is provided by the National Bank and National Airlines
(TACV), usually through correspondence courses with affiliated institutions abroad, and by
Cabnave, a large boat repair yard that provides extensive upgrading courses (8 weeks of theory
followed by 8 months of on-the-job training) for its employees in boat repair and maintenance. In
addition, the Leeward Islands Commercial Association (ACS), formed in 1918 and now with 120
members, has hired 10 temporary teachers to run courses in bookkeeping, computers, marketing,
import/export management, and English for its members and their employees.
2.     Cost and Financing
2.18          In 1993, budgeted total recurrent expenditures for education were ESC 1.3 billion
(US$15.8 million), equivalent to 18% of the Government's recurrent budget, compared to 15% in
1986. Of the recurrent education budget, 41.6% was allocated to EBE, 20.3% to EBC (i.e. 62% to
primary education), 19.4% to secondary schools, 3.7% to other institutions and scholarships, and
15% to central and regional administration. Of the recurrent budget, personnel salaries represent
94%  of expenditures.  Expenditures per student, excluding central and regional administrative
expenditures, are approximately $107 for EBE, $187 for EBC, and $237 for secondary education.
For EBE, this represents a three-fold increase in per-student expenditures since 1986, and is a
reflection of increased  primary teacher salaries.   Government investment expenditures and
counterpart funding to donor projects were ESC 140 million (US$1.7 million). Total donor support
to MOES in 1993, including direct budgetary support was ESC 1.22 billion (US$14.9 million) of
which 84% was in the form of grants.
2.19          Budgeted recurrent expenditures for the Secretary of State for Employment (SSE),
before its dissolution, were ESC 8 million (US$0.1 million). The two employment centers are
financed under the Department of Labor (DL), which was allocated ESC 14 million (US$0.2
million). Combined, the budgets of the SSE and DL represented 9% of the recurrent budget of the
Ministry of Justice and Labor.
3.     Issues in Education
a.     Current schooling arrangements are inappropriate for EBI
2.20          Unsuitable infrastructure.  The current school infrastructure does not meet the
pedagogic and enrollment needs of the EBI structure. Schools would need to be modified to provide
all six grades of primary education in one location. Seventy percent of the existing 363 EBE schools
(Grades 1-4) have one or two classrooms, whereas the average size of the 25 EBC schools (Grades
5-6) is 12 classrooms, with I 1 having more than 16 classrooms.  Existing schools need to be
restructured and new classrooms to be built to adapt available school capacity to the size of the
population of school age. As a basis for this restructuring, the Government has developed a school
map which also identifies 154 rented classrooms that should be replaced. The majority of these
rented rooms provide an inappropriate pedagogic environment, and are a drain on the MOES limited



8
recurrent budget. A number of core schools that would serve as focal points for school clusters
would need additional administrative buildings.
2.21          Shortage of textbooks and teachers' guides. The existing basic education textbooks
are produced or purchased off-the-shelf by MOES.  They are sold in bookshops and regional
education directorates at prices ranging from 44 to 178 CV Esc. (US$0.54 to US$2.1). However,
the current retail system is inadequate to supply all children with books: many students do not have
access to bookshops (especially in rural areas) and, of those who do, many cannot afford to purchase
books. During SY92/93, the MOES decided to start a cost recovery scheme by opening a bank
account managed by a three-person committee, in which proceeds from the selling of textbooks to
private bookshops and through regional education directorates were deposited. The limited revenue
was so far used for editorial work and distribution rather than reprinting costs, resulting in an
inadequate supply. A new system is necessary to assure a regular supply of books.
2.22          Inappropriate qualifications of existing teaching force. The new EBI curriculum is
organized around four subject groups (Portuguese, Mathematics, Integrated Sciences, and Artistic
Expressions) to be taught in Grades 1-6. None of the existing teaching force (2,960) is qualified to
teach these subjects in all six grades because they have either been trained to teach only in Grades I
to 4 (2,120 former EBE teachers) or because they have been trained as subject specialists in Grades
5 and 6 (740 former EBC teachers). Both categories require training in content and methodology to
be able to teach the entire EBI curriculum.
b.     Technical secondary education produces graduates of low quality
2.23          With financial support from the AfDB and other donors, the one technical school,
ECIM, is now equipped to provide basic technical and commercial skills in core occupations.
However, a low level of entry for technical education reduces the effectiveness of these investments.
ECIM admits graduates from primary education (completion of Grade 6) who fail to qualify or gain
access to a general secondary school. The young students need remedial general education which
reduces curriculum time committed to technical and scientific subjects and subsequently reduces the
skills and trainability of the graduates.  Moreover, the technical, and to a lesser extent, the
commercial subjects, attempt to prepare trainees for formal modern sector jobs of which few exist
and over 90% of technical students return to general secondary education rather than finding
employment in the skills for which they were trained. Since the cost of equipment, materials and
technical professors is high, the unit cost for technical students is estimated at five times that for
general education students, but in the three-year course, 80% of the first year and nearly half of the
following two year's curriculum is general education rather than technical subjects. In view of the
low relevance and external efficiency, it is generally agreed that ECIM's programs need to change.
2.24          The implementation of a plan to restructure general secondary education is being
supported by the AfDB (para 2.15). In conjunction with this plan, the Government has embarked on
a comprehensive review of its technical education program. Given the nature of the Cape Verdean
decision-making process, a plan would be developed in conjunction with members of the business
community and other social partners. The draft plan, discussed and agreed upon, in principle, with
the  Bank, would  focus  on:  (i)  converting  the  trade-specific  training  courses  into  a
technical/commercial stream providing a general preparation to be complemented by on-the-job or
job-specific training after completion of the secondary cycle; (ii) reducing the number of students in
the stream to be in line with the demands of the labor market; (iii) introducing admission standards
to the technical stream including a selection exam to be offered on completion of Grade 8 (end of
first cycle of secondary education); and (iv) introducing certification similar and recognizably
comparable to international institutions (e.g. polytechnics in Portugal or Brazil).



9
4.     Issues in Training and Employment
a.     Structural imbalances in the labor market
2.25          The supply of mostly unskilled labor, far exceeds demand, and despite the high level
of unemployment (27%), the private sector (and government) cannot find workers with the right
skills and competencies, because the educational attainment of the workforce is low (para 2.6).
Technical education and training can prepare for employment and upgrade skill levels, but the
system depends on efficient labor market institutions for employment information, placement and
incentives for skill development.  The formal sector is constrained by a rigid wage structure
determined by a legacy of Government wage-setting in a public-sector dominated economy. There is
a near complete absence of labor market information which impedes individual's job search. The
two small employment centers (5 staff) in Mindelo and Praia lack organizational and management
capacity to collect and analyze information to match job seekers with employer demand. They have
few resources (human, financial, and logistical) and are little used by either employers or job
seekers. They do not provide counseling services, have limited knowledge of training opportunities
and are ill-equipped, in terms of materials and personnel, to provide advice on necessary skills
upgrading to match potential applicants with jobs prospective. Their limited geographic coverage
combined with difficulty of inter-island communication constrains their ability to gather and
disseminate information on available opportunities. Job information remains restricted to specific
islands and small networks of family and friends.
b.     Unresponsive training system
2.26          Presently, the level of training of new entrants to the work force, as well as of
employed workers, is low. The training system is small, not responsive to demand, and there is
limited diversity in the programs offered by training institutions. The institutions are relatively well-
endowed with trainers and equipment, but the relevance of, and demand for, the courses offered
varies considerably. Two of four public centers supply skills training to specific sectors of the
economy (agriculture and maritime), although, with the right incentives, they could adapt their
existing programs to other demands on a temporary basis and sufficient autonomy. However, the
public centers continue to offer the same courses to a declinir.g number of trainees. As publicly-
funded centers, they lack the incentive to adjust to demand, and since the labor exchanges have been
ineffective (para 2.23) they have no access to information about labor market conditions or job
opportunities, essential to decide which training to offer.
2.27          The small private sector could have a capacity to adapt to the changing demands for
training and to expand, but it has been limited by the relatively high cost of providing training and a
lack of labor market information on which to base decisions.  NGO vocational training centers,
which focus on unemployed youth, provide practical hands-on training, placement services, and
some assistance to self-employment. The courses in these centers are of long duration because they
also provide remedial academic training. The centers also have a potential capacity to design and
implement programs for informal sector enterprises, women and unemployed youth, but the
relationship between training centers and existing businesses is weak, which leads to an inadequate
use of training center's capacities to upgrade workers' skills. Legal statute limits the activities to
teaching time of training staff to 18 hours per week, without providing for time to contact and
establish relationships with businesses or provide consulting services on an ad hoc basis. While
many businesses have been reluctant to acknowledge the benefits of training for their employees,
there is increasing awareness and demand for on-the-job training services (para. 2.16). For the
majority of the training centers, management and administration is weak.  The concepts of



lo
operational budgets, curriculum acaptation and service to businesses are not understood and thus not
applied. However, the public and private training centers could be used more effectively if: (i) they
are provided with incentives to become responsive to demand; (ii) employers become more involved
in program design and financing; and (iii) labor market information is available.
5.     Issues in Management and Coordination
a.     Inefficient planning and implementation capacity within MOES
2.28          Implementation capacity of Ministry of Education Directorates is weak.  The
delineation of tasks and responsibilities among Directorates is unclear. The absence of well-defined
responsibilities has led to the creation of two project coordination units, notably for the primary
education upgrading project (IDA) and the secondary education project (AfDB), which are physically
placed outside of the Ministry and are using the resources at their disposal to become implementing
units. The MOES is overly centralized which impedes its ability to provide effective administrative
and pedagogic support to schools. The regional education offices, which are to take on greater
responsibility in accordance with the Government-mandated deconcentration of administrative power
to local levels, have not been given well-defined tasks and have limited resources.  The central
control of schools by the MOES and project units has reduced community involvement in schools.
Finally, at all levels of the MOES, administrative skills are weak, since most of the staff are trained
teachers and not administrators.
2.29          The MOES is ccmposed of: the Departments of Education (DGE) and Non-formal
Education (DGEX), which provide operational support to schools and literacy programs through
nine regional offices; an Inspectorate (IG) responsible for supervision; and an Administrative
Departments (DGA) and a Studies and Planning Office (GEP) that provide technical support. In
addition, two affiliated autonomous institutions administer overseas scholarships and school feeding
programs. The MOES faces four major constraints to effectively implementing its programs: (i)
there is substantial duplication of responsibilities among central Departments, notably school
support, deployment and training of teachers; (ii) the MOES is overly centralized, and the
Government has decided to decentralize administrative (promotion and deployment of teachers) and
pedagogic (control of pedagogic advisors, promotion of students) responsibilities to regional offices.
However, the regional offices have only a few staff who are poorly trained in administrative
responsibilities; (iii) temporary Project Implementation Units have assumed implementing roles in
place of the responsible Departments weakening the capacities of those Departments; and (iv)
information on students, schools, and teachers is not well managed. The GEP has begun to develop
a school map which was used to define the need for additional classrooms and training of teachers,
but it needs to be integrated into a permanent system to annually collect and analyze information.
b.     Weak  coordination  of training  and  employment and  labor market
institutions
2.30          Technical and vocational training has traditionally been undertaken with little
planning  and coordination of the different programs run by the public and private sector
organizations. There has been no coherent Government strategy for the evolution of the role of
training in the economy, and no institution to develop policies that create a favorable environment
for the labor market. In 1992, the Cabinet of the Secretary of State for Employment (SSE) was
created under the Ministry of Justice and Labor to oversee and coordinate vocational and
professional training and its links with the labor market. In January 1994, these functions were
transferred to an Institute for Employment and Training (IET) in a new Ministry for Labor, Youth
and Social Affairs. The IET is expected to coordinate training with employment, manage the staff at



Ii
two employment centers, and take responsibility for policy analysis and relations with employers.
However, the IET is a weak, underfunded organization, without full-time professional staff to
evaluate and coordinate training programs and manage employment centers. It has yet to develop a
system to collect, analyze and disseminate information on training and the labor market. There is no
effective system responsible for providing the Government with policy advice on the development of
national training and employment policies and strategies.
E.    Government Strategv
2.31          Key elements of the Government's medium to long-term strategy to promote economic
gro,wth are to foster private sector development and promote sectors that best exploit the country's human
resources (fishing, tourism, and services). To this end, the Government proposed, in accordance with the
Human Resources Development Strategy presented at a Donor Round Table held in November 1992, to
enhance the lower and medium-level skills of the active population and the productivity of its labor force
in three ways, First, by providing a minimum of six years of basic education to all children through the
introduction of an integrated basic education cycle (EBI).  Second, by improving the quality and
extending the coverage of secondary education. Third, by improving the relevance and quality of the
vocational and tcchnical training system, in conjunction with improving the efficiency of the labor
markets.
2.32          The Government strategy is described in a letter of sector development  (Annex 1)
that includes a five year action plan and indicators and targets to measure progress in achieving
qualitative and quantitative objectives of the project. The contents of this letter were reviewed
during appraisal. The Letter and indicators have been agreed upon at negotiations, and adopted by
tht Government prior to Board presentation (para. 6.3 a.).. At negotiations, the Government gave
assurances (para. 6.2 a.) that it will publish, by July 31, 1995, a ministerial decree to implement the
policies of compulsory education for six grades and automatic promotion within cycles.  The
proposed project would support the Government's strategy by financing infrastructural, pedagogic
and managerial improvements needed to introduce EBI nationally, reform secondary technical
education and to promote a flexible and coherent training system with better links to the labor
market.
F.    The Bank Group's Role
2.33          Rationale for IDA Involvement. Cape Verde faces a difficult development agenda.
There are few economies of scale in production, infrastructure or services provided to the domestic
market. IDA's economic report of June 1993, on Cape Verde and the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) which was reviewed by the Board in March 1993, outlines IDA's objectives and priorities to
support the Government.  Long-term  poverty alleviation, consolidating and improving on the
remarkable achievements in social indicators, financial sector development and infrastructure
improvements are major objectives. The strategy rests on five building blocks: (i) building public
and private sector institutions to promote private sector growth; (ii) addressing long-term human
resource issues; (iii) removing infrastructure bottlenecks; (iv) helping Cape Verde integrate into the
regional and world economy: and (v) increasing the efficiency of public resource management. The
proposed project forms an integral part of this strategy by strengthening human resources and
removing bottlenecks to private sector development especially through: (i) targeting training
programs to better respond to market demands: (ii) supporting ongoing restructuring measures of the
primary education sector; and (iii) increasing the quality of general and technical secondary
education.



12
2.34          Lessons learned from Previous Proiects. This project was designed on the basis of
lessons learned from seven previous IDA-supported operations in Cape Verde, the ongoing education
sector project, and education projects from both within and outside the Region. The design is in line
with policies expressed in the Bank sector policy papers on primary education and on technical
education and vocational training. Other than the Port of Praia Project that was implemented ahead
of schedule, IDA-financed projects in Cape Verde were delayed as a result of poor coordination
among implementing agencies, procurement and disbursement difficulties associated with
unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, and weak accounting. Inter-agency coordination has improved
with the creation of a Ministry for Economic Coordination and would be strengthened by a project
coordinator in this Ministry to oversee project activities. Standard bidding documents would be used
and, building on the base of a disbursement seminar for project coordinators held in Lisbon
(November 1993), a further seminar on procurement and disbursement would be held after project
effectiveness. A computerized accounting system would be established by project effectiveness with
support from specialized assistance. The project expands upon the achievements of the ongoing
education project, especially in the design of teacher training and the publishing and printing of
textbooks. The school construction component is based on adapted standard designs and mechanisms
used in other Sahelian countries. By strengthening basic education, introducing applied technical
non-job-specific subjects in secondary technical education, and by supporting on-the-job training, the
project emphasizes Bank policy for the training sector.
2.35          Donor Assistance and Coordination.  Cape Verde receives support from a large
number of bilateral donors and NGOs. During the preparation of this project, IDA has been careful
to develop a program that takes into account existing and future donor contributions to the education
and training sectors. The following donors agreed to provide budgetary support to the Government
to offset their counter-part contribution: (a) the Gulbenkian Foundation, to assist the development of
teacher training modules, evaluation systems, and strengthening the central administration; (b) the
Netherlands, to support the construction of 60 classrooms in 1995. The following donors have
expressed support for the policy content of the project and are exploring financing possibilities
through direct budgetary support: (a) Germany, for school construction in Fogo; (b) Switzerland, for
the development of micro-enterprises; (c) USAID, for the training fund; and (d) Austria for an
employment center. The AfDB has supported secondary school construction in the past, and will
support quality improvements in secondary education in a future operation under preparation. In
addition, UNESCO, UNICEF and the WFP provide significant support to school feeding programs.
In training. and employment, the European Development Bank is supporting the construction of a
technical school in Praia (para. 2.12), and has agreed to the proposed policy for technical education.
In addition, Portuguese. Austrian, Swiss, and German bilateral agencies provide limited support for
labor market analysis and small job-creation programs.  The Government will coordinate these
interventions in training and employment through a National Advisory Council for Employment and
Training (NACET) to be established under the project.
Ill. TIIE PRO.!ECT
A.    Project Objeclives and Scope
3.1    Ohiectives. The proposed project would be a specific investment credit operating within an
agreed policy framework established in the Policy letter and designed with the specific development
objectives to (a) achieve universal primary enrollment by year 1999, while maintaining equity between
boys and girls, by providing a minimum of six years of basic education to all children through the
introduction of an integrated basic education cycle (EBI), (b) increase the skill levels of labor market



'3
entrants and the productivity of the workforce by developing a more effective and coherent training
system linked to employment demand through support to demand driven and on-the-job training
programs and involvement of the private sector in training activities and policy making, and (c)
enhance the institutional capacity to develop and implement policies and programs in education,
training and the labor market by supporting the Ministry of Education through the reinforcement of its
planning, implementation and managerial capacity at the central and regional levels, and supporting the
Ministry of Labor through the strengthening of its capacity to monitor training and labor market.
Progress in achieving the project's objectives would be assessed against monitoring indicators,
developed and agreed upon with the Government, which include annual targets for teacher recruitment
and deployment, , textbook printing and distribution, implementation of quality surveys and sectoral
reforms, and apprenticeship and training programs.
3.2    Project Scope.  To achieve the above objectives, the project would finance an investment
program to: (a) establish nationwide the integrated basic education system nationwide by: (i) upgrading
the primary school infrastructure through a classroom construction and equipment and rehabilitation
program, (ii) upgrading and deploying primary school teachers, and (iii) establishing a sustainable
textbook supply through the setting of an efficient distribution system  and the establishment of a
textbook revolving fund where proceeds from the sale of books and the Government subsidies will be
placed and used exclusively for financing of reprinting services; (b) improve the relevance of technical
education and training by (i) improving the quality and relevance of technical secondary education
through the upgrading of entrance requirement, the development of new curricula and upgrading of
technical teachers, (ii) improving the effectiveness of vocational training programs through the
establishment of a Training Support Fund (TSF) to support on-the-job and demand driven training, and
(iii) expanding apprenticeships and professional education programs; and (c) develop the institutional
capacity to design programs and implement policies by: (i) strengthening the planning and
programming capacity of the Ministry of Education at the central and regional levels, (ii) strengthening
the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Labor to monitor training- and employment-related
services, and (iii) supporting project management and coordination.
B.     Project Support
3.3    The proposed project would support the development and implementation of policies and
investments as summarized in the following table:
PROJECT CONIPONENTS
1. ESTABLISH NATIONVII)F TlE I NTEGRATED BASIC EDUCATION SYSTENI (EBI) (US$11.3 million)
(i) upgrade school infrastructure through a classroom construction and rehabilitation program;
(ii) upgrade and deploy primary school teachers; and
(iii) establish a sustainable textbook supply and distribution system;
2. IINPROVE T IIE RELEVANCE OF TECIINICAI. EDUCATION ANI) TRAINING (US$2.1 million)
(i) improve the quality and relevance of technical secondary education;
(ii) improve the effectiveness of training programs; and
(iii) expand apprenticeships and professional education programs; and
3. ENIIANCE TIIE INSTITUTIONAI. CAIPACI'I Y TO DEVELOP ANI) INIPLEMENT POLICIES AND
PROGRANMS (US$2.4 million)
(i) reinforce NIOES planning, implementation and managerial capacity at the central and
regional levels;
(ii) strengthen institutional capacity to monitor training and employment activities; and
(iii) support project coordination.



14
1.     Establish nationwide the Integrated Basic Education System (EBI)
(US$11.3 million)
3.4           Objectives. This component would provide infrastructural and pedagogic support to
the nationwide introduction of universal and compulsory six grade of primary education. To achieve
this would mean increasing enrollment from 75,500 to 80,300 students, resulting a Net Enrollment
Ratio (NER) of 98% in 1999, requiring the construction of 154 new classrooms, and the upgrading
of about 2,500 teachers as well as the recruitment of 560 new qualified teachers. This component
would finance (a) classroom construction, (b) teacher upgrading, and (c) pedagogic materials.
a.     Upgrade school infrastructure through a classroom  construction and
rehabilitation program including the replacement of rented classrooms
(US$6.7 million)
3.5           Scope and Objectives. The objective of this subcomponent is to adapt the primary
school infrastructure to conform with EBI requirements. The project would support this objective
by: (a) building, upgrading, and equipping additional classrooms for EBE schools; (b) replacing
rented classrooms; and (c) restructuring and rehabilitating existing EBC schools.
3.6           Background. Under EBI, all classes for six grades will be held in one school. To
achieve this, the Government would need to add classrooms to rural schools to accommodate Grade
5 and 6 students. The 25 EBC schools, with an average of 12 classes per school, would need to be
converted either to EBI schools or to lower secondary schools. The Government rents 220 rooms,
which are not suited for teaching purposes.  Where land is available, classrooms would be
constructed to replace rented classrooms. Classroom construction in Cape Verde has been of a good
standard, with brick and stone the most commonly used materials, but Government expenditures on
maintenance and rehabilitation have been low.  In addition, skilled stone masons are becoming
scarce. It is estimated that nearly half of the classrooms are in need of repair. Some schools lack
amenities such as sanitary facilities, recreational areas, or canteens to provide school meals.
3.7           Description. The redistribution of students from  EBC to EBI schools, increased
enrollments resulting from the policy of compulsory education and expected population growth,
would require an estimated 154 new classrooms. Using school maps, the MOES has identified EBE
schools which would require additional classrooms to accommodate Grade 5 and 6 students.
Available land adjacent to existing schools would permit the replacement of 146 of the 220 rented
classrooms. IDA would finance the construction of 300 new classrooms , 200 classrooms and the
necessary amenities where they are lacking. Ten EBC schools would be remodeled to accommodate
standard EBI classrooms. The remaining 15 EBC schools would be converted to lower secondary
schools, partly financed by the AfDB.  During the transition period, and before additional
classrooms are constructed to accommodate students, transitional measures, including the grouping
of Grade 5 and 6 students from schools in close proximity, would be implemented. These "pole
schools" have been identified, and will receive priority for classroom construction. A program for
the rehabilitation and conversion of EBC schools, for preparation of standard designs for EBI
classrooms and for managing classroom construction has been developed. The Government has
provided to IDA the names of the sites for classrooms to be constructed in the first year of the
project. The Government has furnished evidence that land is assigned to the project first year
classrooms construction program and provided a five year classroom construction program (para. 6.1
b.).



15
3.8            Project Support. The IDA credit will finance: (a) the construction of 300 classrooms
and amenities (154 additional and 146 to replace rented classrooms); (b) the rehabilitation of 10 EBC
schools; (c) supply and distribution of furniture for 200 classrooms; (d) basic pedagogical supplies
for 250 classrooms; and (e) support to the Administration Department (DGA), in charge of the
implementation of this component, for contract management and site supervision of classroom
construction. The Government would cover the cost of rehabilitating 250 existing classrooms.
b.     Upgrade and deploy primary school teachers (US$3.8 million)
3.9            Scope and Obiectives.  The objective of this subcomponent is to provide the
necessary qualified teachers to support the EBI curriculum.  The project will support: (a) an
assessment of the qualifications of existing primary school teachers; (b) an upgrading program, to be
implemented during calendar years 1995 and 1996, to ensure that all existing teachers are familiar
with EBI curriculum and textbooks; (c) a deployment plan for teachers taking into account existing
qualifications; and (d) the development of core teams of pedagogic advisors to provide continuous
on-the-job training to teachers for the life of the project.
3.10          Background. There are 2,960 primary teachers, of whom 2,120 currently teach all
subjects in Grades 1-4 (EBE) and 740 who teach subject specialties in Grades 5-6 (EBC). All of the
former EBE teachers and about half of the EBC teachers will need to be trained to teach EBI (four
subjects in six grades) and deployed to EBI schools. Training has started for 700 EBE teachers who
will be qualified to teach Grades 1, 3, and 5 in September 1994 (and Grades 2, 4, and 6 in
September 1995). The remaining EBE teachers and half of the EBC teachers will be trained during
1995-6. A survey to evaluate the qualifications of the other half of the EBC teachers and their
willingness to move will be used as a basis for their redeployment to lower secondary schools or
appointment and training as pedagogic advisors.
3.11          As a result of voluntary departures and reclassification to other duties of existing
teachers, about 500 new primary teachers will be needed by September 1996. Teacher requirements
after 1996 will be based on enrollment growth and attrition.  The Pedagogic Institute (IP) will
produce 120 graduate teachers in September 1994, and 210 annually to 1996, sufficient to meet
requirements for September 1996. Output of new teachers will be reduced to an estimated 140 new
teachers annually after 1996, and the excess training capacity will be used for teacher upgrading and
periodic curriculum reviews. A proposal for the recruitment and deployment of teachers has been
finalized during negotiations (para. 6.2 b.), and the Government gave assurances that it will
implement the agreed upon plan.
3.12          Under the ongoing project, a new building for the IP with extensive facilities to
fulfill training and  research functions, was constructed  in Praia.   However, the extent of
collaboration between teaching and research staff remains poorly defined due to the lack of a
comprehensive statute. A revised organizational chart for the IP detailing the functions and staffing
of the various services was reviewed at appraisal and incorporated in texts defining the statute of the
IP. The Government has sent the texts defining the statute of the IP and provided proof that it has
promulgated the statute of the IP. Annual programs to meet pre-service, in-service and research
needs have been developed, and costed. These have been reviewed and found acceptable by IDA.
The Government gave assurances during negotiations (para. 6.2 c.) that it will provide sufficient
resources to cover the annual recurrent budget of the IP.
3.13          Description. The project will complete the upgrading of teachers started under the
ongoing project. By September 1996, all teachers will have received a practical introduction to the



16
curriculum and materials of EBI. Upgrading will take place in regional centers, using a cascade
method of training. Thirty three teams of four EBC teachers will receive initial training, and then
conduct one week seminars for groups of 20 teachers. After providing initial teacher upgrading,
these teams will be seconded to regional delegates as pedagogic advisors. They will provide school-
based instruction to individuals and small groups in subject matter knowledge, lesson design,
classroom management, innovative use of local materials, administration of tests, etc. At the end of
the project, they will be integrated into lower secondary education. A draft profile and qualifications
for the pedagogic advisors was reviewed during appraisal, and a program to appoint and compensate
pedagogic advisors has been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable. The IP will provide pre-
service teacher training to 140 new EBI teachers annually, and annual teacher upgrading programs
which will supplement the school-based support by pedagogic advisors.
3.14           Proiect Support.  The IDA  credit will finance: (a) a teacher upgrading training
program for 1995 and 1996; (b) three-week in-service teacher training programs for 1997-1999; (c)
training of and support to pedagogic advisors; (d) 20 man-months of local specialist services to
support IP staff in the development of in-service training programs; and (e) the local costs of
specialist services to assist in the development of pre-service training modules materials provided by
the Gulbenkian Foundation. The Government will finance the travel costs of participants to in-
service training seminars, and the cost of recruiting new teachers needed during the project.
c.     Establish a sustainable textbook supply and distribution system
(US$0.7 million)
3.15   Objective. This subcomponent aims to ensure that: (a) every pupil has the necessary textbooks
for EBI classes; (b) every teacher has teaching guides; and (c) a system for regular and sustainable
supply of books is established.
3.16   Background. The publishing program of the ongoing project consists of 37 titles (18 textbooks
and 19 teachers' guides) for a total print-run of about 440,000 copies. Its implementation has ieclded the
folloNving results: (a) two titles (Mathematics books for Grades I and 3) were printed at 84,000 copies
through ICB. Some of these books have been used to test the EBI book distribution system during the
school year 1993-94; (b) six textbooks titles and nine guides were printed at 257,500 copies, and
delivered in August 1994; (c) 18 titles (nine textbooks and the corresponding guides) are being tested,
and will be produced under the ongoing project.
3.17   Description. To renew the stock acquired under the ongoing education project, textbooks and
teachers' guides for Grades 1, 3, and 5 \vill be rcprinted in 1997-98, and those for Grades 2. 4, and 6, in
1998-99. Reprinting services \%ill be purchascd through ICB. Half of the books wvill be sold to private
sector retail stores (primarily in Praia and 1indelo. the two largest towns). The other half wvill be sold to
the Cape Verdean Institute of Social Action (ICASE) which wvill rent them to students. The Government
has presented to IDA a draft agreement with ICASE. This agreement defines the responsibility of
ICASE for textbook distribution, describes the rental scheme to be put in place, and indicates the
Government's commitment to provide ICASE with adequate subsidies for the purchase of textbooks.
Proceeds from the sale of books and the Government subsidies will be placed in the established
commercial bank account of the Textbook Revolving Fund (FEE - Fondo Editao Escolar) and left to
accrue over the life of the project. The Government has submitted to IDA for reviev and comment the
draft ministerial decree governing the Textbook Revolving Fund. This decree states that the proceeds
from the sale and the Governmcnt subsidies should be used exclusively for financing the reprinting
services of students' textbooks. It also states that the audit of the Project's accounts wvill include a
review of the Revolving Fund. Annex 4 describes the details of this subcomponent, The Government



' 7
has provided evidence of: (i) the entering into effect of the agreement betwveen the MOES and ICASE,
and (ii) the promulgation of the ministerial decree governing the Textbook Revolving Fund.
3.18   Project Support. The IDA credit would finance: (a) the cost of reprinting 18 textbooks and 19
teacher's guides at a total print-run of 377,500 copies and the delivcrv costs; and (b) the cost of teachers'
reference library sets to be provided in 180 "pole schools".
2.     Improve the Relevance of Technical Education and Training
(US$2.1 million)
3.19          Objectives. The objectives of this component are to increase the skill levels of labor
market entrants and the productivity of the workforce.  To achieve these objectives, the project
would support measures to: (a) improve the relevance and quality of secondary technical education;
(b) address the lack of incentives for skill development, productivity improvement and training for
employment; and (c) provide opportunities for professional education and apprenticeship training.
a.     Improve the quality and relevance of technical secondary  education
(US$0.3 million)
3.20          Obiectives.  This subcomponent would support ongoing reforms to improve the
quality and relevance of secondary education by: (i) upgrading the entrance requirements to technical
streams from completion of primary to completion of lower secondary education; (ii) developing
curricula for the new programs; and (iii) upgrading the technical teachers.
3.21          Background. The technical and commercial programs offered by ECIM  for primary
school leavers are not relevant to the available jobs and only a small percentage of graduates find
employment. The majority return to upper secondary education. As part of the reform of secondary
education, admission to ECIM will be raised from Grade 7 to 9 and the Government is planning to
increase the technical content of the courses to bring the skills development in line with the
requirements of the labor market. The revised admission standards and shorter courses will also be
introduced in the second technical school that is under construction in Praia to serve the islands of
Santiago, Maio, Brava and Fogo. ECIM would continue to serve the Leeward islands. Continuing
skills development would be available though apprenticeship, on-the-job and professional training
programs. The reform of technical education and the link with training are presently under review
by MOES, and a comprehensive proposal will be submitted to IDA no later than 15 months after
project effectiveness.
3.22          Description. A draft plan for the reform of technical secondary education prepared
by MOES was discussed during appraisal. The policy proposals in the plan will be finalized with
special attention to the linkage between academic and technical/commercial education, and will be
adopted by the Government within an agreed upon timetable enabling to start the implementation of
the reform  by October 1996.  On the basis of the approved policies and plans, the MOES will
prepare an action program for the transition from the present system to the one proposed in the plan.
This transition will include: (i) the development of entrance examinations; (ii) revision of the
curricula; identification of learning materials and instructional equipment, if necessary; (iii) in-
service retraining ot teachers, including short in-industry internships; and (iv) establishment of
advisory committees with local employers and the employment centers. The action program will
also include an implementation timetable. The Government has prepared a timetable of activities and
dialogues leading to the development of a revised technical education structure by June 1995, and
new curriculum  and admission standards by June 1996 (para. 6.2 c.).  During negotiations, the



18
Government gave assurances that it will take appropriate regulatory measures to implement the
technical education reform by October 1996 (para. 6.2 f.).
3.23          Proiect Support. The IDA credit will finance: (a) the cost of three man-tnonths of
local specialist services to assist with the preparation of the reform plan and the ECIM's transition
plan; (b) the cost of two workshops to define measures to complement the reform plan; (c) the cost
of purchasing new textbooks and teachers' guides; and (d) procurement of tools and computers.
b.     Improve the effectiveness of training programs (US$0.4 million)
3.24          Obiectives.  This subcomponent would support the Government's objectives to
improve the quality and relevance of training programs, encourage the growth of private sector
training institutions and on-the-job training by private enterprises, and improve the responsiveness of
public training agencies.
3.25          Background.   Public vocational training  centers provide  long  duration  pre-
employment training programs for which there is limited demand (para. 2.26). Because they are
publicly funded, they have little incentive to adapt to demand.  Private training centers are
responsive to market demand, but the cost of their programs is relatively high because training
equipment has to be imported and qualified trainers are rare and thus expensive (para. 2.27). There
is very little on-the-job training, either in the formal or informal sector. In order to promote the
private sector by supplying qualified skilled workers and encourage regional equity in the availability
of opportunities, the Government has decided to provide incentives to training centers to develop
demand-driven training programs.
3.26          Description.  A Training Support Fund (TSF) which has the objective to support
demand-driven training, will be used to finance the costs of training services provided by public and
private providers, including enterprises and NGOs, which meet eligibility criteria established in the
Procedural Manual. The TSF will provide support to: (i) enterprise-based, on-the-job training, and
(ii) demand-driven training programs in public, private and NGO training centers.  On-the-job
training will be supported because enterprise-specific skills are best developed through work
experience and the training costs are usually lower than pre-employment training. Market distortions
in Cape Verde (high cost of training, small private sector and limited information on benefits) have
discouraged the use of on-the-job training. Demand-driven training would be supported because this
method: (i) encourages public-sector institutions to establish links with employers and employment
centers to adjust curriculum, plan staff development, and adjust enrollments; (ii) provides incentives
for the growth of the still-nascent private sector and decentralization of training opportunities
through NGO participation; and (iii) promotes short-term, job-specific training better able to respond
to unexpected demands of the labor market.
3.27          The TSF would be expected to annually finance approximately  12 short-term
vocational training programs with between 15 and 20 trainees. Criteria outlined in the Procedural
Manual will tavor short-term and on-the-job programs that train for identified employment
opportunities (locally or overseas), provide training opportunities for youngsters who do not meet
standard qualifications and who would otherwise be denied training opportunities (NGO-based), and
promote the skills of pre-identified disadvantaged groups (women, unemployed youth).
3.28          The TSF  would  be managed by  an Executive Committee (EC) with  equal
representation from private business, social sectors (Trade union or NGO) and the Government
(Annex 7). Application forms and guidance for training support will be available from the Institute
f JFnipl1ornent ;an(d Training (in the Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Affairs) and the



'9
employment centers and will be prepared jointly by enterprises, other groups or individuals, with the
participating training institutions, with the assistance of the employment centers, if necessary (Annex
1Q). These applications will be evaluated for technical content and compliance with eligibility
criteria outlined in the Procedural Manual and presented to the EC for approval. The first four
requests for TSF financing would be sent to IDA for prior review. It is expected that financial
support will average about US$5,000, with a maximum of US$15,000. The Procedural Manual
specifies cost-sharing, maximum level of subsidy and declining scale, as well as conditions for
liquidation of the TSF. Training contracts from the Fund would be managed by the Component
Coordinator in the Project Coordinating Unit (para. 3.54).  The Government has provided the
statutes for the Executive Committee (EC) and the Procedural Manual for the operation of the TSF,
which have been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.  As a condition for negotiations the
Government has promulgated the statutes for the EC, prepared TORs for the recruitment of a
technical auditor and adopted the Procedural Manual (para. 6.1 g.).  During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will: (i) operate the TSF in accordance with modalities spelled
out in the Procedural Manual which should be acceptable to IDA at all times during the project
implementation (para. 6.2 j.), and (ii) no later than December 31, 1996, cause an in-depth review of
the TSF operations to be carried out; if it appears that the TSF is not performing adequately, IDA
will withhold its financing (para. 6.2.h).  As a condition of effectiveness, the Government has
provided proof that it has: adopted the operating manual for Project Implementation and the
Procedural Manual for operation of the TSF (para 6.4 a); (ii) appointed an external auditor to
conduct semi-annual financial and technical audits of the TSF (para 6.4 b); and (iii) designated
members of the EC (para. 6.4 b ).
3.29          Proiect Sunport.  The TSF is expected to finance about 60 vocational training
programs. Operating costs for the Fund would be financed from a petty cash account, covering
expenses for no more than one month, managed by the Component Coordinator.
C.     Expand apprenticeships and professional training
(US$1.2 million)
3.30          Scope and Obiectives.   This subcomponent would support the Government's
objectives to facilitate the school-to-work transition, promote the informal sector, and build
professional capacity for private sector development.
3.31          Background. Apprenticeship training in Cape Verde is small (100 total registered
apprentices in Praia and Mindelo) but effective. Most apprentices remain with their employer after
completing training, or start their own business. Apprenticeship training is not well organized or
coordinated, there is no formal contract between the apprentice and employer, there is no
inspectorate to assess the validity and the quality of the training, and there is no organized center-
based training component. However, based on the results of the 1992 and 1993 pilot programs, the
demand for apprenticeship training by school leavers and employers is high and apprenticeship
training deserves to be expanded and improved.
3.32          The private professional training centers are able to attract fee-paying students for
correspondence courses in economics and management. Two private training centers are developing
programs combining accredited programs and materials from overseas universities with local
qualified teachers. Based on interviews with employers and employees, there is considerable pent-up
demand for professional education in economics, management, accounting and engineering in the
public and private sector which is not met by the ineffective Government and donor-sponsored
overseas-scholarship program. Local professional education programs through correspondence or
cooperative education could address the need more effectively.



20
3.33          Description. To expand and improve apprenticeship training, about 200 apprentices
would be chosen annually from qualifying candidates country-wide and placed in small and medium
size enterprises (Annex 8). Groups of apprentices would be supervised by instructors from training
centers who would also provide the theoretical training. The contract between the apprentice or his
or her representative, the employer and the training center would be supervised by the local
employment centers. The project would cover the cost of supervision and center-based training of
apprentices and work stipends (about US$40 per month) for the apprentices.
3.34          To expand local capacity in scarce professional skills, a scholarship program would
be established to finance local professional education programs provided by private schools offering
bonafide diplomas in cooperation with schools and universities abroad (Annex 9). Eligibility criteria
would favor the upgrading of employed workers, in strategic fields of study (law, management,
finance, and compuIter programming, for example) who can contribute to the cost of their studies.
The program would be managed by the EC, and administered by the Component Coordinator
according to the plan of operation prepared by the Government. The Project would support the
advisory costs to participating centers of establishing new programs with overseas institutions after
reaching agreement on admission, enrollment, and certification criteria. Total cost will not exceed
US$5,000.00 per annum per student or 80% of the cost. The number of students is limited to 20 per
year.
3.35          Proiect Support. The project would finance: (i) the cost (US$0.6 million) of 900
apprentices including center-based training and inspection; (ii) five professional education programs
for about 20 young protessionals annually (US$0.5 million); and (iii) costs to manage and supervise
the two programs.
3.     Enhance the Institulional Capacity to Develop and Implement Policies
and Programs (US$2.5 million)
3.36          Objectives. The objective of this component is to strengthen the existing capacity to
formulate policies and implement programs in education, training, and the labor markets.
a.     Reiniforce AMOES planning, implementation and managerial capacity at the
central and regional levels (US$0.5 million)
3.37          Obiectives.  This subcomponent will: (i) provide support to improve planning,
implementation and administration at the central and local levels of the MOES; (ii) support the
Government's policy to transfer technical and administrative responsibilities to regional education
offices (delegates); and (iii) strengthen the relationship between the school and the community. This
will be achieved by: (a) completing the school map and MIS system begun under the ongoing
Primary Education Upgrading Project; (b) providing training for MOE Directorates, regional
delegates and school directors; (c) suLpporting school-level monitoring and evaluation of student
achievement; and (d) improving the effectiveness of school feeding programs.
3.38          Background. The MOES faces four major constraints to effectively implementing its
programs: (i) there is sUbstantial duplication of responsibilities among central Departments; (ii) the
MOES is overly centralized; (iii) temporary project implementation units have assumed
implementing roles in place of the responsible Departments weakening the capacities of those
Departments; and (iv) information on students, schools, and teachers is not well managed.



21
3.39          Currently, school directors are ill-prepared for managing schools in the new system,
which requires, in addition to managing teachers and students, encouraging community participation
in school affairs. Once appointed, it is difficult to replace Directors. Therefore it is important to
review the current selection process for school directors which is not based on clearly defined
profiles and competencies for the position. Often Directors are unfamiliar with the administrative
and motivational skills needed to effectively manage a school within a community.
3.40          School-level monitoring of student achievement is important in the context of
automatic promotion within EBI two-year cycles (para. 2.14). The IP, in conjunction with GEP, is
responsible for testing and evaluation.  Thus far, the IP has only prepared standard criterion-
referenced tests for EBI Math (Grades I and 3) which would be used to determine student promotion
between the two year cycles, but not evaluate student progress within the cycles. The Government is
considering developing tests for all EBI subjects to be administered by teachers. The Government is
also considering having IP develop a selection exam to replace the system of 'natural selection'
currently used, where EBC graduates are ineligible to proceed because they are too old (a function of
the high repetition rates) or are unable to attend one of the nine secondary schools because they live
too far from the school. With EBI, more students are expected to be eligible to advance to the
limited number of places in secondary education, and a selection mechanism needs to be
implemented.
3.41          Development of school nutrition and health programs. The school canteen program
has been in operation since 1978 and now covers every primary school in the country. Food is
provided by the World Food Program, distributed by ICASE and prepared in schools by parent
committees. While evaluations of the program have indicated its value in terms of primary student
health and learning capacity, it is costly and may be difficult to sustain because meals are provided to
all children regardless of need (Annex 11). The WFP has indicated the likelihood of reductions in
contributions to school feeding programs in the future, as it is faced with competing demands for
emergency food aid elsewhere. The Government should be prepared to take the necessary actions to
tackle with feeding demand on a needs basis.
3.42          Description. The duplication of MOES responsibilities will be addressed through a
review of Departmental profiles and reallocation of personnel. Task profile manuals developed with
AtDB funding but never used would serve as the basis for the review. In addition, the position of
Secretary General will be created in the Ministry, with responsibility for organizing regular planning
meetings with department directors and ensuring overall coordination of the Government program
for the education sector. The management and implementation of donor-financed projects will be
gradually transferred from Implementing Units to responsible Departments, where specific
individuals will be responsible for their implementation. A Component Coordinator will monitor the
education investments and advise Departments on implementation planning and administrative
procedures and will work closely with the Ministry of Economic Coordination which will be
strengthened  to coordinate project activities (para. 3.54).   Nomination and appointment of
individuals responsible for program implementation in the responsible Departments was a condition
of effectiveness (para. 6.4. c.).
3.43          A  comprehensive training  program  addressing  administrative  and  managerial
weaknesses among staff in both the central and regional administrative offices will be implemented.
Administrative training will be provided by a local training center (CENFA) with specialist support
(possibly a NRCV). Over the life of this project, the existing management information system will
be strengthened, connecting regional delegates with the Cabinet of Planning and Research (GEP) and
developing school-level information that will allow monitoring of teacher qualifications and
experience, school facilities, and the progression and health status of students. At the school level, a



22
revised system will be introduced to recruit Directors in the 197 "pole schools" subject to
confirmation of their ability to manage. Directors will receive a responsibilities allowance based on
the functions of the position. As a condition of negotiations the Government has formalized the
proposal to identify, recruit and compensate EBI directors reviewed during appraisal. An action
plan to revise the MOES organizational structure will be presented at the mid-term review (para. 6.1
h.).
3.44          The IP will produce tests to determine promotion between cycles and sample tests for
teachers to administer within cycles to determine the need for remedial instruction. Using the design
developed under the ongoing project, a bank of questions will be developed and the end-of-cycle
examination will be revised to reflect curricula changes in EBI and the demands of secondary
education. As a condition of negotiations, the Government has established criteria governing the
conditions for promotion between the three two-year primary education cycles (para. 6.1 i..).
3.45          The project will support improvement in the provision of school lunches and the
implementation of a pilot program to monitor the health of school children. A recent Bank-financed
review of school feeding in Cape Verde suggested: (i) evaluating the existing program with a view to
identifying whether a targeted feeding program might be effective and desirable; and (ii) establishing
the potential for increased community participation in the program. The same study also identified
areas where school-based health care could be introduced. Some preparatory operational research
will be financed under the proposed project to evaluate the effectiveness of deworming interventions
and health screening by teachers. Depending on the outcomes of the above evaluation and research,
IDA may provide support in this area under a planned Social Sector Development Project (FY97).
A specific module in basic health care practices will be incorporated in the teacher upgrading
courses, and the pilot program will be launched after teachers have received this training.
3.46          Project Support. The IDA credit will finance: (a) 20 man-months of local training
and 10 man-months of overseas training for MOE personnel in planning, budgeting and financial
administration, and annual local training seminars for the members of the 15 regional delegate and
sub-delegate offices; (b) travel and logistical costs of training for school directors; (c) seven months
of specialist services to: update the school map; analyze MOES functions; and conduct a pilot
operation to improve the school feeding program; (d) the local costs of specialist services provided
by the Gulbenkian Foundation to strengthen the MOES, develop continuous assessment tests, revise
the end-of-cycle examination and design locally-relevant pedagogical materials; and (e) the basic
education component coordinator.
b.     Strengthen the institutional capacity to monitor training and provide
employment services (US$1.2 million)
3.47          Scope and Obiectives. This subcomponent contributes to the Government's objective
to promote a coherent training system linked to the labor market and to reduce the structural
imbalances in the labor market by improving the existing employment centers. The project will
support this through: (i) the strengthening of the capacity of the Institute for Employment and
Training in the Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Affairs to undertake surveys of the labor market
and training trends and issues, to produce and disseminate reports to public and private sector
employers and training providers, and to inform national and local decision makers; and (ii)
rehabilitating and equipping the existing employment center in Praia, constructing and equipping a
new Employment Center in Mindelo, and equipping the two new Employment Centers to be
constructed by the Government in Ponta do sol and Sao Filipe.  To guide the development of
national policies toward employment and training, the Government will establish a National



23
Advisory Council for Employment and Training (NACET) with representatives from the major
social partners with an interest in training and employment.
3.48          Background.  There is no system  in Cape Verde that compiles and disseminates
information on labor market and employment trends, nor is there a mechanism to evaluate the
training system, its quality and relevance to labor market demands.  In 1992, the Government
created a Secretary of State for Employment (SSE) within the Ministry of Justice and Labor (MOJL)
to provide information on employment opportunities and link the diverse training activities with
labor demand. The main functions of the SSE were to manage periodic collective bargaining,
resolve labor disputes, and provide employment services through two Employment Centers, one in
each principal city (Praia and Mindelo).  The Centers are under-served in terms of resources
(human, financial, and logistical) and therefore provide only very limited services to the Government
or employers in providing employment information to local or national decision makers. They do
not provide counseling services, have limited knowledge of training opportunities, and are ill-
equipped to provide advice on employment promotion strategies or opportunities. In March 1994,
the functions of the SSE and supervision of the labor exchanges were transferred to the Institute for
Employment and Training (IET) in a newly created Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Affairs
(MLYSA).  The IET has units responsible for all functions relating to labor inspection and
arbitration, collective bargaining agreements and labor market legislation.
3.49          Description.  Under the project, the IET will be strengthened to enable it to
undertake surveys of the labor market in conjunction with the National Institute of Statistics,
disseminate the information to the public, provide policy advice to the NACET and technical advice
to the EC of the TSF, and among employers and training centers. Because of the current lack of
qualified personnel in the Government, contracts will be offered to qualified nationals who, by the
end of the project, will have trained Government personnel or converted to civil servants.  In
addition, the lET will be responsible for developing the capacities of the Employment Centers to
analyze and report on local employment and training issues and trends.
3.50          The Government has submitted to IDA the decree creating the IET, describing its
functions and providing terms of reference for key professional staff.  The Government has
presented to IDA: (i) a three-year action plan for the IET; (ii) evidence that it has identified
candidates for the two specialists positions (Employment/Labor Market and Training); and (iii) a
decree establishing the NACET. The Government gave assurances to provide by FY1996 the
necessary resources to fulfill the agreed-upon action plan for the IET (para. 6.2 i.). The decree
establishing NACET has been promulgated Para. 6. L.c.).
3.51          The Government has proposed to revise the functions of the Employment Centers in
order to provide them with a more pro-active role in the labor market. The Centers will be given
the following responsibilities: (i) periodically collect employment information from the local
employer organizations, businesses and municipalities and to disseminate this information through
local media; (ii) help training centers identify both training needs and trends; (iii) provide
employment information to local Government and responsible organizations; and (iv) identify and aid
small businesses and informal sector entrepreneurs with access to apprentices and training. In the
context of the project, these centers, in conjunction with training institutions, identify candidates
eligible for support from a Training Support Fund (para 3.28).
3.52          Project Support.  To strengthen the IET, the IDA  credit would finance: (a)
renovation of suitable facilities for the IET; (b) equipment and furniture for the IET; (c) labor market
and employment studies and the cost of their dissemination and publication; (d) six man-months of
overseas training for JET staff; (e) six man-months of specialist services to help the restructuring



24
and/or evaluation of training programs and undertake an evaluation of opportunities to establish
distance education programs; (f) operating costs for the IET (office supplies, equipment maintenance,
and travel costs); (g) contracts for two senior personnel in the IET and the Training Component
Coordinator.
3.53          To extend the coverage and quality of decentralized  employment monitoring
services, the Credit would finance: (a) the construction of premises for the employment center in
Mindelo and the renovation of the center in Praia, including equipment; (b) six months of training
seminars for employment center staff; and (c) the salaries of four technical staff of the Employment
Centers on a declining basis. The Government will finance the construction of two new centers in
Sao Antao and Fogo. Austria and Germany have agreed to cover, through direct budget support, the
operating costs of the two new training centers.
c.     Project coordination (US$0.7 million)
3.54          Description.  To promote inter-agency cooperation during project implementation
and coordinate implementation of the proposed project, the existing project coordination unit
established in the Ministry of Economic Coordination for monitoring the implementation of bilateral
and multilateral cofinanced projects would be strengthened with a project coordinator and an
accountant. The Project Coordinator would be responsible for overall coordination, administration
and financial matters. Two Component Coordinators, one to monitor the implementation of the
education components, review bidding procedures and provide advice to implementors in the MOES
Directorates and a second to monitor the implementation of the training component, review relevant
procurement issues and administer the TSF and professional scholarship program would be based in
the respective line Ministries, but would work closely with the Project Coordinator. In addition, the
PCU would contract the services of a full-time accountant, who would be supported by occasional
assistance from a qualified accounting firm meeting international standards. All personnel would be
recruited locally. Where suitable candidates do not exist, contracts would be offered internationally.
The Government has: (i) presented the TOR for the four identified staff of the PCU; and (ii)
presented evidence of provision of suitable office space for the PCU (Annex 13). Before Board
presentation (para. 6.3 d.), the Government has appointed the Project Coordinator and two
Component Coordinators acceptable to IDA (para. 4.15). As a condition for credit effectiveness
(para. 6.4 d), the Government would appoint an independent auditor under a multi-year contract,
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.15).
3.55          Project Support. The credit would finance: (a) contracts of the Project Coordinator
and an accountant; (b) support from a qualified accounting firm and an external auditor; (c) office
equipment and furniture; and (d) incremental operating costs. The Government would finance the
cost of the facilities to house the PCU.
C.    Project Cost and Financing
3.56          Project Cost.  The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at about
US$15.8 million, with a base cost of US$14.5 million and a foreign exchange component of US$7.1
million. Price contingencies, estimated at US$0.7 million, assume an annual domestic inflation rate
of 7% and a foreign inflation rate of 3%. Physical contingencies are estimated at about US$0.5
million (3% of base costs). IDA would finance about 73% of total project costs (US$11.5 million).
The Government would contribute US$4.3 million equivalent, of which US$0.8 million would be
direct budgetary support from the Netherlands and Gulbenkian Foundation. Detailed project costs
are provided in Annex 12.



25
3.57          Recurrent Cost Implications. In primary education, the principal recurrent cost
impact of the project would be related to teachers' salaries. The restructuring of the system would
have a significant impact on the distribution and remuneration of teachers. By 1999, the project is
expected to have had the following annual impact: (a) savings of CVE 42 million resulting from the
reduction in the number of primary teachers (EBI) needed; (b) increased expenditures of CVE 54
million for the 996 former EBE teachers that became qualified under the ongoing project; (c)
increased expenditures of CVE 49 million for the 809 former EBE teachers expected to become
qualified under this project; (d) increased expenditures of CVE 6.5 million for 250 former EBC
teachers expected to be promoted to lower-secondary education; (e) increased expenditures of CVE
20 million for 150 former EBC teachers promoted to school director; and (f) CVE 7 million for 120
former teachers upgraded to pedagogic advisors. In addition the project would generate savings of at
least CVE 8 million annually from the replacement of rented classrooms. By the end of the project
period, it is expected that an annual increase in recurrent expenditures of CVE 86 million would
have been generated. This is equivalent to 7% of the 1994 education budget. This is a reasonable
increase, assuming a 3% growth in the Government's annual budget and a constant share of this
budget being allocated to the education sector.  These assumptions are not unreasonable, given
annual increases in education budget of 8.3% since 1992.
3.58          For training and employment, the project would generate increased expenditures of
CVE 8 million for salaries and operating costs of the two new Employment Centers. This represents
a 100% increase over 1994 allocations to the SSE, whose functions have now been replaced by the
IEP in the MLYSA. This increase is sustainable because the Government has given high priority to
the training and employment sector, and has already ear marked funds for the institutions.
IV. PROJECT INIPLEMENTATION
A.    Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
4.1           The primary education component of the project was prepared by the technical staff
of the MOES, with external assistance provided by the Gulbenkian Foundation, and, where
necessary, financed by proceeds from  the ongoing project.  Technical specifications for school
construction (identification of EBC schools to be renovated, identification of standard design for EBI
classrooms) have been completed. The contents of the emergency training program for primary
teachers for the transition period was finalized in May 1994, and upgrading classes for teachers of
Grades 1, 3, and 5 will be held between June and September 1994. These will be used as a basis for
future training programs.  A school mapping exercise has been completed, with extensive data
available in six regional districts, and sufficient information to identify needs for deployment of
teachers.
4.2           The technical training and employment component was prepared by the Secretary of
State for Employment with assistance provided by France and Portugal, and financed, in part, by a
PPF advance. Draft terms of reference for the NACET and JET have been received and are
acceptable to IDA. The final versions will be submitted to IDA prior to negotiations. A draft
Procedural Manual governing the TSF has been received, modifications were discussed during
appraisal and the final version will also be submitted prior to negotiations.  Throughout project
preparation, close contact was maintained with interested donors to agree upon sector strategy and
coordinate program support.



26
B.    Project Coordination and Nianagement
4.3           Day-to-day management of the primary education component of the project will be
undertaken by existing Departments within the Ministry of Education, as follows: (i) the
Administration Department (DGA) will be responsible for textbook delivery and, with support from
the Public Works department in the Ministry of Infrastructure and a locally recruited consultant, for
school construction; (ii) the Pedagogic Institute (IP) will be responsible for teacher training and
student evaluation; and (iii) the Education Department (DGE) will be responsible for policy
implementation, including the reform of technical education, and coordination of regional delegates
and school directors. Day-to-day implementation of the training and employment component will be
the responsibility of the IET in the MLYSA. The Training Support Fund would be overseen by the
EC and administered by the Training Component Coordinator with technical support provided by the
IET, but financial management will be done by the PCU.
4.4           Coordination  and  consolidation  of financial accounts, monitoring  of project
implementation outcomes and inter-agency coordination will be the responsibility of Project
Coordinator in the Ministry of Economic Coordination.  The PCU  will: (a) coordinate the
preparation of annual work programs and budgets for all project components; (b) procure goods and
services, and recruit consultants; (c) maintain and consolidate all project accounts including the
special account; (d) prepare the necessary documentation for withdrawal of proceeds from the Credit
account; (e) make arrangements for the audit of project accounts and SOEs; and (f) organize annual
and mid-term reviews of project implementation.
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation
4.5           Monitoring and evaluation of project performance and outcomes will be carried out
by the implementing units over the life of the project, with the PCU playing a coordinating role.
Key monitoring indicators, based on the Government's action plan, are shown in annex of the letter
of Sector Policy (Annex 1). In its role as project coordinator, the PCU will organize, in May of
each year, beginning in 1995, a joint IDA-Government review of project implementation, based on
the progress reports and expenditure statements of the past year, and annual work programs and
budgets for the next year.  In addition, the PCU  will prepare a mid-term  review  of project
implementation, to be conducted jointly by IDA  and the Government in November 1997.  In
conjunction with this review, a performance review of the TSF will be carried out. Details of the
Bank's supervision plan and on the annual and mid-term reviews, are provided in Annex 14. The
results of the mid-term review will be incorporated in an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further
implementation of the project.  In addition, the Government will, within six months of Credit
closing, submit an implementation completion report (ICR), in accordance with the guidelines for the
preparation of completion reports applicable at that time. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances to this effect (para. 6.2 k.).
D.    Procurement and Disbursement
4.6           Table 2 summarizes the project cost by disbursement category and proposed
procurement method. A detailed procurement plan and timetable are given in Annex 15. Cape
Verde's procurement laws and regulations conform to IDA procurement guidelines.  No special
exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in Credit documents for international
competitive bidding (ICB), as Cape Verde's procurement regulations allow IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.



27
4.7           Civil Works. The civil works program financed by IDA (US$4.8 million) concerns
the rehabilitation of existing schools to make them conform to EBI infrastructure requirements. This
includes: (i) the addition of 200 new classrooms and amenities to former EBE schools; (ii) the
restructuration of 10 EBC schools; and (iii) the construction of 100 new classrooms and amenities to
replace otherwise rented space. In addition, the credit will finance the rehabilitation of one existing
employment center and the facilities of the IET, and the construction of one new employment center
to replace the rented facility.  Civil works contracts financed under the Credit will be awarded
through LCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Due to their small size, geographic
spread and high transportation costs, these civil works contracts are unlikely to attract foreign or
large firms that use modern equipment. However, foreign bidders would not be precluded from
submitting bids. Contracts will be grouped, to the extend practical, into packages estimated to cost
at least US$100,000 equivalent each. In that event, ICB procedures would apply.
4.8           Goods.  Goods financed under the credit (US$2.2 million) include pedagogical
equipment, office equipment and supplies, school and office furniture, vehicles, textbooks and
teachers guides. Goods will be grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 each and procured
through ICB in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (May 1992).  Standard bidding documents developed by the Bank will be used.  A
preferential margin of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices
of competing goods for all ICB procurement will be given to domestic firms in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. Since foreign bidders are unlikely to be interested in school furniture, because of
the size of the contracts, averaging US$75,000, resulting from each of the five yearly batches and
due to the additional costs inherent to the geography and remoteness of Cape Verde) and local firms
can produce below the market prices, primary school furniture financed by the Credit (US$0.8
million) will be procured through LCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
Textbooks: Reprinting services (US$0.6 million) will be procured through ICB. Small quantities of
goods such as office supplies, pedagogic equipment, consumable materials and spare parts, which are
available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$50,000 may be
procured through prudent international and local shopping, based on price quotations of at least three
reliable suppliers, or through the UNDP's Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO)
especially for office equipment and vehicles, provided that the aggregate amount of such
procurement does not exceed US$150,000 equivalent. All bids will be submitted on a c.i.f. basis for
imported goods and on an ex-factory basis for locally manufactured goods.
4.9           Training Support Fund.  The TSF (US$0.4 million), which aims at supporting
demand-driven training, will finance the costs of training services by public and private providers,
including enterprises and NGOs, which meet eligibility criteria established in a Procedural Manual.
The TSF would provide support to: (i) enterprise-based on-the-job training, and (ii) demand-driven
training programs in public, private, and NGO training centers. The TSF (US$0.4 million) would
be expected to annually finance approximately 12 short-term vocational training programs with 15-20
trainees. The TSF would be managed by an Executive Committee, with equal representation from
the private and social sectors (Trade Union or NGO) and the Government. Applications would be
evaluated for technical content and compliance with the eligibility criteria outlined in a Procedural
Manual and presented to the EC for approval. The first four requests for TSF financing would be
sent to IDA for prior review. It is expected that financial support will average about US$5,000,
with a maximum of US$15,000. Training contracts from the Fund would be managed by the
Component Coordinator in the Project Coordinating Unit (para. 3.54).
4.10          Consultant services. The project has not provided for long-term resident technical
assistance. International and local consultants providing specialist services financed by IDA (US$1.4
million) will be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants



28
(August 1992).  The standard Letter of Invitation and Form  of Contract for appointment of
consultants as developed by the Bank will be used. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term
assignments, i.e. not exceeding six months, carried out by individual consultants. Services to be
contracted include technical consultancy, training, architectural services for the design of the
employment center construction and school rehabilitation, and auditing and assistance to the
accountant. Construction management services including field supervision (not to exceed US$0.2
million equivalent) will be carried out by a locally recruited consultant and the Department of Civil
Works in the Ministry of Infrastructure (MOI) because contracts with foreign firms will be more
expensive and the MOI has qualified staff and facilities and wide knowledge of the country ensuring
adequate coverage of the operations. The project has provided for funds from the Credit to defray
the costs incurred by the MOI staff in carrying out the aforementioned duties.
4.11          Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above a threshold
value of US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review
process would cover 80% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods and 40% of the
amount contracted for civil works. Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold
levels will apply to about one in three contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for LCB will be
reviewed by and agreed upon with IDA. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the
recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$75,000 and
US$35,000 equivalent respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA review will not apply to
the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, and to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value above the prior-review  threshold (Annex 16).  In order to maintain acceptable
procedures and ensure that the general objectives and criteria established for the TSF (Training
Support Fund) are being met, the first four proposals accepted for funding will require prior IDA
approval. Thereafter, approvals will be given by the EC, with a posteriori control by IDA, except
for contracts which exceed US$15,000 equivalent which will require prior review by IDA.



29
Table 2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000 equivalent, including contingencies)
Procurement Method
International    Local
Competitive   Competitive            Consulting
Bidding       Bidding     Other    Services      N.B.F.      Total
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction                             -           4,370                     -      b/ 110       4,480
a/(4,370)                               (-)    (4,370)
2. Rehabilitation                                -            46           -                      -          46
(48)                                          (46)
3. Rehabilitation (Schools)                     -            418           -                   708        1,126
(418)                               (-)      (418)
B. Equipment
1. Pedagogical Equipment                      401               -        100          -           -        501
(401)                     (100)                              (501)
2. Office Equipment and Supplies              103               -        26           -           -         128
(103)                      (26)                              (128)
3. Vehicles                                      -           119           -119
(119)                                         (119)
C. Furniture
1. School Furniture                             -            838           -          -           -        838
(838)                                         (838)
2. Office Furniture                            23               -                -                -          23
(23)                                                         (23)
D. Textbooks
1. Textbooks                                  637                          -          -                    637
(637)                                                        (637)
2. Teaching Kits
E. Training
1. Local training                                                      1,701                      -       1,701
(1,701)                            (1,701)
2. Overseas training                                                     194                                194
(194)                              (194)
F. Support Fund                                    -              -        450          -           -         450
(450)                              (450)
G. Specialist Services
1. Local Specialist                             -               -          -        634           -        634
(634)                  (634)
2. Foreign Specialist                            -                                  279           -         279
(279)                  (279)
3. Audit and Accounting                          -              -          -        198                     198
(198)                  (198)
4. Architectural Engineering Services            -              -          -        314           -         314
(314)                  (314)
H. Incremental Operating Costs                     -              -         31          -          9           40
(31)                    (-)       (31)
I. Project Operating Costs                                        -        568          -           -         568
(568)                              (568)
J. Incremental Recurrent Costs                                    -          -          -       3,499      3,499
(-)         (-)
Total                                      1,163          5,792      3,070      1,425       4,326      15,776
(1 ,163)      (5,792)    (3,070)    (1,425)          (-)    (11,450)
(a) Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
(b) Fiinanced by the Government.



30
4.12           Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements.  Although
disbursements under the ongoing project are behind schedule, this was due to unfamiliarity with
Bank procedures in the beginning. After a seminar on the use of Bank standard bidding documents,
disbursement has accelerated. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the proper monitoring
of the procurement, as well as the use of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, and
standard procurement documents for LCB to be developed, reviewed by, and agreed upon with IDA.
The Government submitted to IDA for review: (a) a draft procurement plan; (b) a draft Procedural
Manual for management and procurement; and (c) draft bidding document for the construction
program and major equipment, as well as draft letters of invitation for consultants services, financed
by IDA (para.6.1 1.) The Government submitted to IDA the final versions of these documents and
gave assurances at negotiations that it would apply the procurement procedures and arrangements
outlined in the above documents.
4.13           Disbursements.  The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period,
with the IDA Credit disbursed over six years, according to the categories shown in Table 3 below.
The estimated disbursement profile is shown in Annex 17. Disbursement of the Credit will be fully
documented except for expenditures valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent which would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be
retained by the PCU for review by IDA supervision missions and for semi-annual audits.
Disbursements for contracts for training programs and services that meet the eligibility criteria
established under the TSF are expected to be made on the basis of SOEs as they are anticipated to be
valued to a maximum of US$15,000 equivalent, with relevant documentation also retained by the
PCU for review by IDA supervision missions and external auditors.
Table 3: Allocations and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Categ,orv of Expenditure      Proposed IDA Allocation % of Expenditure
(US$ million)
1.     Civil Works                            4.1                           100
2.     Equipment, furniture                   1.3                           100
3.     Textbooks                              0.6                           100
4.     Training                               1.6                           100
5.     Specialists Services                   1.1                           100
6.     Support Fund                           0.4                           100
7.     Project Operating Costs                0.5                           100
8.     Incremental Operating Costs            0.1                           80*
9.     PPF                                    0.5                           100
10.    Unallocated                            1.3
TOTAL                                        11.5
* on a declining basis (100 % the first 2 years, 65 % year 3, and 35% thereafter)



3'
E.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.14          Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, the Government will open a Special
Account (SA), in a commercial bank in Praia to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures, managed
by the PCU. The authorized allocation for the SA would be US$250,000 equivalent. IDA will
make an initial deposit of US$150,000 equivalent into the SA upon credit effectiveness and will
replenish the SA upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment
will be accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of the SA. To expedite the
implementation of day-to-day activities and effect small payments for local training programs
involving frequent expenditures in local currency, each component coordinator will operate a petty
cash account in escudos to cover expenses for no more than one month. Accounts will be reconciled
every month with the PCU accountant and funds made against eligible expenditures will be
replenished through the project account. Justifications of expenditures eligibility will be handed over
to the project accountant and kept as supporting documents for the use of the SOE procedure.
4.15          The PCU would establish and maintain its accounts in accordance with International
Accounting Standards (IAS), and would conserve all the documentation related to project
expenditures. A detailed proposal on the accounting system and procedures to be followed, profile
of personnel needed and equipment required would be prepared by consultants under PPF financing.
The terms of reference for the consultants to be recruited to establish the accounting and financial
management system of the project have been reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations (para. 6.1
m.), and the establishment of a financial management and accounting system for the project,
acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness (para 6.4 d (ii).). The PCU would at all
times keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect its operations
and financial position.  These records would be made available to visiting Bank missions and
independent auditors.  The project's accounts will be audited annually, in accordance with
International Standard of Auditing (ISA), by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA. In
addition to financial audits, the TSF would be subject to half yearly management and technical
audits. The audited accounts and the auditor's report, including the Management Letter (Long
Form), and a statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their intended purpose and
a separate opinion with respect to statement of expenditures and the Special Account, would be
submitted to IDA within three months of the end of the close of each semester, with respect to the
TSF, and within six months of the end of the fiscal year for the Project. Furthermore, an interim
audit of the TSF operations would be carried out no later than December 31, 1996. Assurances to
this effect were reached at negotiations (para. 6.2 h.). Agreement was reached at negotiations on the
terms of reference, the shortlist of firms and the selection procedures for audit contracts (para. 6.1
m.), and a multi-year contract award for auditing the Project and TSF accounts, acceptable to the
Association, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 6.4 b (i)).
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
5.1           By project end, Cape Verde would be the first Sahelian country to achieve universal
primary education, with 98% net enrollment ratio. The introduction of compulsory basic education,
combined with quality improvements, would ensure that about 85% of students entering in Grade 1
will pass the primary school leavers' exam. Furthermore, the new curriculum will ensure that
primary education graduates will be better prepared for continuing education and provided with
general life skills including improved health practices and environmental awareness. Training Fund-
supported programs, apprenticeships and correspondence courses will provide training and skills



32
acquisition for about 1,000 people annually. The Fund would encourage the growth of the still-
nascent private sector, promote the decentralization of training opportunities, and provide incentives
to improve planning and management of training centers and strengthen their links with employers,
thereby increasing efficiency in resource use. Improvements in employment services would respond
to the need to provide information about market demand and employment trends and issues.
B.     Risks
5.2            There are three main risks: First, the generalization of EBI could be threatened by
the limited planning and management capacity within the MOES to implement the programs that
promote the rational use of classrooms and deployment of teachers.  This will be mitigated by
intensive support for the Directorate of Planning during the transition period, and continuous
strengthening of MOES Directorates throughout the project. Second, training institutions may be
slow to adjust their programs to changes in labor market demands.  This will be mitigated by
establishing an effective monitoring system that will provide the signals required to adjust training
programs to labor market demand and by involving the private sector in the design and delivery of
training programs.  Third, the Government may not be able to fully meet the recurrent cost
implications of the program  for both primary education and professional training.  For EBI,
increased salary expenditures will be partially offset by a reduction in expenditures for rented
classrooms, by cost recovery for textbooks and by a minimal growth in the teaching force. For the
training sector, the project will cover some of the initial burden, and trainees will also share some of
the costs. In addition, the private sector is scheduled to increase its financial participation in the
training programs.
Vi. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6. I          The Government has met conditions of negotiations by furnishing the following
documents for discussion and finalization during negotiations:
(a)    the draft letter of sector policy (para. 2.32);
(b)    a five-year classroom  construction program  including the names of the sites for
classrooms to be constructed in the first year of the project (para. 3.7);
(c)    a draft statute of the IP (para. 3.12);
(d)    a program  acceptable to IDA to appoint and compensate pedagogic advisors (para.
3.13);
(e)    (i) a draft agreement with ICASE outlining its role with respect to textbook distribution
and management of a textbook rental scheme; (ii) a draft ministerial decree (decreto-
lei) governing the Textbook Revolving Fund indicating that proceeds from the sales
should be used for exclusively financing the reprinting services for students' textbooks,
and the Fund will be audited annually (para 3.17);
(f)    a timetable of activities and dialogues leading to the development of a revised technical
education structure. curriculum and admission standards (para. 3.22);
(g)    evidence that it has promulgated the terms of reference for the EC, and the TORs for
the recruitment of a technical auditor (para. 3.28);



33
(h)    a proposal to identify, recruit and compensate EBI directors (para. 3.43);
(i)    criteria governing the conditions for promotion between primary education cycles
(para. 3.44);
(j)    (i) a three-year action plan for the IET; (ii) evidence that it has identified candidates for
the two specialists positions (Employment/Labor Market and Training); and (iii) a
decree establishing the NACET (para. 3.50);
(k)    the TOR for the four identified staff of the PCU, and present evidence of provision of
suitable office space for the PCU (para. 3.54);
(I)    draft procurement plan, Procedural Manual for management, procurement and bidding
documents for the construction program, and letters of invitation for consultant
services (para. 4.12);and
(m)    (i) the terms of reference for the consultants to he recruited to establish the accounting
and financial management system of the project; and (ii) the terms of reference, the
shortlist of firms and the selection procedures for audit contracts (para. 4.15).
6.2            During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a)    issue, by July 31, 1995, regulations to implement the policies of compulsory education
for six grades contained in Law No 103-111-90 and automatic promotion within cycles
(para. 2.32);
(b)    implement the agreed upon plan for the recruitment and deployment of teachers (para.
3.11);
(c)    provide sufficient resources to meet the annual recurrent budget of the IP (para. 3.12);
(d)    ensure that the decreto-lei establishing the FEE provides for the reinvestment of
textbook sales proceeds in reprinting and related services (para. 3.17);
(e)    no later than June 30, 1996, prepare a transition plan to develop and introduce the
revised technical education structure, curriculum and admission standards (para. 3.22);
(f)    no later than October 30, 1996, take appropriate regulatory measures to implement the
technical education reform (para. 3.22);
(g)    operate the TSF in accordance with modalities spelled out in the Procedural Manual
which should be acceptable to IDA at all times during the project implementation
(para. 3.28);
(h)    no later than December 31, 1996, cause an in-depth review of the TSF operations to be
carried out; if it appears that the TSF is not performing adequately, IDA will withhold
its financing (para. 3.28);
(i)    provide by FY96 the necessary financial and human resources to fulfill the agreed-upon
action plan for the IET (para. 3.50);



34
(j)    ensure that, at all times during the project implementation, the Project Coordinator and
the two component coordinators positions shall be maintained and staffed by qualified
staff acceptable to IDA (para. 3.54).
(k)    submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months of the Credit
closing (para. 4.5);and
(I)    submit to IDA audit reports of reasonable scope and detail within six months of the end
of each fiscal year (para. 4.15);
6.3           As a condition for Board Presentation, the Government has:
(a)    formally adopted the Letter of Sector Development Policy including the monitoring
indicators to be agreed upon during negotiations (para 2.32).
(b)    furnished evidence that land is assigned to the Project first year classroom
construction program (para. 3.7);
(c)    promulgated the statutes of the IP (para. 3.12);and
(d)    appointed the Project Coordinator and two component coordinators (para. 3.54)
6.4           The following will be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)    adoption of the Operating Manual for Project Implementation and of the Procedural
Manual for operation of the TSF (para. 3.28)
(b)    proof that the Government has (i) appointed an external auditor under a multi-year
contract to conduct semi-annual technical audits of the TSF (para. 3.54); and (ii)
designated members of the EC (para. 3.28);
(c)    nomination and appointment of individuals responsible for program  implementation
within the responsible Departments of MOES (para. 3.42); and
(d)    (i) appointment of an independent auditor under a multi-year contract, acceptable to
IDA  (para. 3.54, 4.15); and (ii) establishment of a financial management and
accounting system for the Project as well as selection of a qualified accountant in the
PCU acceptable to IDA, who will be in place (para. 3.54);
6.5           Recommendations. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$11.5 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.



35
Annex 1
Pave 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC COORDINATION
Praia,
To
The President
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
On behalf of the Government, I am hereby presenting the objectives that the Republic of Cape Verde aims to
achieve in the education sector by the year 2000, as well as the strategies and the action plan which will be
implemented starting in 1994.
I. General Orientation
1.     The Third National Development Plan was presented during the Round Table held in November 1992,
within the framework of dialogue meetings which Cape Verde has been developing for a decade with its
development partners. The strategic objectives of this Plan are the promotion of the private sector in the
economy, the development of national infrastructures, regional development and decentralization, and the
strengthening of human resources.
2.     The Human Resources Development Strategy put forth in the Third Development Plan focuses on: (i) the
generalization of basic education; (ii) the expansion of general and technical secondary education and vocational
training structures; and (iii) the development of an integrated vocational training system and the coordination of
training activities across all sectors.
H. Implementation Strategy
A.     Basic Education
3.     In order to ensure that all children have the abilities necessary for active participation in society and in
the economy, the Government has decided to replace the two existing cycles of primary education by a six-year
integrated cycle (known as IBE - Integrated Basic Education). The objectives of this reform are to provide six
years of basic education to all children, improve the curriculum to ensure a better match between the skills
acquired in school and those required for an active life, increase community interest in school life, and improve
the efficiency of resource use.
4.     To support this reform, the Government intends to: (a) introduce, nationwide, a revised curriculum based
on a six -year basic education system divided into three two-year cycles and centered on four subjects
(Portuguese, mathematics, integrated sciences, and artistic/cultural activities); (b) introduce compulsory education
for the first six years; (c) increase internal efficiency by improving quality, introducing automatic promotion
within each two-year cycle, and gradually limiting the repetition rate to 5 % over a period of four years, starting in
1995; (d) revise the conditions of employment of primary education teachers to better reflect the responsibilities
stemming from the new curriculum; and (e) revise the evaluation system between cycles and at the end of the last
cycle of IBE.



36
Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
B.      Secondary Education
5.      The Government will support the development of a secondary education system which would allow
equity in access as well as prepare future school leavers to meet labor market demands, particularly with regard to
mid-level technicians, and adapt to the increasing technological demands of the international market.
6.      To fulfill these objectives, the Government intends (i) for general secondary education: (a) to increase
enrollment opportunities for lower secondary education, bearing in mind equity between islands; (b) to adapt the
lower secondary education curriculum to allow a smooth transition and curricular continuity between IBE and
secondary education; and (c) to increase the duration of secondary education from five to six years, divided into
three two-year cycles, to better prepare the students for the labor market or for further studies; (ii) for technical
and commercial education, in order to improve its relevance and quality: (a) to raise the minimum entry
requirement for technical education to completion of lower secondary education; (b) to replace the current training
program for skilled workers by one for mid-level technicians, providing them with the skills, based on a solid
knowledge of science and technology as applied to a wide range of professional activities, necessary for future on-
the-job specialization; and (c) to increase private sector participation in training program design.
C.      Vocational Training and Employment
7.      In order to support the private sector, respond rapidly and efficiently to skilled manpower demands,
enhance the productivity of skilled manpower, and tackle the issue of high unemployment, the Government will
support a program aimed at improving the relevance of the vocational training system and the efficiency of labor
market mechanisms.
8.     With a view to improving the relevance of the vocational training system, the Government intends to:
(a) promote employer participation in the design, implementation and funancing of training programs as well as in
apprenticeships; (b) establish an institutional capacity for policy formulation, planning, and coordination of
technical and vocational training programs with the labor market; and (c) improve methods of information
dissemination, analysis and monitoring of employment and hiring opportunities.
D.      Coordination and Management
9.      To ensure successful implementation of the strategies in the various sectors of education and training, the
Government intends to strengthen the administrative and institutional structures in order to improve education
management, planning and administrative capacities and establish an institutional capacity for the coordination of
technical and vocational training programs.



37
Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
IH. Action Plan
Measures to be undertaken
1.     Generalization of Basic Education
(i)    Adapt infrastructures through a program of construction and conversion of classrooms and the promotion
of community participation in schools rehabilitation.
(ii)    Improve the quality of education through teacher upgrading programs, the provision of pedagogical
support in the classroom, the provision to all students of textbooks at an affordable cost, and the distribution of
pedagogical materials in each school.
(iii)   Improve efficiency in resource use through the redeployment of teachers, the planned recruitment of new
teachers, the extension of multigrade teaching and the revision of weekly teaching schedules.
(iv)    Revise and strengthen the evaluation system  (examinations) to reflect IBE objectives, through the
definition of criteria for promotion from one two-year cycle to the next, the training of teachers in the
administration and use of criteria-based tests, and the introduction, by the 1996/97 school year, of an examination
(for selection and/or certification) at the end of the primary education cycle.
2.     Strengthening of General and Technical Secondary Education
(i)    Ensure eNuity in access through the implementation of a school construction program for lower secondary
education, including the conversion of EBC schools on islands where secondary education is not available.
(ii)   Revise the lower secondary education program through the adaptation of the seventh-grade curriculum
(taking into account student achievements at the IBE level), the preparation of the necessary pedagogical support
for the adapted curriculum, and the implementation of teacher on-the-job training programs.  The revised
curriculum would be introduced by the 1996/97 school year.
(iii)   Improve the quality of upper secondary education school leavers through the establishment of second
and third cycles of secondary education as defined in the law establishing the basic organization of the education
system. The curricula will be reviewed and adapted in relation to the new courses of study, and the teachers of
these two cycles will receive skills upgrading and training in the application of the new programs.
(iv)    Improve the quality and relevance of technical education through its restructuring and resizing, with the
sole aim of providing skills corresponding to labor market demand for medium-level staff, and through the
improvement of the quality and content of training streams. To this end, the Government will organize, around
the technical education restructuring project, a national dialogue between teachers and professionals from different
sectors of economic activity leading to the establishment of an implementation plan. The latter will define
modalities for the transition, including a schedule for the design of training contents, the recruitment and/or
training of teachers and the identification of the necessary means and resources.



38
Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
3.      Promotion of Vocational Training
(i)     Improve relevance of vocational training programs through the establishment of a Support Fund to
finance: (a) short vocational training programs designed to respond to the needs of priority sectors (tourism,
transportation, services, infrastructure); (b) distance and correspondence training programs delivered by local
training institutions in cooperation with internationally recognized correspondents.
(ii)    Promote private sector RarticiRation in the apprenticeship and on-the-job training programs in local
enterprises through subsidization of these programs.
(iii)   Irnrove collection and dissemination of information on the labor market through the restructuring of the
employment centers and the extension of their geographic coverage, the revision of the centers' functions, and the
training of staff to carry out surveys of employment and provide advice on training opportunities.
4.      System Management and Coordination
(i)     Enhance capacity for the management. Rlanning and administration of education through (a) a review of
the definition of tasks in the various departments of the Ministry of Education and Sports; (b) training of MES
administrative staff; (c) training of regional delegates in administrative management; and (d) the implementation
of a training program for school principals.
(ii)    Establish institutional capacity for the coordination of technical and professional trainine Rrograms
through the creation of a multi-sectoral commission (including the private sector) capable of providing sectoral
policy advice to the Government, as well as through the establishment, within the Institute for Employment and
Training under the aegis of the Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Promotion, of a unit comprising the
necessary resources for (a) the collection, consolidation and analysis of data on the status of training and the
current labor market, and (b) the provision of support to the Executive Committee of the Support Fund.
Sincerely yours,
Dr. Jose Tomas Wahnon de Carvalho Veiga
Minister of Economic Coordination



39
Annex 1
Page, 5 of 6
Matrix of Actions and Monitoring Indicators
Year of implementation    1995         1996         1997         1998         1999
Actions and Indicators
1- Generalization of Basic Education
- Construction of classrooms                  80           91          60            60           10
- Teachers' guides (reprinting)                          13,500                    13,500
- Textbooks (reprinting)                                171,000                   180,000
- Teacher upgrading                           0            0           600          600          600
- Implementation of redeployment plan for
teachers in post                              x           June
- Training and recruitment of new teachers
210         210           140          140          140
- Setting up of a system to evaluate student
achievements and objectives                   x            x            x            x            x
- Introduction of an examination at the end of            June
IBE
2- Strengthening of general and technical
secondary education
2.1 Strengthening of secondary education
- Expansion of 1st cycle                      x
- Program design for 2nd &3rd cycles                       x            x            x            x
June
2.2 Restructuring of technical education
- Implementation plan                        June
- Design of new curricula                                 June
- Project launch                                    =                October
3- Promotion of Vocational Training
3.1 Training Support Fund    L                                                  ____l
- Number of ongoing training projects         5            12           12           12           12
3.2 Promotion of apprenticeship                                                                L
- Number of young people in apprenticeship  50-60       150-200      150-200      150-200      150-200
3.3 Distance Education
- Number of workers in training             10-15         20            20          20           20
3.4 Information on Employment and
Training
- Creation of 2 employment centers                     December
- Entreprise directory                    publication                updating                  updating
- File of Training center data sheets     publication                updating                  updating
- Tracer studies                                         results                  updating
- Directory of jobs and professions                                 publication



40
Annex 1
Page 6 or 6
Year of implementation    19           1999         1997         1998         1999
Actions and Indicators                                _            _            _ _ _
4- Strengthening of lnsdtutional capacity  _          _            _           i_             _
4.1 Education management and
administration
- Reorganization of central MES stiuctures
January
- Training of MES and Regional Delegation     at
personnel (statistics and school mapping)  effectiveness                                .
- Annual statistical back-to-school survey  November   November   November    November   November
- Publication of statistical data                         June         June         June         June
- School map (creation and updating of school
data sheet files)                             x            x            x            x            x
4.2 National Advisory Council for             at
Employment and Training (establishment)   effectiveness
4.3 Executive Committee of the Training       at
Support Fund (establishment)             effectiveness



41
Annex 2
Pafe 1 of 3
Republic of Cape Verde
Basic Education and Training Project
Basic Social Data (1991)
Land Area (kM2)                                                            4,035.5
Per Capita Income (US$)                                                      750
Total Population ('000)
('90 census)                                                          344
urban (%)                                                             44
under 14 (%)                                                           45
Population Growth Rate (%)                                                   2.7
with emigration                                                       1.5
urban areas                                                           4.0
Population Density                                                            86
Life Expectancy (years)                                                       65
Infant Mortality (per 1'000 live births)                                      55
Adult Literacy Rate (over 18)                                                 52
Active Population ('000)                                                     180
Unemployment rate (%)                                                         26



42
Annex 2
Pa2e 2 of 3
Basic Education Data (1992/3)
Enrollments
EBE (Grades 1-4)                                                      56,910
of which girls (%)                                                    49
EBC (Grades 5-6)                                                      16,615
of which girls (5)                                                    50
Secondary (Grades 7-11)                                               12,511
Repetition Rates (%)
EBE                                                                      20
EBC                                                                       19
Dropout Rates (9)
in EBE                                                                   20
in EBC                                                                    33
Promotion to Secondary from EBC completers (%)                                   52
Secondary Graduates                                                           2,205
Number of Teachers
EBE                                                                     1907
EBC                                                                     569
Secondary                                                               337
Student/Teachers Ratio
EBE                                                                      30
EBC                                                                      29
Secondary                                                                37
Number of Classrooms                                                          1,278
EBE                                                                     720
EBC                                                                     272
Rented (EBE)                                                            286



43
Annex 2
Paae 3 of 3
School Infrastructure for EBE and EBC schools combined, by Municipality (SY1993-94)
Municipality/  Nunber of Number of  Students/  Number of   Classes/    Rented   As % of all
Conselho     Students   schools    school      Classes     school     Classes     dasses
Boavista              740          9         82          19        2.1           0        0%
Brava                1426         1 1       130         34         3.1          3         9%
Mosteiros           2076          12        173         33         2.8          7       21%
S. Filipe           5374          28        192        100         3.6         26       26%
Maio                1299          12        108         29         2.4          3        10%
Sal                 2100           6        350         36         6.0          4        11%
Praia              19721          68        290        324         4.8         60        19%
S. Catarina         8989          51        176        170         3.3         38       22%
S. Cruz             6188          34        182        104         3.1         15        14%
Tarrafal            5619          33        170         94         2.8          7         7%
R. Grande           4341          31        140         90         2.9         14        16%
Paul                1705          12        142         34         2.8          4        12%
Porto Novo          3249          30        108         71         2.4         12        17%
S. Nicolau          2663          23        116         62         2.7          3         5%
S. Vicente         12326          29        425        202         7.0         24        12%
TOTAL              77816         389        200       1402         3.6        220        16%
Source: Cenario de Generalizacao da Reforma do Ensino Basico; GEP, MOES.
Student Enrollments by Conselho (SY 92/3 and 93/94)
Municipality/    Enrollments     Enrollments     % Change
Conselho        1992/1993       1993/1994
Boavista              754             740            (1.9)
Brava                 1386            1426            2.9
Fogo                  7048            7373            4.6
Maio                  1241            1299            4.7
Sal                  2088             2100            0.6
Praia                18698           19721            5.5
S. Catarina           8338            8989            7.8
S. Cruz               5747            6188            7.7
Tarrafal              5442            5619            3.2
Paul                  1686            1705            1.1
P. Novo               3048            3249            6.6
R. Grande             4031            4341           7.7
S. Nicolau           2564             2663            3.9
S. Vicente           11453           12326           7.6
TOTAL                73,524          77,739          5.7






44
Annex 3
Page I of 3
PROFILE AND RECRUITMENT PROCESS FOR PEDAGOGIC COORDINATORS AND DIRECTORS
SUPERVISION IN THE INTEGRATED BASIC EDUCATION SYSTEM (EBI)
Specifications for the New Coordinator and Director Roles
I - Coordinators
1.     During the experimental phase
1.1    Justification for the supervision process
This supervisory role has been established specifically to maintain the level of scientific quality in the various
subjects during the experimental phase. Indeed, several pedagogical options introduced through the EBI system
make these precautionary measures appropriate:
(a)    The integrated education approach. Before the reforms, a relatively precarious mastery of a subject on
the teacher's part was less detrimental than today, in so far as the teacher could closely follow a textbook
for teachers on the subject, the same as those for students, but with the answers to exercises. The teacher
took no initiative; his task was narrowly, but very precisely, defined. Each subject matter had its
guidebook and digressions from it were the exception. In the EBI system, by contrast, the teacher is
constantly called upon to adapt himself to his class's level of understanding, and to emphasize the overall
nature of the learning taking place. Sometimes this learning loses its formal and systematic character, as
with grammar or verb conjugations, and becomes circumstantial and casual. This new teaching method
demands a much more permanent readiness and better subject knowledge on the teacher's part.
(b)    The EBI system requires that all teachers be able to teach from the 1st to 6th grades in all subjects. Even
in the third cycle, the EBI system introduces the principle of one teacher only per classroom where, up
until now, the teacher was responsible for only one subject and for a two-year program (EBC). This
entails expanded pedagogical training and requires greater knowledge.
(c)    The introduction of an automatic assessment system within each cycle and of standardized testing
between cycles requires that careful attention be given to preparing predictive diagnostic tests at the end
of every other year, so that subsequent collective deficiencies may be identified and corrected. The
possibility of exposing the whole class to the risk of having difficulty with the end-of-cycle standardized
tests must at all costs be avoided.
1.2    Coordinators' profile
For the reasons stated above, and to justify the supervision, coordinators used to be teachers with a generally
much deeper scientific background than other primary school teachers. They were sometimes teachers trained at
the Pedagogic Institute or Secondary Teachers' Training School and the majority had a bachelor's or associate's
degree.  Consequently, the scientific "supervision", in the strict sense of the word, was satisfactory, but
experience has shown that pedagogical supervision, especially direct help with methodology, has not always
occurred. The latter was sometimes limited to a progress check within the program and to verification of the
exactness of the material, without any teaching assistance in the strict sense of the word. Only three subjects were
covered by this supervision: Portuguese, Mathematics and General Science, which means that none of the
expressive activities (Physical Education, Sculpture and Music) benefited from it.



45
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
2.     During the generalization phase
2.1    The need to maintain supervision
Current conditions are no longer comparable to the situation at the beginning of the experimental phase. Today,
every teacher appointed to teach in the 1st, 3rd and 5th grades beginning in September, 1994 has received the
training needed to teach at the level of studies in question. The same will be true in September, 1995 for the three
other grades. This does not mean, however, that supervision becomes useless, but that the needs are different.
Obviously, the risk of subject-related errors being made in teaching is not eliminated, but it has been reduced as
compared to the past. On the other hand, in the area of pedagogical support, constructive help remains essential
(as regards not only the program's relative progress, but especially its pertinence, taking into account the pupils'
actual skills). This supervision through personalized counseling should be maintained throughout the EBI
consolidation project period so as to permit the introduction of a program to evaluate the actual performance
profiles for those pupils leaving the program in 1996, 97 and 98, with adjustments being made as necessary.
Furthermore, the assistance given by the Coordinators should be extended to all of the EBI program's sections,
not only Portuguese, Mathematics and General Science, but also the areas of Physical Education, Music and
Plastic Arts. To neglect these aspects of education would bolster the feeling (already too widespread) that there
are 'noble' branches of learning and lesser ones or, in any event, that some subjects merit more attention than
others.  Because no one reacted against these distinctions during basic education, entire segments of the
educational system remain permanently neglected for children whose family environment does not compensate for
the school's failings.
2.2     Desirable Rrofile - Recruitine terms - Length of contract
2.2.1   Profile elements
Ideally, a Coordinator should from the start have demonstrated undisputed pedagogical qualities, and also
displayed a sufficient mastery of the various subjects at different levels of the EBI program. Moreover, he should
have developed an interest or shown a particular skill in a specific field. This latter aspect of the profile is
justified by the fact that the Coordinator should to some extent appear, at the Concelho level, to be the resource
person for a specific subject, while also being, of course, an accomplished generalist.
2.2.2   Recruitment conditions
The idea would be to offer a special training program designed to confirm in their role of "trainers", under the
title 'Coordinator", those 'Teacher-tutors" who successfully carry out their mission in 1994 and 1995 and on
whom a rapid assessment could be made. If the number of candidates meeting the requirements associated with
this training program exceeded demand, those graduates not immediately appointed would make up a priority
reserve pool for later recruiting.
II - Directors
1.     Justification for the position
An educational establishment's good operation, the motivation and qualifications of its personnel and their good
relationships with the pupils' parents and other members of the community, as well as the quality of teaching,
depends to a great extent on its director's skills and human qualities.



46
Annex 3
Page 3 or 3
In particular, the generalization of EBI reforms considerably increases the responsibilities in terms of managing
human resources, as well as technical equipment and even the school's own resources.
2.     Need for training
The days are gone when the position of school director was de facto, if not de jure, awarded to the most
experienced teachers without creating any major problems for the school's administration. Nothing could be more
erroneous than to suppose that it is enough to have been an excellent teacher in order to make a good director.
Management cannot be improvised any more in teaching than in business. Performing the job requires at least a
grounding in administrative management as well as pedagogical management. These needs exist all over the
world, and today training content and methods schemes are widely circulated through written documents,
seminars, and most recently, long-distance video-teaching processes, associated with other actions. UNESCO,
notably, has produced a methodology guide that, with the necessary adaptations to the educational system in
question, serves both as a frame of reference for managing schools on a daily basis and as a support for the
training and self-training of the personnel involved. A technical note regarding possible organization in the form
of modules, description of course contents and of the practical knowledge envisaged, along with an execution
schedule, is now being produced. (UNDP-Unesco Proposal)
3.     The School Director's job within the EBI system
The supervisory personnel presently assigned to an EBE or an EBC school are intended to merge into the EBI
system of complete schools for up to six years of study. Today, the definition of 'school" is hardly clear. "The
school" does not necessarily correspond to one geographic location. It frequently happens that several "annexes",
even when relatively dispersed, together make up one school. The only rule is that as soon as there is an EBE
level and an EBC level, there are necessarily two "schools".
This situation is intended to change. A socio-architectural study will examine how to progressively carry out the
conversion of sites as a function of the educational system's new structure and school demographics. It stands to
reason, however, that establishments will be far from uniform because of the very large variations in population
density. Everything supports the belief that in many places schools will continue to occupy two or three
locations, while large educational complexes will multiply in and around a few large urban centers. In this
regard, everything should be done to limit a school to a maximum of twelve classrooms. Anything larger than
this norm has particularly harmful effects on education.
Large differences in student numbers can pose cost problems, taking into account the custom that the director's
job is a full-time one. For the moment it could be assumed that the director performs no teaching duties in
schools with six or more classes (with a maximum of twelve). When a school has less than six classes, the
director would collect the director's bonus, but he would also have to teach one class.
So as to guarantee maximum flexibility, it would be beneficial for the director's job to be set up on an indefinite
basis, with renewable contracts.
ISee the note relative to "Updating the Training of the 1,250 teachers selected to take over the 1st, 3rd or 5th EBI
grades in September, 1994", the so-called "Emergency" training.
Projecto de Renovacao e Extensao do Ensino Basico II (PREBA II), table No 13, page 35.






47
Annex 4
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
TEXTBOOK COMPONENT OF THE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Context of the component:
1.     The books currently used in basic education are produced or bought on the market by the Ministry of
Education and Sports (MES). They are deposited with the Education Delegations (DEs) and with private
bookstores and are sold to the students for between 49 and 70% of their purchase price. The books are
nevertheless beyond the reach of most pupils and are only available in the cities of Praia and Mindelo. Basic
teaching suffers as a consequence from a lack of textbooks due to the relatively high prices and the shortcomings
of the distribution network. The lack is especially acute among children from low-income families in both cities
and rural areas.
2.     In order to support the EBI programs whose introduction in the 1st, 3rd and 5th grades was postponed
until September, 1994, the textbooks component in the first education project provided, among other objectives,
for the production and distribution of 35 titles. This program represents a total printing of around 440,000
volumes. Its execution resulted in the following:
(a)    after international competitive bidding 2 student textbooks were printed in 84,000 copies and delivered in
August, 1993. A portion of this printing served to test the distribution network for EBI books during the
1993/94 school year.
(b)    6 student textbooks and 9 teachers' guides are being printed. The total run is 257,500 copies and
delivery is expected in August, 1994.
(c)    9 student textbooks and the corresponding teachers' guides are being tried out. As a result of the
extension of Loan 1853 CV, 184,500 copies will be printed and distributed in September, 1995.
Comionent objectives:
3.     The textbooks component of the second education project proposes: (a) to proceed with the first
reprinting of the textbooks and teachers' guides produced as part of the first project;  (b) to increase the
availability of books and to improve their accessibility; (c) to improve the organization and functioning of the
School Publishing Fund (FES); and (d) to train and/or upgrade the personnel of the Production Unit for Technical
Material (UPMD) in the field of educational book publishing.
Actions to be taken:
4.     To attain the objective set above, the following actions will be taken:
4.1    Reprinting: To replenish the inventory acquired under the first education project, the textbooks and
teachers' guides for mathematics, Portuguese and general science for the Ist, 3rd, and 5th grades will be reprinted
in 1997/1998 and those for the 2nd, 4th and 6th grades in 1998-1999. Printing services will be procured through
intemational competitive bidding, beginning with the film of the first editions. Before the Credit becomes
effective, the Govemment will assure that the originals, diskettes and the film of the books for the 1st, 3rd, and
5th grades have been recovered and stored in an suitable location.



48
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
4.2    Availability and accessibility: To improve the availability of books and bring them within reach of most
pupils, the second education project will take the following measures:
(a)    The books will be delivered, as under the current project, to the MES stores at Praia and Mindelo. The
Praia store will place a portion of its inventory in the Sotavento Islands DE and the Mindelo store will do
the same for the Barlavento Islands. The shipping costs of the books from the ports of Praia and Mindelo
to the MES stores and from these to the DEs will be financed by the project.
(b)    To make the books more accessible, the prices will be set as follows:
(i)    At the MES stores at Praia, Mindelo and at the DEs, the books will be sold at cost as
obtained through international competitive bids plus 7% to cover domestic shipping and
handling. This price will apply to the following customers:
. Private bookstores;
. Schools that buy in minimum lots of 40 copies; and
. the Cape Verde Institute for Social Action (ICASE).
(ii)    The cost of shipping the books to the MES and DE stores and to private bookstores and
schools will be borne by these customers.
(iii)    The bookstore sales price (or public price) will be the selling price to the MES stores
and the DEs plus 15% to cover the bookstores' distribution margin. To avoid the numerous
arrears of payments experienced by MES in the past, the books will be remitted to the
bookstores upon presentation of a payment receipt on the FES account at the end of each
trimester.
(iv)    On those islands where there are private bookstores, the DEs will not be able to sell
books to individuals. In those islands where there are no private bookstores, they will be
authorized to sell books at the public price and to keep 15% of the revenues to improve their
operations. They will remit the other 85 % to the FES account at the end of each trimester.
(v)    To allow needy pupils (who represent about 50% of the student body) to obtain books,
about 50% of the printings will be sold to the ICASE. This sale will be financed by the
ICASE's own funds, supplemented by a government subsidy, and the total will be deposited in
the FES account. The ICASE will make the books available to the pupils through a rental
system.
(vi)    A part of the teachers' guides will be distributed to the schools which will lend them to
the teachers on a yearly basis. The other part will be sold to teachers who wish to have their
own personal copies. The accounts for the revenues resulting from this sale will be separate
from those of the FES revenues.
(c)    The FES's organization and operation: All the revenues resulting from the sale of students' books
acquired under the first and second education projects and the subsidies granted by the government will be
deposited in the FES account. Given that the first reprinting of the books will be financed by the second project,
the sums deposited in the account will be used to finance only the subsequent reprintings.
(d)    Training of UPMD personnel: UPMD personnel will be trained in composing text, illustration and
graphic design of textbooks.



ORGANOGRAMA DO MINISTERIO DA EDUCACAO
APOI0
CONSULTATI V
COORDINACAO   APOIO                                                                             CONTROLE E       CARACTER OPERATIVO                       ORGANISHOS E SERVICIO
HORIZONTAL    DIRECT                APOIO TECNICO                                               AVAL IACAO                                                AUTONOMOS
* U U E
*NIVEIS E U
U*HIERRAQtUIAU
CONSELHO                                                                                                                                                                     Q
MACIONAL                                                                                                                                                             NIVEIS*
DA                                                                                                                                                                CENTRAL
EDUCACAO  I                                                                          lbINISTRO                                                                               Q
DA EDUCACAO D
CONSELNO   I                                                                                                                                                          DIRECCOES
NINIST.                                                                                       I                                                                       GERAIS DO
EDUCACAO                                                                                                                                                              EQU I PARADO E
GABINETO DE ESTUDIOS                  DIRECCAO GERAL DA        INSPECCAO         DIRECCAO GERAL DA   DIRECCAO GERALID                   C     O
E                            ADMINISTRACAO            GERAL             EDUCACAO             DP ENSINO       ALOCAO SOCIAL    COORDENADO
PLANEAMENTO (GEP)                               (DGA)           (IG)             EXTRA-ESCOLAR                        ESCOLAR (ICASE) DO EhSINO 1
(DGEX)
. . . . . . . . . . .  .. . . . .............   .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...    .. . . . .    ... .   .. . .. .   .. . .. .   .. . . . . .. . . . .  ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
DIRECCAG 1    |DIRECCAO | |DIRECCAO DE   I CENTRO DE
.T OIST OS    TSCAOLA   |FORNACAO E        ORIENT.ESCOL.
GAB NETO DO    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~STXIO                                     SCLR       ORIENT.ESCDL../EPOSIO*
IZINISTERIO III| II,' 
|DA EDUCACAO|                                                                             
a                                      I I                r-                  --I                 I               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIRECCOEMS
REPARTICAO       I     DIV.      INTRO                                V.   DIV.       DIV.      DIV.DO     DIV.       DIV.   IV.       DDE SERVICIO
DE           D                  I DE      IDE      DE       ACTIV. IREC.  ORGANIZ.  ADNIN.   ESTWIOS   ACCAO          ADMIN.  ORIENT.  TECNOL.              DO EQUIPAR.
EXPEDIENTES IESTLWIOS IPLANTA.  ESTATIS.C          DOCI.E           NUEV.  E METCDO                RE    E       I                      DU
INFORM.                                     COTOEDIVISION.E
REPARTICOES
LOCAL    It >
BHOAVEIROS |   H + +                                                                 |TA R R OGO  SAAGO  SANTO    A          C                  DELEGACOES       x
I                  [      NI                                     ANTAO            I
I  I  I  I                                                                        ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUB-  -hh
DELEGACOE S
NOSTEIROS  PRAIA  STA         STA       TARRAGAL    THUL    PORTO    RI~~~~~~~:;BEDIRAS.IEE
CATARINA  CRUZ                 NOVO     GRA~~~~~NDE






so
Annex 6
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
RESTRUCTURING TECHNICAL EDUCATION
1.     Background for reference.
There is only one school for technical education at Cape Verde, the Industrial and Business School at Mindelo. A
similar school is being constructed in Praia. Its stated objective is to train young people who have finished their
supplementary basic education to become skilled workers over three years.
The establishment's organizational standards and operating rules are of a strictly academic nature. Far removed
from the realities of the workplace, of whose qualitative and quantitative needs it is unaware, it is conceived and
set up solely to complement the curriculum of the primary schools. That explains: (a) a constant increase in the
number of students in training (from 550 in 1989 to 1,260 in 1993) that is not justified by the needs of the labor
market, (b) a lengthening of the training period, of which over two thirds is devoted to an academic curriculum;
(c) reintegration of the majority of graduates into the general educational system; and finally, (d) the fact that less
than 25% of the graduates find jobs, which are not always in the sector and at the level for which they were
trained.
A survey of about fifteen companies (see the analysis of the results attached) revealed that their need for skilled
workers was largely met, either by the various existing training centers or by their own means. On the other
hand, their needs for general technicians are not being properly met; this training is not ensured by any
establishment, and they do not provide it themselves because of organizational and financial constraints.
Law #103-III-90 of December, 1990 established the general organization of Cape Verde's educational system.
Within this framework, technical education is part of secondary education, which is divided into three cycles of
two years each, the first cycle being a common-core syllabus (7th and 8th grades), and the following two
comprising a general course and a technical course (9th and 10th grades, then I 1th and 12th grades). Access to
technical education follows upon graduation from the 8th grade.
Graduates from the new Basic Integrated School, given the cumulative effect of the introduction of automatic
promotion and the increase in the percentage of children in full-time education, will exert more and more pressure
on secondary education as implementation of the EBI becomes general.
2.     Restructuring principles and modes.
a)     Training of skilled workers at the Mindelo school will be halted by its progressive phasing out beginning
with the 1995/1996 school year. Equipment and teaching personnel that served exclusively for this
training will be transferred to professional training centers, public or private. This type of training
should not be started in the future Praia school, as envisaged in the original plan. On the other hand,
some common core syllabus classes in general education for the 7th and 8th grades will be opened there
at the beginning of the 95/96 school year.
b)     Technical education will be reserved exclusively for training intermediate technicians in existing or
planned programs and for whom equipment is currently available, in part or in full: electrical, general
mechanics, civil engineering, data processing and business.



5S
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
c)     Admission will be through competitive examination for students graduating from the 8th grade and going
into the 9th grade, i.e. since entry into this grade is a prerequisite for an orientation to technical
education, it is this orientation that is determined by the examination results, not entry into the grade.
d)     The need for intermediate technicians remains limited in a quantitative sense; hence, in order to control
the matriculation and graduation flows, and thus avoid the risk of an increase in students not justified by
the need for qualified personnel, the principle of a numerus clausus must be introduced. For the duration
of the project and based on available information, the combined flow from the two establishments will be
limited to 120 - 130 graduates per year, given that there will be 20 to 24 students per class, one class per
year and per subject and three specialities in each of the establishments, namely 480 students in all.
3.     Organization of technical education schools.
Those students entering the 9th grade and selected through competitive examination for technical education will
all follow a one-year core syllabus in which they will receive the scientific grounding and technological and
methodological introduction that will enable them to continue the training, via successive specializations, towards
their choice of professional fields of endeavor, beginning in the 10th grade.
The Mindelo School's theoretical capacity limit is 1,200 and that of the future Praia School will be 720. The
student body in technical education having been limited to 240 for each school, there will, therefore, be
significant space available for allocation to general education which will permit the reduction of overcrowding
among students returning to secondary schools in the two largest urban centers. The technical schools will
thereby become multi-purpose high schools that, beginning in the 1995/1996 school year, will offer core syllabus
classes in general education for the 7th and 8th grades.  The new  technical education system should be
implemented at the beginning of the 1996/1997 school year.



52
Annex 6
Page 3 of4
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
COMPANY SURVEY: ANALYSIS OF THE RESULTS
1.     The survey: Scope and objectives.
During its visit in May, 1993, the appraisal mission decided to conduct a survey through interviews with a
number of employers to: (i) obtain a better appreciation of their labor needs; (ii) seek their views of problems
with training; and (iii) test the hypotheses that inspired the technical education restructuring project.
Fifteen companies from various business sectors were randomly chosen in Praia from an exhaustive list recently
drawn up by the Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Affairs. Thirteen could be reached. Most of the interviews
took place with the head of personnel, sometimes with the managing director. An interview guide was set up for
information only, to give some structure to the discussions.
2.     The results.
The division of qualifications into three levels (senior staff, intermediate-level employees and operatives) is almost
uiniversal in the form of a more or less regular pyramid. To all appearances, these companies have the necessary
human resources. In fact, the figures presented are deceptive, for one must distinguish between the division ot
iobs by qualification level and the allocation of people according to their real qualifications. For example, a
senior position is not necessarily occupied by someone who has the corresponding qualifications.
2.1.   Training for general technicians.
This discrepancy is particularly significant among intermediate-level employees. Excluding a travel company and
shipping agency whose training needs are very specific and are satisfied in-house, in the other companies nearly
all of the middle technician jobs are filled by persons without the requisite qualifications. Most employers
allocate (or would like to allocate) a lot of time, energy and money to complete their training, most often abroad,
since the scope for training at this level in Cape Verde is limited. The Caixa Economica, for example, offers its
employees a correspondence course in bank training. Two-thirds of the course content is general training in such
subjects as business, accounting, data-processing techniques, languages, etc.
It is in business, broadly speaking (accounting, management, banking, insurance), and to a lesser extent in the
civil engineering sector, that managers appear to be the most sensitive to training issues. They address them in a
more effective way than in other sectors by researching and proposing solutions better adapted to their needs.
Hence, not only do they want to contribute to the planning of the training system but demand the right to
participate in its implementation (defining goals, producing the content, testing the results, etc.).
In every case, as regards the training of general technicians, they want training schools, whose specialty this is, to
be responsible for all training that constitutes a general base of knowledge common to an entire branch of activity
(business, civil engineering). On this base the companies themselves can in various ways develop a specialization
adapted to their own specific needs.



53
Annex 6
Pare 4 of4
2.2.    Training of operatives
All the managers agree that their companies do not have any particular difficulties in training their operatives.
Either they are satisfied with the qualifications of people graduating from training centers such that at San
Jorginho, particularly for some basic trades (woodworkers, electricians, masons..), or they offer on-the-job
training themselves.
2.3     Training senior staff
Companies do not encounter major problems in recruiting senior staff. Cape Verde has been able, up until now,
to cover its needs in different sectors by intensive use of training scholarships abroad. Despite the losses that
have occurred among the mass of students sent abroad for training, a significant portion is recovered for the good
of the economy and the society.
3.      Placing EICM graduates.
Assessments of the graduates from the Industrial and Commercial School of Mindelo vary, but whether eulogistic
or critical, they are always accompanied by one significant reservation. Recruitment of these graduates is not
easy, for there is a difference of opinion between the employer and the applicant as to his classification in the
qualifications scale and, consequently, in the salary scale. For the company, taking into account the training plan
set up by the School, they are skilled workers. The graduate, however, has higher pretensions due to his level of
general education and the length of his training, which was artificially extended to increase the age at which he
graduates from school. He believes that he would be under-qualified for a job as a skilled worker, and aspires to
a position as a supervisor or general technician. Generally, he ends up getting his way because the company
actually needs middle-level staff. For want of anything better, it accepts these individuals and assigns them to
jobs as general technicians where, through practice and additional training, they end up performing satisfactorily
and meeting the job requirements.



54
Annex 7
Page 1 Of 4
CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Proposed Articles of Establishment of TSF
TOR for Executive Committee and functions of Fund administration included in Chapter III
INTRODUCTION
The Training and Employment Promotion Fund, hereinafter referred to as the Fund, is hereby established as a
juridical person with administrative, technical and financial autonomy, with the objective to increase employment
through: the financing of training projects.
GENERAL
Article 1
The Fund shall perform its activities pursuant to the Legislation of the Republic of Cape Verde and to this statute.
The domicile of the Fund is the city of Praia.
Its activity will be extended over the entire territory of the Republic of Cape Verde and it may open offices in
other cities within Cape Verde as necessary.
CHAPTER I
Fund's Activities
Article 2
The Fund will promote and finance different projects for job training and insertion, contracting with different
juridical persons for this purpose. The financing of these projects, conditions related to the following points shall
be met:
1.     The duration of skills training;
2.     The content of this training; and
3.     Placement of the trained people.
Artide 3
The Fund will promote and finance different projects for training. The projects will be subject to requirements on
the duration of skills training to be provided by the training organization and on placement guarantees and other
technical requirements to be foreseen in the related contracts of the Fund.
Article 4
The fund may finance other projects than those described in Articles 2 and 3 of this statue, by decision of its
Board, provided that these projects will serve to achieve the objectives of the Fund and are subject to the
conditions stated in the Regulations and the Status.
Artide 5
The Fund will decide to finance different projects after analyzing project proposals initiated by public and/or
private juridical persons. The execution of the projects financed by the Fund is the responsibility of the private or
public juridical person contracted for that purpose. The fund, however, will exercise technical and financial
supervision to ensure projects are implemented as agreed.



55
Annex 7
Pane 2 of 4
Article 6
In order to perform its activities, the Fund may delegate some of these functions to Regional Employment Offices
of the Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Affairs, by mutual agreement.
CHAPTER 11
The Sources
Artide 7
The Fund's revenues and resources are: Resources assigned by IDA;
Artide 8
The financial resources of the Fund are deposited in independent back accounts in Cape Verde Escudos and
foreign currency and will be distributed to different projects.
CHAPTER m
Fund's Organizational Structure
Artide 9
Tle governing bodies of the Fund are:
1.     The Executive Committee;
2.     The President of the Executive Committee;
3.     The Institute for Employment and Training, to act as the Secretariat.
Artide 10
The Executive Committee, heretofore referred to as "the Committee", shall be composed as follows:
1.     The Minister for Labor, Youth and Social Affairs;
2.     The Minister of Education;
3.     The Minister of Commerce, Tourism, Industry and Energy;
4.     Four representatives of private entrepreneurs nominated by the two largest private entrepreneurs
organizations;
5.     Four representatives of the Labor Union non govemment Organizations.
Committee members shall receive no remuneration for their services except for direct costs of travel and per diem
associated with attendance at Fund meetings which will be provided by the Fund itself.
Artide 11
The Committee holds it ordinary meetings every month on the initiative and the direction of the President of the
Executive Committee his alternate. The extraordinary meetings are held as often as necessary on the initiative of
the Chairman.
Meetings will be held with the attendance of at least five (5) committee members and decisions will be taken by
majority of votes.
The Committee may invite the representatives of other public and private agencies to its meetings. Such
representatives should have voice but no vote.
Artide 12
The Committee shall have the following duties:



56
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
1.     approve the Regulations of the Fund and its structure;
2.     approve the policies and general guidelines regulating the Fund's activities;
3.     approve project financing proposals for amounts exceeding the corresponding value in escudos of US$
5,000;
4.     approve the Fund's annual budget;
5.     approve the annual financial report;
6.     authorize certain persons to negotiate on behalf of the Fund;
7.     enter into agreements with the Government of Cape Verde and international financial institutions as
necessary to achieve its purposes.
Article 13
The Training Component Coordinator (the Coordinator) in the Project Coordination Unit of the Ministry of
Economic Coordination shall have the following duties:
1.     approve the project financing proposals up to corresponding amount in escudos of US$ 5,000. For this
purpose only, meetings will be held in the presence of all Committee members and decisions shall be
taken by the majority of the votes. In case there is no majority, the decision shall be taken by the
Director.
2.     prepare and propose to the Committee the implementing Regulations of the Fund for approval.
Article 14
'Te Director shall be the highest executive authority of the Fund, shall be named and removed by the Executive
Committee and shall meet the professional requirements related to his function.
Article 15
The Director shall have the following duties:
1.     hold the Fund's legal representation;
2.     direct the operations of the Fund and implement the decisions of the Executive Committee;
3.     manage the resources of the Fund;
4.     sign the pertinent contracts for professional and technical services; and
5.     contract with the Executive Comrnittee's authorization extemal auditors to control the financial activity
of the Fund.
The other duties of the Director shall be assigned by the Regulations of the Fund.
Article 16
The work relations of the staff shall be regulated by the clauses of the signed professional and technical contracts,
which shall be subject to Cape Verdian law.
Staff expenses shall be financed with the Fund's resources.
CHAPTER V
Article 17
Internal auditing shall be carried out by the Fund's auditors who are responsible for monitoring the Fund's
budgetary implementation and financial operations.
The internal auditors shall be headed by a Chief Auditor directly appointed by the Minister for Labor, Youth and
Social Affairs, and he shall report directly to the Executive Committee.
The Internal Auditors of the Fund shall have the following duties:



57
Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
1.     submit quarterly reports to the Executive Committee on the results of their investigations with respect to
each Fund's financing activity;
2.     report monthly to the Executive Committee on the implementation of the administrative budget;
3.     submit suggestions to the Executive Committee on the operations of the accounting system so  that  it
takes the actions it deems convenience; and
4.     perform monitoring actions, without placing obstacles on the decision-making process, restricting itself
to making suggestions it deems convenient in the quarterly reports.
Artide 18
The Fund shall be subject to extemal auditing by independent international auditors. Reports from the Extemal
Auditors shall be reviewed by the Executive Committee for the corresponding legal action.
CHAPTER VI
Final and Temporary Provisions
Artide 19
The Fund shall be exempt from any type of taxes, fees in case this is a provision into govemment agreements for
financing the activities of this Fund.
Article 20
By the proposal of the Director, the Executive Committee can decide on changes in this status, except for Articles
1, 6, 9, 11, 13/c, d, 15/1, 20/a, 22, 23, which can be changed only by the decision of the Council of Ministers
proposed by the Ministry for Labor, Youth and Social Affairs. The proposals for changing the status have to be
motivated. They have to be approved by the Executive Committee by a two-thirds majority of votes.
Artide 21
The Executive Committee may decide to dissolve the Fund and submit this decision to the Council of Ministers
for their approval. For this purpose only, the extraordinary meeting will be held with the presence of all the
members of the Executive Committee and the decision shall be taken by a three-fourths of the majority of the
votes. If the Fund is to be dissolved, the Minister for Labor, Youth and Social Affairs should constitute a
Committee to liquidate it, which shall have the following duties:
1.     transfer to the pertinent governmental bodies or institutions, with the projects not yet completed to
comply with all pending responsibilities;
2.     transfer all the financial resources and all other assets from the Fund to the corresponding governmental
bodies; and
3.     submit the report of its activities to the Minister for Labor, Youth and Social Affairs and to the agencies
he deems convenient.



58
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
APPRENTICESHIP
The role and importance of apprenticeship has long been recognized by Cape Verdian leaders; Law 51 A/89 of
June 20, 1089 and its revision 101/IV/93 of December 31, 1993 contain the provisions needed for the
organization and development of this form of training, which had, until recently, had been relatively
marginalized.
Since the publication of this law, two experiments have been carried out by the former Secretariat of State for
Employment, with Government financing. The results have been positive in the main. These two experiments
provide a significant reference base for launching an apprenticeship development program as part of the Basic
Education and Training Project.
1.     The objectives of the new apprenticeship development program:
Compared to the earlier experiments, the apprenticeship program will be more extensive and more diversified:
(a)    geographically, it will have to involve islands other than Santiago and Sao Vicente, particularly the
islands of Fogo, Santo antao, Brava and Maio;
(b)    sectorally, it will have to focus on a larger number of economic sectors, both in the structured modem
sector and in the informal traditional sector; while pursuing actions aimed at job-related training, the
emphasis will be placed on those that will facilitate self-employment;
(c)    quantitatively, it will have to serve 900 young people, i.e. 150-200 apprentices per year, the average
contract length being 18 months, with variations ranging between six and 30 months.
2.     Procedures for operating the program:
Under the superv-sion of the Bureau de Planification de I'Emploi et de la Formation (the Bureau), the
Employment Centers will be responsible for implementing the program and, in particular, for: (a) drawing up
apprenticeship contracts between the host agency (the employer) and the apprentice, (b) drawing up contracts with
the Training Centers for the pedagogical monitoring of the young people in training, (c) checking on statements of
expenses and the application of the payment and disbursement procedures, (d) preparing quarterly balance sheets
on the basis of reports of visits by supervisors and reports from the Training Centers.
The young people will be divided into groups of 10 to 12 apprentices under the supervision of a trainer, who will
be in charge of the pedagogical monitoring of each of them, from the setting of training objectives and the
drawing up of the apprenticeship plan through to the final evaluation.
Each Center will also be responsible for bringing its group together for one hour per day, one hour per week or
one week per month, depending on the possibilities and constraints of the individual centers, in order to
supplement and strengthen what has been learned from the apprenticeship with general classroom training.
3.     Implementation of the activities:
The activities will be carried out in four phases:



59
Annex 8
Pae 2 or 2
(a)    preparation phase: data collection and development of procedures; this will essentially involve the
Bureau and the Employment Centers;
(b)    programming phase: identification of accommodation and training capacity, mobilization of resources,
signature of contracts; this will be handled entirely by the Employment Centers:
(c)    execution phase: placement of apprentices and launching of operations; the Training Centers with
supervisors are mobilized around the Employment Centers;
(d)    monitoring and supervision phase: periodic inspection and status reports; the supervisors on a monthly
basis, the Training Centers and Employment Centers on a quarterly basis, and the Bureau on a weekly
basis, will keep track of the program's progress.
4.     Reguirements for 300 apprenticeships:
Islands involved                No. of        No. of apprenticeship     No. of supervisors
apprentices over two-          sites
year period
Santiago                  100                      20                       3
Sao Vincente                100                      20                       3
Fogo                     40                       8                       2
Sao Antao                  40                       8                        2
Brava                    10                       2                        1
Maio                     10                       2                        1
TOTAL                     300                      60                      12



60
Annex 9
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Local Professional Training Scholarship Programs
Introduction
1.     The Government, in order to make the private sector the engine of economic growth,. has embarked on a
program of privatizing public sector enterprises (Technical Assistance and Privatization Project, Cr. -V) and
reforming the public sector and building capacity (Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project, Cr. ).
Historically, the private sector in Cape Verde has been active on a limited scale in commerce, fishing and services
only, primarily linked with commercial interests in Portugal. The Government has been taking a dominant role
and invested in the social sectors, infrastructure and public sector enterprises to provide essential distribution,
communications and transport services. With the withdrawal of the Government from transport, distribution,
manufacturing and commercial services. the private sector is beginning to build-up capacity, including the
capacity and expertise of its personnel, to take over these functions. However,. expansion of the private sector is
likely to require substantial skill development and labor market policies are beginning to adopt this orientation.
2.     Cape Verde has only one post-secondary (Professional) schools and no university and the private sector is
encountering difficulties in training its personnel, or recruiting already trained middle or higher level professional
personnel. Surveys of employment and enterprises show that intermediate level personnel represent only 1 % of
the work force. Interviews with enterprises indicate that they are unable to find suitably qualified professionals,
particularly at the intermediate level. This shortage is becoming a serious handicap in building private sector
capacity. Presently, the primary source for professional personnel is the Government supported overseas
scholarship program for middle and higher level personnel for essential public services such as education, health
and economic management. However, the program is ineffective and poorly managed and shortages continue in
the public as well as the private sectors because many students do not return.
3.     Recently, two private proprietary professional schools have opened up (with Govemnment financial
assistance) and attracted fee-paying students for correspondence and cooperative programs with accredited schools
and universities abroad, using local specialists as teachers. However, the programs are small (10 to 12 students
each), expensive (USSl.000.OO/month per student), located only in Mindelo, and available in two fields of study
(management and economics). The substantial pent-up demand for professionally education in commercial.
business and technological fields can not be met by the two existing schools (and the Government scholarship
program). To address this situation. the Government intends to support the establishment of new professional
schools through a scholarship programs in strategic areas. The scholarships would be essentially local or in-
country to avoid the problems of overseas ones and would compensate for the high costs of cooperative programs
and for the lack of publicly supported post-secondary and university programs.



61
Annex 9
Page 2 of4
4.     The local scholarship professional education programs would be primarily for upgrading the skills of
already employed private (or public) sector workers or for new entrants to the labor force in cases where there is a
proven demand and employment opportunities. The organization of the programs and the links with overseas
accredited programs would be left to the initiative of local education entrepreneurs on the one hand, and
individuals, enterprises or groups on the other hand. The Government will be responsible for informing the
public about the program, determining cost-sharing contributions, establishing transparent procedures and
eligibility criteria. and disbursing scholarship contributions on the basis of performance, adherence to criteria and
completion of programs of studies.
OBJECTIVE, PROCEDURES. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AND CONTRIBUTIONS.
ProIram Objective.
5.     The objective of the professional training scholarship program is to support new local professional
education programs to be provided by the existing or new private schools offering bona-fide diplomas in
cooperation with schools and universities abroad to qualifying individuals or groups. The program would support
the upgrading of employed workers in strategic fields -for instance, law, management, finance, science,
engineering and computer science- on the basis of eligibility and cost-sharing criteria.
Pedure.
Functional Responsibilities.
6.     The Government has assigned the responsibility for the administration of the program to the Director of
the Institute for Employment and Training (IET) in the Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Promotion
(MLYSP). However, determining eligibility, allocation and awarding scholarships would be the responsibility of
the tripartite Executive Committee of the Training Fund established under the project. Payments would be made
by the Project Coordinator in the Ministry of Economic Coordination upon the request of the IET Director
together with proof of eligibility, progress and performance.
Information and Application Procedures.
7.     The Director of the IET would ensure that education entrepreneurs, individuals and enterprises would be
informed about the program through public information and advertisement directed at municipalities, enterprises,
schools and the public at large. He would make available a information prckage to interested parties which would
include: a description of the application procedures, eligibility criteria, performance indicators and potential
financial cost-sharing contributions.
8.     The existing private schools or educational entrepreneurs qualified and capable to establish new private
schools, would submit applications to form new professional education programs (for a minimum of four students
per program) to the Director of the IET. The Director would review the applications and make recommendations
to the Executive Committee (EC) on the basis of Governrment policies regarding regional distributions, sectoral
priorities, demand for skill development and availability of funds. He would however not have the authority to
reject or exclude applications.



62
Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
Evaluation and Award Procedures.
9.     The EC would evaluate the applications and the recommendation from the Director, review conformity
with policies and eligibility criteria, level of financing requested and availability of funds, and decide to
contribute to the program by voting. A majority vote would be required for financing of programs from project
funds.  The EC may request that applications which did not receive a majority vote but otherwise merit
reconsideration be changed by the applicants to meet policy and eligibility criteria. The Director would inform
the applicant of the decision of the EC and prepare a contract for each program for signature by the private school
and the EC.
Monitoring. Payment and Evaluation Procedures.
10.    The Director of the IET would monitor progress and performance of students in programs periodically,
preferably on a semester or semi-annual basis. He would prepare and submit monitoring reports to the Project
Coordinator with recommendations for payments, and to the EC for information or decisions to adjust or
terminate programs. The Project Coordinator would make payments to the private schools providing the training
on the basis of the conditions spelled out in the contract.
Eligibility Criteria.
11.    The following criteria would guide selection and contributions by the Executive Committee for
professional education programs proposed and delivered by private schools.
(a)    Program Proposal Evaluation Criteria.
-      Content: the program must follow a syllabus leading to a recognized diploma or certificate for
which there is a defined need in private or public sector enterprises.
-      Placement: students must be employed or be employed upon completion by a sponsoring
enterprise.
-      Duration: programs must not be longer than two years, a third year may be allowed by the
Executive Committee on an exceptional basis.
-      Proeram Strateey: a preparatory year may be allowed on an exceptional basis if the student does
not meet entry requirements. Support for a second or third year in that case would be subject to
above average pass on annual exams.
-      Support Services: the provider or private school must have qualified management, financial
control and local support services for delivery, evaluation and follow-up.
(b)    Contribution and Cost-sharing Criteria.
-      Total Contribution: the total contribution may not exceed US$5,000.00 per student per annum
or 80% of the program annual tuition fees per student whichever is less. The total number of
students may not exceed 20 students per annum with a minimum of four students per new
program.
-      Cost-sharing: the student, sponsor or private school must demonstrate that he or she as
beneficiary or sponsor pays at least 20 percent of the total annual costs of the program-



63
Annex 9
Pae 4 of4
(c)    Reimbursable costs.
-      The costs that may be included for reimbursement are: salaries for local and foreign teaching
and administrative staff; costs of instructional materials and books; the cost of overseas studies
at the cooperating school or university for no more than one semester for research, final
project or thesis if this can not be done in Cape Verde.
(d)     Administration.
-      The Director of the IET will review applications and make recommendations concerning
eligibility and level of contributions.
-      The Executive Committee will evaluate applications and recommendations, vote on eligibility
and level
-      of contributions.
-      The Director of the IET will monitor and report on progress and performance and verify
requests for payments by the private schools.
-      The Project Coordinator will process payments to the schools on the basis of the verification of
eligibility by the Director. Payments will be made on a monthly or semester basis for each
student in an approves program who has met performance and program standards.
118.   Promoting Professional Education.
-      maximum 3-year program (average 2 years);
-      collaborate with Bonafide, established institutions;
-      award Recognized Diploma;
-      meet Manpower/skill needs;
-      annual funding depending on success/passing exams;
-      total cost per student;
-      regional distribution;
-      student must meet entry requirements (Fund may pay for preparatory year);
-      nomination from local, municipalities, Employment centers.
119.   Cost Estimates (based on 100 students)
Ist    2nd      3rd      4th       5th      6th
Number of request    1       15      1S       20      20                           70st/year
2               12        12      16        16                56st/year
3                         3        3         4        4       14st/vear
140st/year
Assumption; dropout 20 %; only 1/4 of program has a third year.
Eligible programs: management (MBA); Accounting; Mechanical, Electrical, Electronics; Teachers (secondary);
public Administration; Planning, Architecture and Engineering; Banking and Finance.



64
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION, TRAINING AND LABOR MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CRITERIA AND REIMBURSABLE ACTIVITIES TO BE FINANCED BY THE TRANING SUPrPoRT FuND (TSF)
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE TSF
20.    The TSF will be used to purchase training services. The TSF would be established as an autonomous agency
created by the Council of Ministers. Its structure would include a tripartite committee acting as Board of Directors -the
Executive Committee for Training and Employment Promotion (ECTEP)- to review and approve the activities of the TSF.
The technical staff of the Institute for Employment and Training (IET) in the Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Affairs,
would provide technical evaluations of proposals to the ECTEP. Programs would be administrated by the Training
Component Coordinator in the Project Coordination Unit.
21.    The ECTEP would be independent but closely linked to the Employment Centers and training institutions under
the Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Affairs. For employment and training policies, the ECTEP would consult the
National Council for the Promotion of Employment and Training (NCPET), a tripartite council which makes policy
recommendations to the GOVC. As mentioned above the ECTEP would be able to use the technical staff of IET for
proposal evaluation and would use the Employment Centers as a channel for TSF proposals and evaluation of sponsored
activities. The Employment Centers located in Praia, Mindelo, S. Felipe and S. Antao are closely linked to the
municipalities, employers, training institutions and local organizations and would assist qualifying organizations and
individuals in formulating proposals for the TSF. The Employment Centers would also disseminate information about the
TSF to interested organizations ant the public,
22.    The Project would provide financing for local consultants, and per diem for ECTEP member. The ECTEP would
in principle meet every month but, after an initial six months period, the frequency of meetings would be adjusted to
needs.
PROMOTION OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES
DESCRIPTION, CRITERIA AND TRAINING ACTIVITIES TO BE FINANCED BY THE TSF
23.    Description of the Training Activities. The TSF funds will be used to procure training services from public and
private providers including enterprises and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), which offer training for
employment, meeting the criteria of the TSF. The TSF is intended to promote the growth of private training agencies,
particularly in professional fields where the need is high and the supply limited. Mechanism, but not financing, used in
the TSF, would also be used to promote the restructuring of public training agencies and the expansion of informal and
special (e.g. for women, youth, emigrants, etc.) training.



65
Annex 10
Pa,e 2 of 3
BASIC VOCATIONAL TRAINING
24.    Procedures for Initiating Proposals for Basic Vocational Training. Proposals may be initiated by the Employment
Centers which will locally market TSF opportunities, and would assist with the preparation of contract proposals.
Proposals may also be initiated by municipalities, training institutions, enterprises or other autonomous and registered
organizations. All proposals would be reviewed by Employment Centers staff to ensure consistency with TSF criteria and
regulations, and meet minimum standards. The Executive Committee would make all funding decisions on projects.
25.    The following criteria would guide the selection and financing of basic training programs which would be
proposed and delivered by private and public training institutions, enterprises and other registered organizations:
(a)     Proposal Content and Evaluation Criteria.
-       Content: the proposal must contain a training plan (syllabus) and evidence of demand for the skills to be
taught.
-      Placement: the proposal must include an agreement that would guarantee employment to 60% of the
trainees for a period of at least one year.
-      Duration: the training program would be on average 8 weeks long but will not exceed 12 months in
duration.
-      Training Strategy: must allow some flexibility in entry/exit of trainees.
-       Support Services: there must be evidence that the proposer has qualified management, training, staff,
facilities and equipment, financial control, and ability to evaluate performance, follow-up and placement
of trainees.
-       Unit Cost: must be clearly defined.
-       Cost recovery and sharing: ability of trainees to pay and the cost born by the proposers must be defined.
(b)    Reimbursable Costs.
-      Training and administrative personnel.
-      Consumable materials used in instruction.
-      Rent and utilities.
-       Stipends for trainees.
-      Small equipment and tool kits for trainees up to a limit of US$150.00 per kit.
-       Depreciation on capital equipment (limited to 20 % per year).



66
Annex 10
Pae 3 of 3
(c)    Administration
-      The Executive Committee will approve contracts.
-      The Employment Centers will screen trainees.
-      The Employment Centers will provide on-site supervision of training services and collect performance
data for monitoring and evaluation.
-      Training providers will be reimbursed on a monthly basis for the number of trainees on-site during that
month.
PROMOTION OF TRAINING (BASIC AND SECONDARY LEVEL)
26.    Objectives:
-  Short, responsive, directly for employment
-  obligation to insert in employment
-  Compete for resources
-  Regional distribution
-  Evaluation on the basis of national strategy
-  Special needs, women, emigrants
-  Information, local, municipalities, employment centers
27.    Cost estimates:
Number of requests:    12 programs/year
Size of the Program:    15 trainees
Average duration:    8 weeks, maximum 52 weeks
Estimated operating expenditures in US$ per programlmonth:
Fixed:
Equipement   US$ 1,000.00
Tools        US$  750.00
Materials    US$  750.00
US$ 2,500.00
Recurrent cost:
Facilities            US$  250.00/month
Adm. & Tech. staff    US$ 1,000.00/month
Stipends              US$  600.00/month
Transport             US$  300.00/month
US$ 2,150.00/month
Rec. cost/year program                12 x 2 month x 2,150.00   =     51,600.00
Fix. cost/year program                12 x 2,500              =       30,000.00
Total cost sub-component 5 years      5 x 81,600              =      408,000.00






6 7                              Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 5
Republic of Cape Verde
Basic Education and Training Project
Nutrition Component
Background and Surmmary
1.    Children's School Performance and Learning Capacity. Studies demonstrate that
health and nutrition problems in school children contribute to lower rates of school
enrollment, retention, attendance and to lesser performance. Short-term hunger results in
a lack of attentiveness and diminished problem-solving capacity.  Linear growth of
malnourished children is slowed; and low height for age is a determinant of poor school
performance.  Parasitic infection, which is particularly prevalent among school aged
children, contributes to malnutrition, and causes weakness and fatigue, physical conditions
that have a negative influence on the ability of students to concentrate in school and to obtain
optimal benefits from formal education.
2.    Since primary school enrollment in Cape Verde is almost 100% and the enrollment
rate for girls is nearly as high as that for boys, efforts in the education sector require less
emphasis on school access and more on the problems of repetition and dropout rates, the
need to improve the quality of teaching, and to enhance children's learning capacity. To
address the latter need, a nutrition component is included which will contribute to the
effectiveness of the primary education effort in Cape Verde, while also correcting health and
nutrition problems of public health significance.
3.    Nutrition and Health Setting. Two principal, related problems threaten the nutrition
and health of Cape Verdean children: the lack of sufficient agricultural production and
scarcity of water. There is little hope for food self-sufficiency in the foreseeable future, and
indeed donors have been providing nearly two-thirds of the food basket, including food for
all school children. The severe shortage of water adversely affects agriculture and poses
very serious sanitation and hygiene problems. Inadequate waste disposal threatens family
and child health.
4.    It is generally recognized that donor food has probably saved children from higher
rates of acute malnutrition but negative environmental factors and inadequate child care have
resulted in relatively high rates of stunted linear growth. Chronic malnutrition starts early.
and, according to the most recent national survey, increased from 15 to 22% in preschool
children between 1983 and 1990. The last national survey data on school age children
showed 13% stunted and 9% wasted. Past surveys have indicated deficiencies in iron,
Vitamin A and iodine. UNICEF has assumed responsibility for updating surveys of Vitamin
A and iron deficiencies, and its medical staff note that current iodization of salt should
provide iodine sufficiency. Information from medical sources and health facilities is that
there is a high prevalence of giardia and intestinal worms, principally roundworm and
whipworm. The health of most infants and toddlers is followed in health centers over the
period of vaccinations, but tend to be lost to health surveillance after that, from about two



68
Annex 11
Page 2 of 5
years of age. By the time children enter school, they are frequently in need of health
attention for various disabilities, skin and other infections.
5.    Cage Verde's School Feeding Program. The World Food Programme (WFP) assures
100% coverage of primary school children with a school feeding program (SFP) that is small
as country programs go in terms of beneficiaries. However, it is expensive and without
external aid, unlikely to be sustained. Dependency is already a central issue. WFP has
provided commodities for Cape Verdean school children since 1978. When the previously
unserved Islands of Maio and Brava and the fourth Council of Santiago --Santa Cruz-- were
added to the school feeding program in 1987, coverage of school children in the first six
grades became universal. WFP's ongoing program runs through academic year 1994-95,
providing meals for 73,000 primary students and incentive foods for 900 cooks. The meal
provides foods to 370 schools throughout the nine inhabited islands of the archipelago. The
principal management problems have been maintaining standards of hygiene and sanitation
in the absence of an adequate water supply. There is a lack of space and furniture for
eating, and toilet facilities continue to be insufficient. Though seven foods, an unusual
variety, are supplied by WFP, cooks who are given incentive pay bnly, often do not provide
highly acceptable meals due to water problems and lack of training. But the major program
concern given consideration here is its high cost and the unlikelihood that it can be
sustainable without donor food. Declining community participation in support of education
and the lack of plans and resources for promoting such participation characterize the past
several years.
6.    School Feeding Costs. At an annual cost of US$5 million per year, or US$68 per
beneficiary 1, the Cape Verde SFP is one of the highest per beneficiary costs among WFP
school feeding programs and among those in the world, despite its small size. Several costly
WFP foods--canned meat, milk and CSM--contribute to a meal that is protein-rich compared
with many SFPs. One hundred percent of daily protein requirements are met through the
school meal, while only 35-40% of daily calories needed are provided. FAO nutritionists
have recommended the current school meal ingredients based on the assumption that little
or no protein is provided at home. Nevertheless, it is believed that savings could be realized
l  This rigurm includes thc cost of food for teacher training Jupport which amounts to about 3 Mts a year out of the 4000
Mts provided.



69                                      Annex 11
page 3 of 5
by eliminating the more expensive foods such as pears and canned meat, while still
maintaining a rich protein meal.2 Because the foods are 'free" there has been little
incentive to come up with a nutritious but more parsimonious selection of food. Many SFPs
offer three or four commodities including a high-protein soy-based food such as Corn-Soya-
Blend (CSB) and a high protein legume such as lentils or chickpeas with the bulk of calories
from oil and cereals. In the Cape Verde SFP, food is the major cost which along with ocean
transport, constitutes 78% of total program budget. Intra-island transport is burdensome,
costing many times more than that in many SFPs, and constituting 13% of the budget.
However, it would not be feasible to monetize the donated foods in urban Santiago Island
and send the proceeds for local food Durchases because of food scarcity. The barebone
program costs are high and they omit large contributions in support of the SFP, notably
World Bank contributions to the building of school canteens and UNICEF provision of much
of the equipment and utensils.
7.     Global demands on Food aid threaten the maintenance of school feeding levels.
Given the current heavy demands on food donor agencies to respond to emergencies and the
higher priority assigned to non-school beneficiaries who are more physiologically vulnerable,
i.e., preschool children and pregnant/nursing women, there is a trend toward capping school
feeding programs, which means the normal annual increases in enrolled students would be
unmet needs. The continued favored status of food-deficit Cape Verde in the donor
2  To illustrate (but not proposc) how the selection of foods could be changed to a 40 percent reduction in cost, providing
more calories, and slightly less protein, the foUowing current daily foods provided for children in grades 1-4 is shown
with illustrative replacement foods:
Current Grams    Illustrative Replacement Grams
ricc*               50                    150
CSB                 50                     70
Milk                30                     20
Meat                 40
Vegoil              1S                     15
Sugar                10                    20
Dried fruit         20
Total grams         215                   275
Calories            758.5                1006.5
Proteins             32.5                  30.3
Cost"               $S18                    S.113
*rice and othcr cereal
**The cost per 100 grams of the foods now provided by WFP are shown below:
rice          S-028            meat          .210
veg.oil       .080             sugar         .030
CSB           .030            dried
fruit        .190
milk           .160



70
Annex 11
Pagze 4 of 5
community, the relative smallness of the beneficiary numbers, and the expectation of full
SFP approvals for the immediate future during the initiation of the educational reform, all
make reductions or phase-down of food aid for the SFP program unlikely for the short term.
However, WFP school feeding program plans and evaluations are written with the
assumption that food aid for school feeding in Cape Verde, as elsewhere in the world, is
expected to decrease and end in the medium or long term.
8.    Evaluation of Impact. The most recent evaluation, which was a qualitative one
carried out in 1990 jointly by WFP, UNESCO and FAO team, notes that the SFP, because
it alleviates the burden of education costs, has a positive impact on parents in keeping their
children in school, particularly in rural areas. That perception of the benefits of school
feeding is shared by Education administrators and most program observers. Data exist to
confirm the likelihood of this perception. In other countries, multi-variate analyses have
demonstrated that the presence of a school canteen has a positive relationship with enrollment
and performance on tests.3 No quantitative studies have been made in Cape Verde to
confirm the effect of the school canteen on educational indicators, though there are
opportunities for comparing served and unserved schools because of the progressive phase-in
cf different parts of the country. Retrospective studies could compare data on rates of
enrollment, dropouts, repetitions, and attendance in areas without canteens with areas that
had canteens.
9.    Nutrition Component.  Building on the government/Education Ministry/ICASE
commitment to the improved physical well-being of primary school children, the nutrition
component is designed to protect and improve the cost-effectiveness of the school canteen
program and to complement the canteen service with health interventions to reduce parasite
infestation and provide student health surveillance and referral. The goal is to improve
children's learning capacity, and thereby improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the
education sector. The component consists of the following sub-components:
(a)   institutional strengthening of ICASE with respect to school health surveillance
and management of feeding options;
(b)   improving the viability of the school canteen program, through:
-     identifying avenues for increasing community support; and sponsoring pilot
efforts;
selecting cost-effective options for school meal ingredients while maintaining
appropriate levels of nutrients and diversity of menus;
3  Jcan Pierre Jarousse and Alain Mingat of the Dijon Research Institute, IREDU, have demonstrated the relationship
between higher enrollment and school canteen presence in rural Morocco, and the relationship between achievement
and the presence of school canteens in rural Togo, Benin and Burkina Faso, in studies made in 1991 and 1993.



71
Annex 11
Page 5 of s
establishing scenarios for targeting based on different criteria including
geographical (areas of lowest attendance, high dropouts, low passing, poor
nutritional status), milieu (rural, urban), age (1-4 grades only omitting 5-6),
socioeconomic (geographical or within-school);
-     quantifying potential impact on school indicators;
(c)   operational research in a parasitic treatment intervention in schools on
Santiago Island and generalization throughout the country; and a school
preventive health program with parasitic treatment as the centerpiece;
(d)   pilot testing and generalization of a student medical screening and surveillance
system which would identify and treat common health problems and provide
teacher guidance for handling hearing, visual and other student disabilities.






Republic of Cae Verde
Basic Education und Trulning Prot d                                              Relevarice of Vocatinal nd
Expnditure Accounts by Components - Tots                                             Technical Training
(USS 000)                                    OaneFalIaz the  tegrdaed Primary             Support      Expand               Develop instutIonal Cacity
Education System                      Targeted  Apprentcehip    Strengthen
Upgrade  Establish a                and         and        MOES Planning  InsItutinal
and    Suslainable  Strengthen  Efickent   Professional       and        Capacity tor    Support
Adapt School   Deploy   Textbook   Technica   Training      Educatlon    lmplementation   Trainn and      Project
htnrasdLcture  teachers   System    Education  Programs    Programs         Capacity     Employment  Coordination   Total
1. wedstment Coats
A. ClvS Works
Nosw Contdo                                  4.315 C16                                                                                                       4,480
Reablon Sdcook)                              1,120         -           -                                                                         -           1.126
Rehablition                                                -           -           -                                                     46            -       46
Subtoa CN Wos                                  5,441         -                                 - -            -                           212             -    5,653
B. Equipmen
Pedagolcx Equ rx                               164         -          47        269                  -              -              -                   -      501
Ollb  Equnt nd Spps                                        -           -           -         -                              -            92           36       126
Veh                                                        -           -           -         - -            -                           104           1e       1t9
Subtota Eqdpment-                                164         -          47        269          -              -               -           196           52      746
C. Funiture
School Funitur                                 63                -           -               -              -               -             -             -      U8
Otke Furnur                                                 -                -          -            -                      -            20            3        23
Subto l Fumture                                  66          -           -           -         -              -                            20            3      861
0. Textbooks
T    edoks (EBI)                                 -                   637           -         -              -                             -             -      637
E. Training
Locm TssIing                                           32-0                                             1.174            117             20                  1 1701
Owxee  TTraing                                                                                                              s -  -  -  66  126          -      194
Subtdotal Traeing                                  -      390                  -          -               1.174             164           148             -    1.895
F. Trann Support Fund                              -         -           -           -       450                              -                          -      450
0. SpeilIt Serv
ANhdckas mod Eng qerg SOoea                   314         -           - 1                   -              -                                                  314
AC  wd Ac eoui                                             -           -           -         -              '               -             -          196       19l
Localp Spechs                                            71            -         10          -             _3             54            273          142      634
Fstrlgn Sp-WM                                    -       6_ - el-                                                        136             60                   279
Subtdol Speildst Sevkies                         314      132            -         10                        8 63           192           353          340    t,425
TOt Ihvent Costs                                 6.756      522          664        299        450          1.257            376            929          394    11,669
L RAcurrwnt Costs
A. Pr.OtOpM*    C.b                                - -       .           -          5          -                             1n          155          222      56s
B. Incremnl OptCas                                 -         -           -           -         -                                           40                    40
C. hnueuwal Rcuwe.t Costb                          -    3,309            -           -         -                                          104           67    3499
Total Recurret Costs                                 -    33-                         5          -              -            16             299          306     4107
Tol PROJECT COSTS                                 6.756    3.631         664         304       450           1,257            562          1.226          703   15.776
Ton- -                                                                               -                 -              -              -
ForeI  ExotFg                                  5.106      194          664        296        360            377            402            76           466    6,657              fo 
EXCMTFS.XLSabh                                                                    923194                                                                          04:44 PM






Republic of Cape Verde
Basic Education and Training Prolect                                                                 %      % Total
Conponents Project Cost Surrnmary              (Escudos '000)                  (US$ '@00)          Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign      Total     Local  Forelgn   Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Generalize the Integrated Primry Educa
1. Adapt School lnfrasticture          115,709   371,976     487,685    1,411    4,536    5,947      76       41
2. Upgrade an Deploy teachers         291,100     14,400     305.500    3,550     176    3,726         5      26
3. Edablsh s  Sustainable Texdbook System   -    51,120       51,120        -    623       623       100       4
Subtotal Generalize the Integrated Primry    406,809    437,496  844,305    4,961    5,335   10,296     52      71
B. Relvance of Vocational and Technkal T
1. Strenwghan Technicl Education          605    22,545       23.150       7     275       282       97        2
2. Support Targeted and Effcent Tmkhh P  7,380    29,520      36,900      90      360      450        80       3
3. Exp nd Apprenilceship and Professa  71281      30 549     101i830     869      373        ,242     30       9
Subtotal Revance of Vocational and Tech  79,266    82,614      161,880     967   1,007    1,974         51      14
C. Develop Insdltutional Capacity
1. Stregbhn MOES Planning and mpene    11,480    29,948       41,428     140      365      505       72        3
2. insuMlonal Capacity for Tran  and Em  31,975   57,485      89,460     390      701     1,091       64       8
3. SupportPred Coordnto                 16260    35,120       51380      198      428      627        68       4
Subtotal Develop InsItutIonal Capacity   59715    122,553      182268      728    1,495    2,2          67      15
Total BASELINE COSTS                     545,789    642,664    1,188,453    6,656   7,837    14,493     54      100
Physical Contingencies                  12,223    29,319      41,543     149      358      507        71       3
Prbe Contingencies                     25,779    37,870       63,649     314      462      776       59        5
Tot PROJECT COSTS                        583,792    709,853    1,293,645    7,119   8,657    15,776     55      109                                                      w
SUMCOM5.XLSsbh                                                             9/23194                                                                  04:45 PM






Republic of Cape Verde
Basic Education and Training Project
Components by Fiancbirs                                                                                Local
(US$000)                                The Govemment          IDA               Total         For.   (Exd.  Duties &
Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %        Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
A. Genralize the Integrated Primary Educa
1. Adapt School lnfrastructure           708     10.5    6,050     89.5    6,758     42.8   5,106    1,651
2. Upgradeand Deployteachems           3,309     86.4      522     13.6    3,831     24.3     194    3,636
3. Establish a Susainable Textbook System  -        -      684    100.0      684      4.3     684        -
Subtotal Generalize thetntgrated Prkmry    4,017   35.6    7,256     64.4   11,272     71.5   5,984    5,288
B. Relevance of Vocational and Technical T
1. Strengthen Technical Education         0        -       304    100.0      304      1.9    296         8
2. Suppot Targeted and Effcient Training P  -       -      450    100.0      450      2.9     360       90
3. Expad Apprenticeship and Professnl      0        -    1,257    100.0     16257     8.0    377       880
SubtotalRelevanceofVocational andTech        0        -    2,011    100.0    2,011     12.7   1,033      978
C. Develop Inituonal Capacity
1. Stengmn MOES Planning and Impleme       0        -      562    100.0      562      3.6     402      160
2. Instittonal Capacity for Training and Em  223  18.2    1,005    81.8    1,228      7.8     769      459
3. Support Project CodInation             87     12.3      616     87.7      703      4.5     468      235
Subtotal Develop Institutonal Capacity     310     12.4    2183      87.6    2,492     15.8   1,639      853
Totl D     lsbusemet                      4,326    27.4   11,450      72.6   15,776    100.0   8,657    7,119         -
DIsuswnt Accounts by Financi                                                                         Local
(USS 000)                               The Govennt            IDA               Totl          For.   (ExcL   Dute &
Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %        Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
CMl Works                                818     14.5     4834     85.5     5653    35.8    4175    1478
Equimnt, Materials, Vehics and Supplies    -        -     1504     100      1504      9.5    1409       95
Textboolk                                  -        -      742      100      742      4.7    742         0         -
Training                                   -        -     1895      100     1895       12     699    1197
Supporl Fund                               -        -      450     100       450      2.9    360        90
Specalist Services                         -        -     1425     100      1425        9     615      610
lnrentc Operting Cods                     9      22        31      78        40      0.3       8       32         -p >
Project OpaingCosts                        -        -      568     100       568      3.6    450       118         -
Inlcrementa Recunrent Costs             3499     100         -        -     3499     22.2        -    3499         -X
Total                                     4326     27.4    11450     72.6    15776      100    8657    7119          -
o
COMFIN.XLS51sbh                                                              1211)94






Rpubic of Cape Verde
Basic Education and Training Poec
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals lnclu
(US$ 00)                                             Totals Including Contingencles
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    Total
L Investent Costs
A. CMI Works
New Constucion                         1,537    1,161     878     904        -    4,480
RedoIation (Sdcools)                     134     343      354     146      150     1,126
RehablUtaon                              35       11        -        -               4
Subtotal Cli Works                       1.705    1,516    1,232    1,050    150    5,653
B. Equpmnt
Pedagogical Eqiipnwt                       -     247      254        -       -      501
Ota Equlpunt andSupples                    -     128        -        -       -       128
Vehils                                     -     119        -        -       -       119
Subtotal Equpment                            -     495      254        -       -      748
C. FurnIbr
School Furnhure                            -     201      207     212      218      838
Ollce Funlt                                -      23        -        -       -       23
SuMol Furnluwe                               -     224      207     212      218      861
D. Taxbooks
Tuiboolk (EBI)                             -        -     304        -     333      637
E. Trabtn
Local Trekig                            218      347      384     397      355     1,701
Oversea.sTuulg                             -      67       69      57        -       194
Subtot Trabtlng                           218      415      453     454      355     1,895
F.TrinhigSiq porFund                       90       90       90      g0       90      450
0. Spelist SrIc
Ahlsctiid arnd Enrnea SenvlSos            68      70       72      75       29      314
AudiEudAoowaZi                           44      45       35      36       37       198
LocalSpeclkts                            129     121      125     129      131      634
ForUSpecaUst                              72     100       86      11       11      279
Subtolal Specal  ServIces                  312     336      318     250      208     1,425
Total hwevsbnt Cods                        2,326    3,075    2,857    2,057    1,354    11,669
L Recurrnt Cost
A.PmjtOperaOlw Coosd                       100     119      119     122      109      568
B. IncremeaOpraUtngCosts                    7        8        8       8        9       40
C. Inckrremid Recurrent Costs             803      860      608     612      616     3,499
Total Recurrent Cods                         911     987      735     742      733     4,107
Total PROJECT COSTS                         3,237    4,062    3,592    2,799    2,087    15,776                                                                x
04:43 PM
EAYRTS.XLss                                                                 9/2314






Republic od Cape Verde
Basic Educaton nd Trainn Pnud
Table 1.1 Adapt School lrfasbucture
Dealed Costs
(U1S$ WM0                                                                              Om  blle                                                             ase cost                                 Tatble Biciudl  Contingleclee
UnM          1996       1996        1997       19        1999       Toal    Unt Coat  15          W196    1997    1996    1990    Toalt   1996    196    1997    196    19n    Totl
A. ClVN Wollia
NOwClaeagAsu                           ClmIoom             10          30          30        30                   100    12.S22       120     379      379     379             1,262     136      427     439     452             1,456
RepaCe       CR                        Cdne#eoom           10          30          30        30                   100    12622        126     379      379     379        -   1,282      136      427     430     452             1.450
CR   _dly pro 1m I                       meoamm            41            -                     -         -         41     1z=2        51         -       -        -       -     515      56         -       -s
CR  wly progrm  2                      COmeoomn             50         10                     i-         -         60      12622      631     126        -        -       -    757       692      142       -                       S34
R_anldealegtEDC                         School               -          5           5          -         -          10    36565               13       163                      36          -    26       212        -              416
Reh _ CleemmniJb                       clm_  sn o0                     50          50        S0         S0        250      Z430       122     122      122     122      122     610      134      137     141     146      150      706
6._  Chll Wa                                                                                                                          1.523   1,1M    1,062      679      122   4.775    1.671    1.33    1,232   1.00      150  54441
IL E*dw_
Pedgoglcal Kiln                                                       125         125          -                  250       Mal                76       76                      152         -     *1       63                       164
C. PirAthie
SdFwdFt                               Wso                                          so -  S0  50  SD     So        20D      3.SJ9        ,     13       11S     163      183     732              261      207     212      216
1. Loal pedet
Cebd        _         os mmuM             _               1           1           1          I       (LS         4.5        S0       50      S0       S0      S0       25     225       52       53      55      57       29      246
FledlSupervision Is                     erF               1           1           1         1          -4    15.654                  16      1 6      la      Is        -      as       is       1 7     1 7     16                so9
6l*wLa    _pe                                                                                                                         6e       as       es     4S        25     26         a       70      72       75      20      314
T_el                                                                                                                                     1,560    1,513    1,367    1,126    330   404f   1          15.1    1,504   1.367      397   6.756
ba hrdhg a , o             lm s    _       __
6 ilurned by Wo 00ak111010
ic b_ab,hatr   do    d chi, _A c_bmd
U  APO -  0 W. DOA 1wf I       awmmomW  eqipueb
o1 N
lbi
00 I
Ob m
OT_1_1S1                                         1w1X4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






R"Nd c f Go
Msk Edwcaadmo ud *hW   PUsdt
*aW  1.1 U-  -    .d Dspgl Teach.
Ded Ca
(m VW)                                                          Qtu"WA                                                                                              Sm. 1ca                                  Toed. InelUdln  CaMnAloameim
URN          i.e         i.e         $06I       ie          i*Se       Tead      URN cow    014    IVIO    in?    im.    i.e            ToAml   lo"      ie       lee?    ie       l.e      Teed
L bws_ Ca_h
opdm    sm_
I. Finale. Speciasia
IJSp   T _M"(PM ILb40                         _ l  M                                    4          2           2          Is       .043      tO        S       n2       6        6      a        Id      17       ig        7        7      a1
L Led opekmAla
_Lr _ _ubw bt                                                  3 20        2J0         20          20         2          nSo       0.61       12      12       12      12       12      ot       13       n4      14       Is       is      71
_ epaeu  Suds.                                                                                                                                    27      27       24       Is      Is      I t      30       30       2*      22       2D      132
L T LlT
1.Lead l"ir4
_lee9qpo- _PI                                                   I _                     -           -           *          2                 37e 37   37        --                       73      2        40        -       -        -      7
wealwoobdi  _babd.                          Pe.          .             -                I           I MI                   3     n.            -               73 n    73               2270      -3 -                              6      2*7
SuppedP       A.T .                          I_                 1           I           I           I                      4     t2166        12      12       12      12        -      40       1 a       3      14       14        -      54
Ushadd Lead Tnh                                                                                                                                 4       69       a0      U        73      341 ss            63      e7      tno       *      ma
Tom bedau,d Cash                                                                                                                                    is       76     1tO      104      91 4t7           at       04      124      122      oil  62
L fts.md Coash
A. kbuu.add ft....d Cawsh
TY     _"p. _Ah.a h.bd.gi                    p_             -.                2           2           2           2          a      24.3         -      40       4       4        40      ns                6D      G6       66       U2     m3
Nhwbdwmusued.                                                   2100                    to    n                 143        s4       366        766     7        S12     662      612    3         76 6     76*     61.      62       612   3n
TOW  _a m  cs 7ub_6* ?a                                                                                                                                     6l l                     66 t      T       76       24SJ    670     62        7      3
Toed                                                                        4                                                                               03       971      m       ou *s372         64       s07     634      664      e    3.631
Is  g abash. to CDP  Ven. Om specs"  polit by Gd.shi  ft db
es   -              _h . d  W Smf mndas
lit PbwMd IV On Ommosommat ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~t>
ID 
*-.t
X%
0






78                                      Annex 12
Page 7 of 14
I1 b-1
'1'
''I
S..
_ ii
Ii~~~~,
[I~   ~~~ I*  eI 
Ii~~~  'I  '
t!,,X  Ij:I    |   IsiI






Rpubkb of Cqm VanS
Bask Edadon mnd T,unn Pwold
Tabl. 21. T.cA.lc  Saondwy Edusinca
D*Wl*d Cosd
(us V)                                                                              Quanntls                            Uuni                         Base Cot                                     Total Including Conetngencls
Unit       19n       19K9      on?      igi    1t"       Todl      Cost    195        I"       17        I"       1m      Totl    19"        1t"      17       1        19t      Tol
1. Inv.bet Costs
A. Equipment
Spadmizd qu a t                               bl                                                                                          -       73        -         -      73         -        -       8                  ,       80
Cmnpubl                                                                                                                          -      9_              -             -      98                104  -_-   -                        104
SaiWW F4WPOA-                                                                                                                              98       73                         M          -      104       0         -               164
BR TashosA
Ta.gxoko and Teah    Okk4                     Mt                                                                                        37        at        -         - 9O                      39   8r               * *
C.   .kibswk
1. I    4oci   b SaMca
8a TadL EdRt m Plan                 m         m             3                                               3  3049           9         -        -                          9    10    - _                       --1            0
TOWb N          Cd Cash                                                                                                              9      134      134         -        -      2         10      143      146         -              2K
v. Itacumlt Coats
A. Poojd Opcarda  Costa lb
NtonA   dhlog   k                             tap             t         1                  .                  2    2Z439        2         2        -          -               5         3        3        -        -    _            5
T.l Rllast4 Cvts                                                                                                                     2        2                  -        -        5        3        3                                   5
TOW                                                                                                                                 12      137       134                        262        13      145      14         -        -      304
is  arig iffaa. meanWna  Soa han d.         es, sox
lb 50 psn x 4D00CVE '  s-ng bunapmeon coats
b. b dali n    _mam  S b glsmasi Seowodwy Tadvd    E aOn ,shem  plan
_j
D3
rO  M
en
co






|  |                ~~~~~~80                       ASnnex 12
1 8-
33
1 8'8
-33
.1
i ii



q



Raps*k of Cap. V.68
Sa8. Eduwas and TINktPiW ue
TaM. 2.3. Appan*nhf6 aVd Ped9ana E&dufn
Detedld Cmub
IUSSM '00)QanhI'U.                                                                                                                                                             n cost                                    Totai. kncuding Cordingencies
U.n           MeO         Ill         IN?7          SW         tWO         TOd        caw      in$       SW       1        INS      IWO     Tat  i IW          tWa      till      is"      to"    laid
L bwadaed CashA
A. Ld spt Tr dke
EmudelddpmgenowWa3                                                                             3           3                        S     0.61        -        2        2        2         -        S                 2        2        2                 5
D.pe..M9ehhmS WO-                                                    12          12           12          12           12          so      1.22      la       is       is       IS        is       73       is       l 15      15 0     I        Is      17
Smabiold LOWd  U.dess                                                                                                                                  Is        S        IS       Is       Is       is       IS       17       I?        Is      Is       83
T3 T.dEk,
Appummw*o la                                            Wow  C      no           ISO         ISO          18           Wo    5.744      134      134       134      134      134      670      134      134       134     134      134      gm0
P.bt    wimWEdue~                               ppormo                            a            a           a            S          2     24.29        -      122      122       122      122      4*8        -      I24      124      124      124      4W4
E_,p_mmMdI              _wUsm                                         -           2            2           2                        5    0.*15         -       2         2        2        -        6        -        2        2        2         -
_Load               -                                                1                                                                               134 225           25O 5i                                         2       2S 0     261      258 1_114
.G"                                                                     P                                                                             ff     141  274  274     274   -         1222   1242  4               V27      27       24    1.267
to k*uW                                                                                                                                                             2Uh.~    2U         U be.Ia em  amo  2d 2Si2   tM7
Go_
_.-
0-






Regx*lc d Ca" Verde
BSas Edibn ewd T.ahk&  Piesd
Tl 3 1. Slthan MOES
Detailed Costs
tkm DO                                                                  Quanides                                                             Base Cod                                  Totels Includhi Con11nganles
Unit       1995      1s"6  1n     7      19        19n9      Total   Unit Cosd    19       199         7    19        1"      Ttdal    1        1996    1997    1999       19m     Total
L  hnvestnint Cost
A. SpecaisaNu Sarivce
1. Lad specilist
6di wigaMI*                     a m             2                        -              -          2      1.ff3        3                                           3-  -  -    3     -                                  3 3
6d1nadaIan wd _has  mu    per Yw                1         1         I         I         1          5        1.71 1              9        9       9        g       44       10       10       10       11      Il       SI
_u alal Local Spedmaish                                                                                                 12        9        9        9       9       47       13       10       10       11       11      54
2. Foodig SpachalMa
Uppoi  SdwdUp MmN                               2         -                   -         -          2     12.195       24                                          24       26                          .               26
awy  "OE8tauim                  Ini             -         2          -        -         -          2     12.195        -       24        -                        24                2-                                 21
WoFaedk P gu                    man              -        2         1         -         -          3     12.195        -       24       12        -        -      37        -       27       14                 -      40
Achk%    At Tomb b               wm             I         I         I         I         I          5      3.049        3        3        3        3       3       i5        3        3        3        4        4      17
PegMd w1        Osbpin          mm              -          -        2         -         -          2     12A195                 -       24                 -      24        -                27    _                   27
Sutasld Foe   SPckalsb                                                                                                  27       52       40        3       3      125       29       57       45        4        4     138
_ubli   SpecI*ss Uwtks                                                                                                    39       61       48       12       12     172       42       67       55       14       15     192
IL Trak"
1. Local Tlnig
MOE Olrdolbs punndlla           aWIN            4         4         4         4         4         20      0 976        4        4        4       4        4       20        4        4        4        5       5       22
Rago   Ddqegotkm  Pwam       aanmkw             I         1         I         I         1          5      2.439        2        2        2        2       2       12        3        3        3        3        3      14
Schtoci  1ckm /a            Wwlhope             3         3         -         3         -          9      E.195       25       25        -      25         -      74       26       27        .       29               82
_tTb      nh Lcal Trak"                                                                                                 31       31        6       31        6     105       33       34        7       36        a      117
2 Ovanmas TmaiI4
MOCE0redtotaPslmuN  I            wn             -         4         4         2         -         10      6.098        -       24       24       12        -      61        -       26       27       14               68
S*bltai TrainIn                                                                                                           31       55       31       43       6      166       33       60       34       50        8     184
Totad d_estnaa Code                                                                                                         70      116       79       55       is     338       75      126       89       64       22     378 6
IL R.cunw  Costa
A. PToad OpefaUng Costa
E&-bm Cor-n Cowrnd    pwrye                       I         I         I         I         I          5      24.39       24       24       24       24      24      122       26       27       28       28       29     139
lndmetot_9hedthpiktop    per ye-                            1         1                              3         15        -       Is       15       15        -      45         -      16       16       16         -     47
Toa Racasi   Coset                                                                                                         24       39       39       39      24      167       26       43       43       44       29      186
Toeal                                                                                                                       94      155      119       94       43      505      101      169      132      108      52      562
a ob e nmwe d by CASE and hida*  Ih  pnia    d         nod milon for d rtmi*i pII Worpilbn
tb tAV tblon hI Cap Verds qt _daItls praided by Gelab n Fo lb n
ba baln  hi  p,w  bus4i and  hlid           _     t*llrio
Id eruslm aan     rp p a  di lat 15urinddolde
I $10x7 da     x 1s20 Patkpint
V $1500 bw taai + 5120at dap Ox per dn* b*In bto
OQ :j
ID {D
X






Repbf of Cap Vad.
abe E Olbon _d Takdni   P,oed
Table 3.2 T7mkil  and Employmai sarvce
Detailed C_ab
CLMW4                                            Ouan__"_Da" Cm                                                                                                                                         Toasl khcluding Coft"*m*s
Unit      tI        tIN         tll       low      19T81      1        UnWCod   I95    It"           1817    16    it"        Total    19       itg      I"?    19N        196     Total
L khv_sIMa  Ceaw
k ClWv WaqS
1. NIa. Ce_abucin
Now Effpnmd CAK                                 a .M                     100                                      100  0    .4tU        .       49        .       - -             49 55                       -        - S5
NwE ,o1nadCmSwu                                 aqm             *        200              -        .              2C0      0.48U                96        -                        g .        ,   110         *        -        *,   Io
Subotal NM ca&        a.                                                                                                                         148                -        -     146               186             -       -          1
R      Emp     waC1  la                                         *          1                   -         .          1         10         -      10                                 10               11                .        .      11
Ram        oa ha MLYS  Ad                       *ur                                                                                    32                 -                .       32      35                     . . .                35
8i10 PA*WbiUbaM                                                                                                                          32       10                -                42      35       11        -                        46
_ C*b    cm Wia                                                                                                                            32      15t                     -          1"      35      17         .                 -    212
B. Ehalma
a. am..o*m amd aqplm
CAumSare bw D_p_wo4d Labr A s                                                 so  S-                                13   '.040           -      24                                 24               26        -        .        .      20
Na back CmnpAm  w D.pm         ida atoq          we8            *          2                   .                    2      2.439                 S                                  5        .       5        .        .                5
ComptMhIN Ermp m    cadm                         ad             .          4          -        .                    4      8.040                32                                 32        .      34        -        -               34
ONsEipwd bDap wautdLabor                                        *           1                  -         .           tI     9.75         *      10        -          -             10          .    10                 .               10
Clm .hI     _btEwEpI pr-ImC- .g                  ad                        4                             -          4      3.1Y2                la                                 I _   -  1 s     17    _                     .      7
8._ Of_asa dpmas mad va" m                                                                                                                 .       7        .                        87        .      32        .        -        *      *2
L Furhuim A,
Fw mbu    Dqhsw.dLaborA                          ad             -          1          -        - I                  1    13415           -      13                                 13        -      15        -        *        *      15
Fwnwa O U Emp Emouwp d C _                       ad             -          2          . 2                           2      Z439                                                     5        .       5        *        -
8_   PwAsi                                                                                                                                        18        .        -               1S Is            20                 . 
8. VaNcka 4
VaPdabbIm D    _pabnadLaha                      ad                         1                                         1     19.512        -      20        .                        20               21        .        *               21 
VbfdddawEmpiwanmiCaris AA                       a               -          4          -         * -                 4     19.512        *       7                                  78               83        - ___*_  U3
sma*t V                                                                                                                                                              - -             f         *6    104        *        -        -    104
sI w                                                                               -                                                                                   -       -      211        .     21                  -              218
C. Spcalst Sauk.
t. Llo 0_w
Labor       padtad                                              I           I Y O M                                 6    23.415        23       23       23      23       23      117      25       2C       27       28       29     156
TfS_P-W                                       PW                1           1        1         1         1           5    23.415       23       23       23      23       23      117      25       26 S      7  2n            29     156
8.*li WL&8p_ad                                                                                                                           47       47       47      47       47      234      51       53       56       So      5       273
2. FPaip Ipadal_.
Labor hd   WEspp m           SpachS             Km              1          1         1                   *          3     12.105       12       12       12            -           37      13       13       14        -               40
T      _po                                      nDI             1           1        1              .   .           3      12.196      12       12       12        -       *       37      13       13       14        *        *      40
Saiih fae_  S        _PaC                                                                                                                24       24       24        -               73      26       27       27                        0o
8.t 8a8a 1.a                                                                                                                               71       71       71      47       47      307      77       79       82       58      59o     3
1. Lacd Tt_li
FL La_ Eh    MM                                 Pan                 *                6         -     *              6      2.227         -  *            1S  -                               -       -       20        -       *       30
2. 0       Trahg 4
For OL   M                                      W                   5 5      *   *                                 24      4.878         .      3        30      39        -        1       1 7 *   42       43       44              125
_?r   1.                                                                                                                                     -      39       57      30               135        *      42       82       44              148
T _a       4 bvaoad Co mb                                                                                                                            409      126      *        47      932      112     514      144      100       Go     929
IL RlMwit Com
A. PTUSad  Opang Coda
ri ah                 G coipwtcooAdh            put              1                                         1  1  1   5      24.30      24       24       24      24       24      122       26      27       26       28      20      139
Pujh ud Dbaamklend bhumulon pinP                                  1 YOM                          1         1          5       2.127       3        3        3       3        3       Is        3       3        3        3       4       I7
itbli  P,4ae OPalf cog"                                                                                                                    27       27       27      27       27      137       20      30       31       32      33      155
11 hkwasnb Oparing Coab
1. IACon01bUUofl






Fac   S f EIPO                                Per                          1     0 a      06a       0.5       3.95      3.902       4        4       3        3       2      15        4       4        4        3       2       16
OUMmmpp8..IINDL                               PYr             1           1       0.o     0.65       0.5       3.5       2Z927       3        3       2        2       1      12        3       3        3        2       2       13
4ub ll DA Coebumi                                                                                                                      7        7       5        4       3       27       7        a       a        5       4       31
2 0.ot C.eIbeio
Fcm to ETPO                                   p nY-                               0.2     0.35       0 5       1.05      3.902                        1        1       2       4                         1        2       2        5
ON"lSuppitro Dl.                              pr Y                        -       0.2     0.35       0.5       1.05      2.927       -                i        I       1       3        -        -       I        1       2        4
S4MM Gewt CenbIbi                                                                                                                               *       1        2       3        7                        2        3       4        a
t4M6IU I       t Op   t6l Comb                                                                                                           7        7       7        7       7       54       7       S        a        a       9       40
C. b         ReaMed C_b 
T.dIAl SItNofEOMmCU mb to_                                         1        1         1        I        1           5      15.61      16       10      16       16      Is       78      11       16      is       19       20      92
A    h*Ped SW d ElPO                           PW YW            I           1        1         I        1           5      1.951       2       2        2        2       2       10       2        2       2        2       2       12
5ub eI         _tl R.Csnwi Ct6 la                                                                                                                I       16      1       18       8a      19       20      21       22       22     104
TOM_RAIwUCNdS                                                                                                                             52       52      52       52      52      259      58      5se   0 0          2       64     290
TOW                                                                                                                                       155     521      180      Ut       se  1,091       1ti     672      204      162     122   1,226
bdm
bm d hIS  Oiw.n    tl he1 h   d Fgeo me Se. h
W aMs" bI eemdd  En*wp"wi ud k b b*ghmn adin.
VA hchmide hod d.e. wmmb. pbKNW uob m
V PNinpSmw. WuiS.Sm bl
'A Deem.c disk.. oh q
I S F1*
I uNm d ben   ebeidi be ei,   sawaft  cd d babd is  uhwemd h~by bmrn
Vn T 1.      -wdo    d ~seA by U. peuasAmi OA ewmaA bui. humS. hfri amw    med kAm low
"0  3
C






R_eAf d cq Vwd
ck Ellen wd T.abd. Pi4
Tf. 33 Pn4sd C4CdnuIon
scdAw Ceab
(LAO  000                                                                     o.am .sm                                                              Bae" coo                                     Tows IecI.dlmg Conlin.esclas
Uni        1t        1t1"      18?        13W       1m        T;oad    UB Cod    138    1"6          1m7       IN   1m           Tol    1M         1"       1"T       139      1m      To
L lavetmee Ce4
A. SVpCdIU Sendees
1. Lad aWd
Accmuidi                            per  tI                     I         I          I t                         24 36       24       24       24       24       24       122      28       27        26       29        30     142
L Adt  _d Aeiuuid Segkes
AcaIm hngFimlI                        nwn             2         2         1          1         1         7       9.764       20       20       10       10        10      60       20        20       10        11         1     72
Edwnl Adl                             mm              I         I         I          I         I         65     I 1707       12       12       12       12       12       59       12        12       13       13       13       63
TIIMd ofdT8Fh                         mmn             I         1         1          1         I         6      11.707       12       12       12       12       12       59       12        12       13       I3       13       63
Subb  AdMfand Aesmum Seidke                                                                                                    43       43       33       33       33      185        44       45       35       36        37     1
3uI_       l Speck" Sevke                                                                                                        6        e 67     56       56       58      307        70       72       64       66       6U      340
IL Eqlpuseto
1. OflS equlpom      d supplies
Canpm bf r PUJk t                     so                        3                                           -  -  3  .049     -       24                                   24                26         .                 -       26
OU6*fq   PaMd                         sI.                       1          -         -         -                 0.756        -       10        -10 -10                                                           --.0
_ub t CUam    equIpem and sawpl                                                                                                 -       34         -                 -       34        -       36         -                        3-
L Fw_w is
FuAw sI tPCU                                                    1          -         -                   1       21439                 2        .        .                 2         -        3         *                 *       3
3. VekkdaaN
Vdi s                                 wth                       1          -                   -         I      14,634                Is             -        -            15                16s  i s                             6
sb6         -                                                                                                                             S          -        -        -       1 S    _  _       54                  -        -       54
TOW           _ _b,.aoC.W                                                                                                          67      III      5         66      56       356       70      127        64       88        s      364
N. Rasswnet C..f                                                                                                                                                                                                                            c
A- PvaK    Opesudag Cos                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n
Fp    CmwdonUMwoM                     PUYa              I          I         I         I         t         6       24.39       24       24       24       24        24      122       26       27       28        28       28      139
Opng     -  C oli                     parp_             1         I          I         I         I         65      .756        10       t0       10       10        10       49       10      Il        11        11       12      55
Camwbu_   J doI Memipp                ps VW             I         I          I         1         1         6       4.676        5        5        5        5         5       24        5        5        6         6*            26
s._ ,a p s opmada gcee                                                                                                           30       30       39       30        39      106       42       43       44        40       47     m
L _amm         Rtaeanwt C
C         _ BP    aid _ us            p  vow            I         I               I         I    1         5      14.634       15       15       15       15        1e       n 7. Is           17        17       16       19      67
Told Reinum Co                                                                                                                     54       54       54       54        64      266       56       0o       62        64       N       3
tOM                                                                                                                                121      172      II       Ill      III        27 ay  13       IN        125      128      133      703
sa la ampptPCUiRa mA cuba amjad  bud
lbeoudiadas    1 dItPAmabr. p& ~and ak
Is bwkm pla. Winiw.  PN bIas
Ic DaabI dwsK  Eq   mbb
W6.sdm
tci             .mE.Am   w ldveio opIdma  nw hbm   bI'pm   aqias. oft
O0Q
(00
x
I-
WI_dH._,6_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
u P_. tWs-, ^ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






86
Anna 13
Pare 1 of S
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR THE PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT
OF THE BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.1    Objectives.  To help the Government accomplish its objectives, the project, through the Project
Coordinating Unit, will provide assistance to the Ministry of Education and Sports and to the Ministry of Labor,
Youth and Social Affairs with the management of funds and the coordination and monitoring of the project, the
various components of which are to be implemented by their own departments or by executing agencies, such as
the Ministry of Infrastructure, to which it will delegate responsibility for execution of the work.
1.2    Responsibilities. Having responsibility for executing the project and for evaluating the qualitative and
quantitative results, the PCU will supervise and coordinate the project activities and the project staff, including all
liaison with the various departments of the Ministries of Education and Labor, the other Ministries and
Government departments involved in the project, and the project donors. The PCU's day-to-day activities will
include special responsibility for the following:
(a)    coordinating all aspects of project implementation among the various Government departments involved;
(b)    ensuring that the coordinators of each component perform their responsibilities effectively;
(c)    organizing the delegation of hiring of contractors to execute the civil engineering works and
monitoring the physical and financial implementation of the works contracts on behalf of the
Ministry;
(d)    organizing the hiring of executing agents to carry out certain components of the project and monitoring
their implementation;
(e)    organizing the procurement of furniture and equipment, particularly by preparing or helping to prepare
the bidding invitation documents, screening the bids, and submitting recommendations for awarding
contracts, and by ensuring that contracts are awarded in accordance with the guidelines issued by IDA or
other donors;
(f)    ensuring that the supplies purchased under the project are delivered to their destinations and recorded in
the central register of assets;
(g)    organizing the hiring of specialists and administering technical assistance agreements and study
fellowship programs;
(h)    monitoring and checking on completion dates and costs of acquisitions;
(i)    ensuring a satisfactory and timely flow of funds to the various project components.
(j)    keep the project's accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting methods;
(k)    drawing up requests for disbursements of funds from the IDA credit;
(1)    ensuring the timely payment, by the Government, of counterpart funds for the project;
(m)    doing the bookkeeping, including taking care of the financial records relating to the project;
(n)    preparing regular progress reports and other reports to be submitted to heads of Ministry units and to
donors;
(o)    organizing the preparation of future projects.
1.3    Resources: The PCU is attached to the Ministry of Economic Coordination; it is headed by a full-time
Project Coordinator, assisted by staff comprising: a Coordinator for the Basic Education component and a
Coordinator for the Training component, an accountant and appropriate support staff consisting of three
secretaries, an aide and a driver.



87
Annex 13
Page 2 of'5
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR THE PROJECT COORDINATOR
OF THE BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJ.ECT
DescriRtion of duties
1.1    The Project Coordinator of the PCU shall be responsible for the efficient management and coordination
of the project. To this end, he will ensure that the project resources are used as efficiently as possible so as to
accomplish the set objectives in terms of outcomes, in accordance with the agreements signed with the donors.
1.2    More specifically, the Project Coordinator shall be responsible for the following:
(a)    arranging for the adequate distribution of documentation relating to the project (evaluation reports,
progress reports, credit agreements, working documents, donor directives);
(b)    preparing all the documentation needed for the annual midterm reviews and action plans in conjunction
with the donors;
(c)    assisting those in charge of the components with the preparation of their work plans and their annual
budgets;
(d)    Coordinating all aspects of project implementation and providing appropriate motivation as needed;
(e)    ensuring that those in charge of the various components perform their duties efficiently;
(f)    supervising the components and the management, procurement and accounting units of the PCU to ensure
that the resources earmarked for the project (goods, works and services) are delivered in accordance with
the programs drawn up, in terms of the financial and qualitative aspects and in keeping with acceptable
procedures;
(g)    making sure that the local counterpart or cofinancing funds are made available;
(h)    approving the movement of funds;
(i)    ensuring that all the project accounts are kept in accordance with recording procedures that are acceptable
to the donors;
(j)    signing all the documents necessary for requesting withdrawal of funds from the credit accounts, the
working fund and the special accounts;
(k)    making all the arrangements needed to ensure that the verification of accounts is effected in accordance
with the stipulations contained in the credit agreements;
(1)    seeing that all the required project documentation is available and sent to the donors in accordance with
their directives.
Oualifications required
1.3    Candidates shall have at least the following qualifications:
-      university-level training in economics or education planning;
-      at least five years' experience in a post with equivalent responsibility in a management or public or
private administration function;
-      experience during the last five years in the field of programming and financial and human resource
management;
-      a good knowledge of the education sector;
-      references from the last five years confirming an aptitude for work organization, coordinating various
teams and professional integrity.
Conditions of emtnlovment
1.4    The conditions of employment will be contained in a two-year renewable contract to be negotiated with
the Government. The Project Coordinator may be a civil servant, but the contract, in this case, may not be
financed out of the proceeds of the IDA credit.
Assignment location:    Praia
Term of contract:      Two years, renewable (with a maximum term of five years).



88
Annex 13
Page 3of
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR THE ACCOUNTANT
OF THE BASIC EDUCATION AND TRADNNG PROJECT
Description of duties:
1.1    Under the authority of the Project Coordinator of the Project, and with the collaboration of the
component coordinators, the PCU accountant shall be responsible for keeping the day-to-day accounts of the
project and for preparing for the audits of the accounts relating to project implementation. During project
implementation, the accountant shall benefit from the support and advice of an accounting firm.
1.2    More specifically, the Accountant's duties shall include the following:
(a)    ensuring that the accounts are appropriately funded for the prompt settlement of expenditures incurred
under the project;
(b)    regularly keeping the financial documents up to date (journals and ledgers) and detailed accounts for each
category of costs, component and sub-component;
(c)    drawing up and tracking payment requests;
(d)    preparing requests for withdrawals of funds and all documentation needed for disbursements, in keeping
with IDA guidelines;
(e)    drawing up monthly bank reconciliation statements for the project account and issuing the financial
position of each component;
(f)    supervising the activities of the accounting staff person assigned to the project;
(g)    keeping computerized accounts and issuing reports that properly present the accounts, statements and
management charts for the project.
Oualifications required
1.3    Candidates must have at least the following qualifications:
-      A university-level education;
-      At least five years' experience in an accounting department handling an equivalent annual work
flow;
-      Familiarity and/or experience with the disbursement rules and procedures for projects financed
by the World Bank or similar projects, comprising several components and sub-components, is
desirable but not essential;
-      A good knowledge of the use of micro-computers, in general, and of accounting software, in
particular;
-      A reference from the last five years confirming an aptitude for work organization and possession
of professional integrity.
Terms of employment:
1.4    The terms of employment will be contained in a renewable two-year contract, to be negotiated with the
Government. This is a contractual position. Candidates may not belong to the civil service.
Location of assignment: Praia
Duration of contract:    Two years - renewable (with a maximum term of.five years
Date of entry on duty:



89
Annex 13
Page 4 of 5
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR THE EDUCATION COMPONENT COORDINATOR
Description of duties
1.1    Under the authority of the Project Coordinator of the PCU, the Education Component Coordinator will
be responsible for coordinating the activities planned in the Basic Education component of the project. In this
capacity the Coordinator will supervise the preparation of all the documents for informnation and approval relating
to the programming, monitoring and implementation of the activities planned by the project.
1.2    More specifically, the Education Component Coordinator will be responsible for the following:
(a)    ensuring that the activities of each of the parties (the directorates of the MES, IPN and MIC) involved in
the implementation of the component are geared to the assigned objectives as formulated in the
description of each sub-component.
(b)    ensuring that there is compliance with the implementation programs and schedules;
(c)    preparing all the documentation relating to the education component needed for the annual reviews of
progress and action plans with the donors;
(d)    assisting the component managers with the preparation of their work plans and annual budgets;
(e)    ensuring the consistency of the activities and the complementarity of the resources utilized;
(f)    ensuring the coordination of the activities of the specialist services planned under the project and giving
advice on the selection of experts and consultants;
(g)    ensuring the monitoring of the training given locally and abroad and coordinating the activities involved
in the selection of fellowship candidates;
(h)    preparing periodic reports on the progress of activities, which may contain  recommendations for the
authorities and for the Project Coordinator.
(i)    contributing to the preparation of future projects.
1.3    Candidates must have at least the following qualifications:
-      a university education (training related to economics, planning of education;
-      at least three years' experience in a post of equivalent responsibility in management or public or private
administration functions;
-      experience during the last three years in the area of programming and financial and human resource
management;
-      a good knowledge of the education sector;
-      references from the last three years confirming an aptitude for work organization, coordinating various
teams and the possession of professional integrity.
Terms of employment
1.4    The terms of employment will be contained in a two-year renewable contract to be negotiated with the
Government. The Coordinator may be a civil servant but the contract, in this case, may not be financed from the
proceeds of the IDA credit.
Location of assignment: Praia
Term of contract:     Two years, renewable (with a maximum term of five years)
Date of entry on duty:



90
Annex 13
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR THE TRAINING COMPONENT COORDINATOR
1.1    Under the authority of the Project Coordinator of the PCU, the Training Component Coordinator will be
responsible for monitoring and coordinating the activities planned in the training component of the project,
working in collaboration with the Institute for Employment and Training (IET). In this capacity the Training
Component Coordinator will oversee the preparation of all documents for information and approval relating to the
programming, monitoring and implementation of the actions planned under the project.
1.2    More specifically, the Training Component Coordinator will be responsible for the following:
(a)    ensuring that the activities of each of the parties (CCNEF, the Directorates of the MTJAS and the IET)
involved in the implementation of the component contribute to the accomplishment of the objectives set,
as formulated in the description of each sub-component;
(b)    ensuring compliance with the implementation programs and schedules, which he shall update regularly;
(c)    preparing all the documentation relating to the training component needed for the annual reviews of
progress and action plans with the donors;
(d)    assisting the leaders of the TSF Executive Committee and component managers with the preparation of
their work plans and their annual budgets;
(e)    monitoring the meetings of the National Consultative Council for Employment and Training (CCNEF)
and the TSF Executive Committee and reporting on the follow-up of their decisions.
(f)    coordinating the activities of consulting services planned under the project and requesting assistance from
IET in advising on the selection of specialists and consultants;
(g)    Monitoring, with the assistance of IET, the training given locally and abroad and coordinating the
activities for the selection of scholarship candidates;
(h)    Preparing periodic activity progress reports, with possible recommendations, for the authorities and the
Project Coordinator of the project.
(i)    Helping to prepare future projects.
Qualifications required
1.3    The candidate must have at least the following qualifications:
-      a university-level education (training related to economics, planning or training;
-      at least three years' experience in a post of equivalent responsibility in management or public or private
administration functions;
-      experience during the last three years in the field of financial and human resource programming and
management;
-      a good knowledge of the education, training and employment sector;
-      references from the last three years confirming an aptitude for work organization, coordinating various
teams and possession of professional integrity.
Terms of employment:
1.4    The terms of employment will be contained in a two-year renewable contract to be negotiated with the
Government. The Coordinator may be a civil servant, but the contract, in this case, may not be financed from the
proceeds of the IDA credit.
Assignment location:    Praia
Term of contract:     Two years, renewable (with a maximum term of five years)
Date of entry on duty:






91
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROTECT
Supervision Plan
1.     Bank support in the area of supervision. Normal supervision requirements are described in the table
below.  Certain additional tasks, such as the review of progress reports on the project, procurement and
disbursement, auditing, etc. will probably require the services of various specialists for a total of four weeks each
year.
2.     Borrower's role where supervision is concerned
(a)    Progress reports on the project shall be submitted twice a year, i.e. in April and October; these will
comprise a summary of the implementation of each project component, together with financial tables.
The Manager-Coordinator of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will gather contributions from the
Component Coordinators and prepare the reports.
(b)    The coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the project shall be the responsibility of the PCU.
(c)    Once a year, in October, a joint meeting of the Government and donors will be held to examine all
aspects of the project on the basis of a report prepared one month beforehand by the PCU. The joint
annual reviews will be chaired by the Director of Planning of the Ministry of Economic Coordination. A
comprehensive review of the progress made in project implementation will be made in November 1997;
(d)    The PCU will be responsible for coordinating the arrangements to be made for IDA's supervision
missions and for providing these missions with the necessary information. The heads of the agencies
involved will accompany the missions in the field.
(e)    Information meetings for the missions, on both their arrival and departure, will be chaired by the
Director of Planning of MEC and attended by PCU staff and the directors of administration representing
the implementing agencies.
3.     Role of other donors where supervision is concerned. The other donors shall be consulted concerning
supervision activities and shall be invited to participate in these.  They will be kept informed of terms of
reference, aide-memoires and the findings of IDA supervision missions. There are plans for donors to participate
in the joint annual review in April and for them to add their expertise to the supervision missions.



92
Annex 14
Pagze 2of2
SCHEDULE OF WORLD BANK SUPERVISION MISSIONS
ARoroximate dates       Activities               Area of Expertise         Staff time
(month/year)                                                               (man-week)
April 1995               Project kick-off seminar   Project Officer        10
and first supervision   Procurement Expert
mission to examine      Vocational Training
project start-up.        Specialist
School-Planning
Specialist
Specialist in the
Administration of
Education Services
December 1995            Supervision mission      Project Officer          6
Procurement Expert
=___ ____ ____ ____ ___   ________ ___Financial  Analyst
May 1995                 Supervision Mission      Project Officer          6
Procurement Specialist
l________________  Civil Engineering Expert
November 1996            Supervision/First Joint    Project Officer        6
Review Performance of    Training Specialist
TSF.                    School Planning
Specialist
May 1997                 Supervision mission     Project Officer          4
Procurement Expert     _
NMbec 1998               Supervision             Project Officer           8
mismreview    Training Specialist
School Planning
Specialist
_______________  ______________Cilvil Engineeing Expert
March 1998               Supervision mission     Project Officer          6
Training Specialist
School Planning
____ ____ ____ ____ ____   __ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ Specialist
November 1998            Supervision mission     Project Officer          6
May 1999                Supervision mission      Project Officer          4
Procurement Expert
November 1999           Supervision/third joint    Project officer        4
review                  Civil Engineering Expert
May 2000                Supervision mission/ICR   Project Officer         6
Financial Analyst
Procurement Expert



Annex 15
Page 1 of 2
PROCUREMENT ARRANOEMENTS
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDUJLE
Pro project   ____________Prolect Year    ___________                                    Total      Procure     Iof
_______________________  1994          1995           1986          1997          1998          1999         Payment      -mewnt   Packages
Project Elements\Quarters    ...2..3....1l..I.... ...3....l..I..I...I....3.....I........ 000 UJS*                                 Method   Contracts
Board            X
Slgnature/Effectiveress/Closlng  __ _ _ _ _   X  X_           _ _ _  __   _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  __X               _  _ _  _ _    _  _
A. WORKS                                                                                                                  5653
1. School Conetruaonh                                                                                                      5441
1.1. New Classrooms                      dd                    dddddbbe      dddddbbe      dddddbbe
IDA 1                  - Acmw wwwwwwwAc wwwwwwwAc wwwwwwwAc wwwww                                  2912    LCB        30
IDA 2              ddbbecwwww  wwww                                                                1402    LCB        i5
1.2. Classrooms Rehabilitation                  dddddbbe wwwwww708   NBF/G                                                                    30
1.3. Schools Rehabitatlon    ______             dddddbbe Acmwwwwww Acmwwwwwww____________419    LCB                                           10
2. Other Infraat,ucturee                1                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~212
2.1. New Employment Centers                 dddddbbe
Mkidelo                      ~Acmw wwwww                               I56    LCB                                                              1
Fogo and Sao Antao                                        ddbbecwwwww                                                       110   NBF/G        2
2.2 Rehabilitation                          dddddbbe
Praia Employment Center                          -Acmw wwwww                                                                  12   LCB         1
Offices in MLYSA              __ ___ _____wwwww                                        _ ____35    LCB 
B. EQUIPMENT                                                                                                               748
1. Pedegogloal Equ4nmnt                                                                                                     S0W
1.1. Teachtng Kkts/School end                         dod AbbeA         AbbeA
Teachers reference library                                  cmmww www   cmrmw www                                        211   ICB         2
1.2. Technical Eduication Eqpt                                      dod AbbeA                                                184   Ice         2
Textbooks /reacters' guides ______cmmwww   wwwwww                                                                       106   ICB          1
2. Offioe Equipt & Suappba                            dod AbbeA                                                             128
2.1. For MLYSA and PCU       _ ____ _____                       cmmwww www            _ ____128   ICB                                          1
3. Vehlciee                                                                                                                 120
3.1. F-or Employmeknt Centers                         ddd AbboA                                                              83
For Dept of Labor wan PCU    ___________                    cmmww  ___________37    ICB                                                    1
C. FURNITURE                                                                                                               861
1. School Furniure                       dd Abb.A         Abb.A         AbbeA         AbbeA         AbbeA
For 200 Classrooms                              cmmwww        cmmnwww       cmmwww         cmmwww        cmmnwww            838    LCB        12
2. Office Furniture                                   ddd Abb.A
F-or the DL/Empl. Ctrs and PCU    ___________                   cmmww  ___________231                                                          1
D. TEXTBOOKS                                                                                                               637
For EBI stuidenvts (reprlnts)                            IddAbbeA cnfiw               ddAbbeA cnnIww                         3      C 
r: recruitment of consultant - d: bid docslLoilTdr - b: biddinig period - e: evaluation - A: approval (Bank/Govt) -  NBF/G: Financed by Government
c: contract signature - m: mobilization/manufacturing - w: works, suppl[Anstallation or execution of services      _______________
CVPROSCH.XLS- 12/1/94-1 1:00 AM






Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
Pro project                               Project Year                                  Total      Procure    S of
1994          1995          1996          1997         1998          1999         Payment      -mrent   Package
Project Elemants\Quarters   .1.1..2.-...3..1.4., .1.I..2..1..3..1.4.. .11.1..2..1..3..1.4.. .1.1-..2..1..3..1.4.. .1.12--.3..1.4.. 1.2..1..3..1.4.   000 US$  Method   Contracts
E. TRAINING                                                                                                              1895
1. Local Tr,Iin                                                                                                          1701
Comp. 1.2: Upgrade EBI teachers                      ww wwwwww                                                             390   OTH        n.a.
Conp. 2.3: Apprenticeships                 wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww                                670   OTH        n.a.
aid Profesional Education                  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww                                504   OTH        n.a.
Comp. 3.1: MOES Staff/lanning                                 ww            ww                                             117   OTH        n.s.
Corn.3.2: Empl. Center Staff               _w                                                                               20   OTH        n.s.
2. Overseas Trainng                                                                                                        194
Comp. 3.1: MOES Staff/Planning                       ww    www                                                              66   OTH        n.a.
Cornp.3.2: Dir. of Labor Staff                              www           www           www                                128   OTH        n.s.
F. TRAIN. SUP. FUND                        wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww                               450    OTH        n.a.
0. SPECIAUSTS
SERVICES/STUDIES                                                                                                         1425
LO/TOFW/Sh. L. for Aproval                dde           dde           dde           dde                                                 514rn.mth
Award/Contact review by IDA                    Sc            sc            aac           Sa                                                h total
1. Aroh/Eng./Supvn                                                                                                        314
Comp. 1.1: DAO/Superv. worka                   wwwwww wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwww                                  314   OTH        n.a.
2. Audk ad Aoo_midn,                                                                                                       198              n.a.
Set accourting svtemn/Suppot                   wwwwww          w             w             w                                                n.a.               4
Annuwl eudita/Project C.U./TSF                           www           www           www           www                     198   OTH        n.a.
3. Spec. or Loeal Svies                                                                                                    634              n.a.
Conri. 1.2: EBI teacher upgrade                      ww                                                                     72   OTH        n.a.
Camp. 2.1: Tea. Ed. Reform Plan                              wwwwww                                                         10   OTH        n.a.
Comp. 2.3: Apprent. Supevisr               wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww                                 83   OTH        n.n.
Comp. 3.1: School map. samnwr                            ww                                                                  3   OTH        n.a.
and NutntionjHeahh Surveys                              wwwwwww                                                            51   OTH
Comp. 3.2: Labor narket and                                                                                                       OTH
Training Specialists/lET support                 wwwww wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwww                                 273   OTH        n.e.
Comrp. 3.3: PCU Accountant                 wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww                                142   OTH
4. Speak"t A      rntommi                                                                                                  27z              n.a.
Comps 1.2: EBI teacher. upgrade                  wwwww www                                                                  61    OTH       n.a.
Comp. 3.1: School mnp                                         ww                                                            26   OTH        n.s.
Survey MOES functions                                    wwww                                                               27   OTH        n.a.
School feading pilt program                                                   wwww wwww                                     40   OTH        n.s.
Achievement taste                              www           www           www           www           www                  17   OTH        n.a.
Padagogic materis deveopmt                               wwww                                                               28   OTH        n.a.
Comp.3.2: Labor mrktlTrng Sp.             I       wwww wwww           I _           I _                                     80   OTH        n.s.
OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                                       n.a.
IDA              wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww                                699   OTH        n.a.
GOVT               wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww                               3499  NBF/G       n.a.
TOTAL IDA                                                                                                      11460
NBF                                                                                                          4326
TOTAL COST          I__                                                                                       15776  _
r: recruitment of consultant - d: bid docs/Loi/Tdr - b: bidding period - e: evaluation - a: approval (Bank/Govtl -  NBF/G: Financed by Government
c: contract signature - m: mobilization/manufacturing - w: works, supplyrinstallation or execution of services
CVPROSCH.XLS-1 2/1/94-11:03 AM






95                                Annex 16
Page 1 of 1
Prior Review Threshold, Contract Profile by Value/Number
Estimated            Cumulative            Percentage
Range of             value (no.) of        value (no.)           of total
Contract values      contracts within      above                 value (no.)
(incl. Contingencies)    each range        threshold             above
(US thousand)        (US million)          (US million)          threshold
1                    2                     3                     4
GOODS
Value      Number    Value      Number    Value       Number
200 and above               0.8         (3)       0.8         (3)      36%        (9%)
100 to 199                  0.9         (9)       1.7       (12)       77%       (38%)
Threshold
50 to 99                    0.3        (15)       2.0       (27)       91%       (84%)
0 to 49                     0.2         (5)       2.2        (32)     100%      (100%)
Duration of procurement is about four years
WORKS
Value     Number    Value       Number    Value       Number
300 and above               0.3         (1)       0.3         (1)       6%        (1%)
200 to 299                  0.7         (3)       1.0         (4)      21 %       (2%)
100 to 199                  0.9         (7)       1.9       (11)       40%        (6%)
Threshold
30 to 99                    1.6        (50)       3.5       (61)       73%       (34%)
0 to 29                     1.3       (120)       4.8      (181)      100%      (100%)
Duration of procurement is about four years
* Threshold selection correspond to a desirable percentage coverage of contract value (around 77%
for goods and 40% for works)
CVTHRES3.XLS12/1/94/






CAPE VERDE
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINIG PROJECT
(BETP)
Disburuwment Prof IreofN de Dbouruwnents
DinWm Stoi                ProU  w                                           Baic Education and Triaimo Project  -             CountrV Al Sctors Prof i
MA fi       W d                                    CAm   Al
qu o         6yl Ouma                  Crdat       t100%
Amw  budeamafS.mw de
AM4 a it L inw   hI d tjSSaiU   -Cuumt     CAN*      PO'a                              90%
1096                                                                                    0      -
2                                   _                                  .~   80%
-                   os           l                     _;                                                                 --E
4            0.3          0.3      3%        3%
1903        1            0.4          0.7      *s        6%
2            0.6          1.2     10o       10%Ss                           70%
3            0.8          1.6     16%       14%
4            0.6          2.4      21S       16%                            60%
1317        1            0.7          3.1     27%A      1s3A
2            0.6          3.6     34A       22%
3            0.6         4.7       41%      26%                             6      -./
4            0.9          6.6     40%       20%                         *   50%
lo"6        1            0.9         6. 6  57s          30Z                        r
2            0.6         7.3      63%       341                             40%
3            0.0          6.1     70%       38/%
4            0.7          6.6     76%       m0%
le"         1            0.7         0.4      92%       62%                             30%
2            0.6         10.0     67%        "A%
3            0.6         10.6      32%      70%                        l/
4            0.3         10.9     96%       76%                             20%
2000        1            0.3         11.2     07%       62%
2            0.3        11.6    10% l3O                               a
10%
0%
a             a             a              a             ah  
a             oa            a              a             a              r
-~ ~ " -               r              -              14
a 14
CVD3.X1LS 2s11WS4I












IBRD 26149
SANTO ANTAO                                                   C    P           E     D
p i _ Y    5ANTO ANTAO                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~C  A  P  E   v  E  R  D  E
BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
--.*    *7  sAO VICENTE
-           _<Q. SNTA  LUZIA
' ^ s                ~~~~~SAO NlCOtAU                                                    -          SAL
B,}w3onco     -,     R, 
R..
A   a/ n tc
*   T-okolS  l S4-6                                                                                    BOA do`TAI
o i                                                               0  C e a n
4 ~*   En  cCn ,,f,,,,>f
mi-       .                                                                                       I /      
-   0 wrob                                                                                     {         J//
*   Nhb,dioo il *i
,o   TC..,                      /x,oo..ernfi0   T0  20  20   40  X0  JC                               (    
10     20      10      4                             f   ,I\
EIoo<i~  l0tO~a
E|       Qo 5- soo                                                              SANTIAGO           K
SR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
- a'-1 ''                                                                                                         V44.M -2 .r
-a.  *-SMw--'--'-                                                                                           -'_V I''  s_  S '"  ~' "   ,.t1
C__                       R            +s          [*X   -                                                                                   ,a.'



