Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2675 CV
Development Credit Agreement
(Basic Education and Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 24, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2675 CV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 24, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated December 8, 1995, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies to achieve 
adjustment of the Borrower's education sector (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MOES" means Ministerio de Educacao e do Desporto, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Education and Sports;
(b)
"FEE" means the Fundo de Edicao Escolar (the textbook revolving fund) 
established within MOES under Decreto-Lei No. 3-95;
(c)
"IET" means the Instituto do Emprego e Formacao Profissional (the 
Institute of Employment and Training), an autonomous entity established by Decreto-Lei 
No. 51/94;
(d)
"Implementation Manual" means the Manual adopted by the Borrower for 
implementation of the Project pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(e)
"MEC" means the Ministerio de Coordenacao Economica, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Economic Coordination;
(f)
"MLYSA" means Ministerio do Trabalho, Juventude, e Promocao Social, the 
Borrower's Ministry of Labor, Youth and Social Affairs;
(g)
"NACET" means Conselho Nacional do Emprego e da Formacao, the Borrower's 
National Advisory Council for Employment and Training, which includes representatives 
from relevant Ministries, relevant Trade Unions and employers' associations and which 
assist the Borrower in formulating policies in relation to training and employment;
(h)
"PCU" means the Project Coordinating Unit within MEC; 
 
(i)
"Pedagogic Institute" means the Instituto Pedagogico of the Borrower 
within MOES;
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter of agreement and a 
letter of extension dated December 31, 1992 and June 20, 1994, respectively, between 
the Borrower and the Association;
(k)
"TSF" means Fundo de Promocao do Emprego e da Formacao, the training 
support fund established within MLYSA by Decreto-Lei No. 52/94;
(l)
"TSF Procedural Manual" means the Procedural Manual adopted by the 
Borrower for operating the TSF pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement; and
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Page  3
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15, commencing May 15, 2005 and ending November 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2014 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
Page  4
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MEC, MOES and MLYSA, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, educational and pedagogical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the Implementation Manual.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. By no later than July 31, 1995, the Borrower shall issue 
regulations, satisfactory to the Association, under its Law No. 103-111-90 dated 
December 29, 1990, to implement
the Borrower's compulsory education program described in the Program.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, to implement the technical education reform under 
Part B of the Project shall: (a) prepare by no later than June 30, 1996, a transition 
plan and timetable, satisfactory to the Association, to develop and introduce: (i) a 
revised technical education  structure, (ii) a new curriculum for all schools 
nationwide, and (iii) admission standards for secondary schools; and (b) introduce, by 
no later than October 30, 1996, in accordance with the agreed transition plan and 
timetable referred to in subparagraph (a) above, all appropriate regulations and 
measures necessary or desirable for implementation.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
implement the recruitment and deployment of teachers in accordance with 
the teachers' plan as set forth in the Program;
(b)
implement the agreed action plan as set forth in the Implementation 
Manual, and provide the funds and human resources necessary for its implementation, in 
a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
ensure that funds received by the FEE from textbook sales shall be used 
exclusively for financing the reprinting of students' textbooks.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) operate, throughout the implementation of 
the Project, the TSF in accordance with the TSF Procedural Manual, and in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) cause, no later than December 31, 1996, a 
technical auditor, with qualifications and experience and on terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, to carry
out a review of the operation and performance of the TSF.
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
Page  5
the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account and those of the FEE 
for each fiscal 
year and those of the TSF for each six-month period, 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  6
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Decreto-Lei No. 52/94 establishing the TSF has been revoked, suspended or 
varied in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of Part B (ii) of the Project; and
(b)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has: (i) appointed an external auditor acceptable to the 
Association to conduct semiannual financial and technical audits of the TSF; and (ii) 
designated members, acceptable to the Association, of the Executive Committee of the 
TSF;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed staff with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association, within each relevant Department within MOES, to be 
responsible for Project implementation and to coordinate project-related activities 
with the PCU;
(c)
MEC has established a financial management and accounting system for the 
Project and appointed an accountant within the PCU with qualifications and experience 
and on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and such accountant has 
taken up his post;
(d)
the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement under a multi-year contract acceptable to the Association; and
(e)
the Borrower has adopted a project implementation manual and a procedural 
manual for the TSF, satisfactory to the Association, detailing procedures for carrying 
out activities under the Project and of the TSF, respectively.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
CP 506
Praia
Cabo Verde
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  7
FINANCAS
6056 MFGCV
Cabo Verde
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ Corentino V. Santos
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                2,880,000           100%
(2) Goods                      1,270,000           100%
    (including
    textbooks)
(3) Training                   1,070,000           100%
Page  8
(4) TSF Costs                    260,000           100%
(5) Consultants'                 730,000           100%
    Services
(6) Operating Costs              330,000           100%
(7) Incremental                   60,000           100% for payments
    Operating Costs                                made through
                                                   December 31,
                                                   1996, 65% for
                                                   payments made
                                                   through
                                                   December 31,
                                                   1998 and 35% for
                                                   payments there-
                                                   after
(8) Refunding of                 330,000           Amounts due
    Project                                        pursuant to
    Preparation                                    Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                        of this Agreement
(9) Unallocated                  870,000
                               _________
        TOTAL                  7,800,000
                               =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Operating Costs" means incremental recurring costs excluding 
the Borrower's Civil Service salaries and expenditures of IET and the employment 
centers but including the following:
(i)
staff expenses and overnight allowances;
 
(ii)
cost of operating vehicles, premises and equipment required for 
the Project;
(iii)
maintenance of Project equipment, premises, vehicles and office 
facilities;
(iv)
Project-related transport costs; and
 
(v)
office administration and communication.
 
(b)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means: (i) expenditures incurred 
by employment centers and by IET for salaries of additional technical staff, and (ii) 
operating and maintenance costs for items acquired for IET and the employment centers 
under Category 2 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule; and
(c)
the term "TSF Costs" means expenditures incurred in support of training 
programs, initial expenses, staff expenses, per diems, travel costs, stationery, 
office and administrative
costs incurred for operation of the TSF.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, 
works and services not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing its 
long-term educational development strategy by: (1) providing a minimum of six years of 
basic education for all children through the introduction of an integrated basic 
education cycle; (2) improving the quality, skills and productivity of the work force 
by enhancing the relevance and quality of the vocational and technical training 
system; and (3) strengthening institutional capacity within the Borrower's education 
and training sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
The Integrated Basic Education System
 
Provision of infrastructure and pedagogic support to the nationwide introduction 
of universal and compulsory primary education through:
1.
Carrying out of a program for the construction and rehabilitation of classrooms, 
including the construction and furnishing of approximately 300 new classrooms, 
remodelling of approximately 25 schools, provision of pedagogical equipment and 
services to support implementation of the Program;
2.
upgrading of the Pedagogic Institute and training and deployment of primary 
school teachers, including: specialist services and training for the assessment of 
qualifications of existing primary school teachers, implementation of an upgrading 
program during calendar years 1995 and 1996, adoption of a teachers' deployment plan 
and the development of core teams of pedagogic advisors to provide continuous 
on-the-job training to teachers over the Project period; and
3.
provision of pedagogic materials (including teachers' guides and textbooks) and 
establishment of a sustainable textbook supply and distribution system (the FEE).
Part B:
Improvement of Technical Education and Training
 
The introduction of reforms by the Borrower to increase the skill level and 
productivity of entrants to the education work force through:
1.
provision of consultants' and specialist services, support for the national 
dialogue on technical education reform (through workshops and disseminations), 
acquisition of educational equipment (including computers), and supply of books and 
materials to assist the Borrower in implementing reforms to improve secondary 
education, including, inter alia, development of entrance examinations, revision of 
teaching curricula, identification of learning and teaching materials
and equipment, in-service retraining of teachers and the establishment of advisory 
committees at the local level;
2.
improvement of the quality and relevance of training programs, encouragement of 
the growth of private sector training institutions and improvement of public training 
agencies through the establishment of the TSF to provide support to enterprise-based, 
on-the-job training and demand-
driven training programs in public, private and nongovernmental organizations' 
training centers; and
3.
facilitation of school-to-work transition, promotion of the informal sector and 
strengthening of private sector development by:
(a)
improving apprenticeship training of at least 900 apprentices,
 
(b)
establishing and operating a scholarship program in accordance with 
eligibility criteria,
(c)
financing approximately five professional education programs for the 
benefit of approximately 100 students, and
Page  10
(d)
financing the management and supervision for the training and programs 
referred to in (a), (b) and (c) above.
Part C:
Development of Institutional Capacity
 
Strengthening the Borrower's existing capacity to formulate policies and 
implement programs in education, training and the educational work force by:
1.
under MOES: reinforcing its planning, implementation and managerial capacity at 
the central and regional levels, supporting the transfer of technical and 
administrative responsibilities to regional education offices and strengthening the 
relationship between schools and communities
through the provision of contractual services (including the Component Coordinator) 
and training;
2.
under MLYSA: increasing institutional capacity to monitor training and provide 
employment services through:
(a)
strengthening capacity within IET to undertake surveys and produce and 
disseminate relevant reports and information including renovation of its facilities, 
provision of equipment
and furniture for IET, the carrying out of labor market and employment studies, 
provision of training, locally and abroad, for IET staff and provision of specialist 
consultants' services
(including those of senior personnel and the training Component Coordinator);
(b)
rehabilitating and equipping the existing employment center in Praia, 
constructing and equipping a new employment center in Mindelo and equipping the two 
new employment centers to be constructed in Ponta do Sol and Sao Filipe;
(c)
the provision of training for staff of the employment centers and 
technical assistance for the operation of all of the employment centers referred to in 
paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
creation and operation of NACET to develop national policies towards 
employment and training; and
3.
under MEC: establishing the PCU, providing office equipment and furniture for 
the PCU, and providing necessary staff (including a Project Coordinator and staff for 
carrying out accounting and auditing services).
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation.  With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
Page  11
accordance with the provisions of Part E.2 (a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds 
sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(c)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods, in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A (1) hereof, goods manufactured in Cape Verde may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works, in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A (1) hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for works under contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,834,000 
and subject to paragraph 2 below, items or groups of items of goods estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$960,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $150,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from either at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines or through the United Nations Development 
Programme's Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for works or goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) the first four contracts in respect of 
the TSF, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  12
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for the purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
recruitment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$35,000 equivalent, respectively. However, this exception to prior Association review 
shall not apply (a) to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment 
of individuals, (b) to single-source selection of firms, (c) to assignments of a 
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, or (d) amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value to above the aforementioned prior review 
thresholds.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals (from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions) shall be 
Page  13
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of  Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  14
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any timethat any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is maintained within MEC throughout the 
execution of the Project. The PCU  shall be headed by a Project Coordinator assisted 
by an accountant and maintained with sufficient staff to promote inter-agency 
cooperation. The Project Coordinator shall also liaise with two Component Coordinators 
within MOES and MLYSA, respectively, each Component Coordinator to coordinate a 
component of the Project. The Component Coordinators shall have  suitable experience 
and qualifications and be employed on terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and in accordance with the Implementation Manual.
2.
In respect of the development of its institutional capacity, the MOES will, 
inter alia: (a) complete the school map and management information system, (b) provide 
training for MOE Directorates, regional delegates and school directors, (c) support 
school-level monitoring and evaluation of student achievement, and (d) improve the 
effectiveness of school feeding programs.
3.
Incentives will be provided to training centers to develop demand-driven 
training programs through the TSF (headed by an Executive Committee) in MLYSA and 
assisted by the Component Coordinators and the PCU, to fund eligible public, private 
and nongovernment organization training centers and support eligible enterprise-based 
on-the-job training, eligibility being determined in accordance with the TSF 
Procedural Manual.
4.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
no later than May 30 of each year (other than 1997, in which year the 
midterm review referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall take place) until the 
completion of the Project, conduct with the Association Project implementation reviews 
to:
(i)
discuss annual Project and Program evaluations,
 
(ii)
monitor progress made in achieving Project objectives,
 
(iii)
exchange information among staff responsible for Project 
implementation,
Page  15
(iv)
identify implementation issues and propose solutions for any 
current problems, 
and
 
(v)
update Project timetables and cost estimates; and
 
(b)
promptly, thereafter, carry out the recommendations arising out of each 
annual implementation review, as agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
5.
(a)
The Borrower, through MEC, in collaboration with MOES and MLYSA, shall 
carry out, jointly with the Association, by no later than November 15, 1997, a midterm 
review of the progress
made in carrying out the Project and the Program.
(b)
The terms of reference of the midterm review shall be acceptable to the 
Association and shall include an assessment of:
(i)
all matters set forth in paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule;
 
(ii)
MLYSA's role in the execution of the Project;
 
(iii)
textbook procurement and distribution, and textbook replenishment 
under the 
FEE;
 
(iv)
progress in the execution and management of civil works;
 
(v)
management of the educational facilities constructed or 
rehabilitated under 
Part A (i) of the Project;
 
(vi)
progress in the redeployment of teachers in accordance with the 
Program;
(vii)
the training and recruitment of new primary school teachers under 
Part A (ii) 
of the Project;
 
(viii) implementation of training activities and the performance of staff 
trained 
under Part B (ii) of the Project; and
 
(ix)
Project management.
 
In addition, as part of the midterm review, the Borrower shall prepare a program of 
action, satisfactory to the Association, to deal with deficiencies in Project 
implementation identified
prior to the review.
(c)
MEC shall transmit to the Association, at least 10 days prior to the 
midterm review described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, a report, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Association, describing the status of the items listed in 
such paragraphs and of Project and Program implementation generally.
(d)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly: (i) prepare an action 
plan, acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project and 
the Program and shall thereafter implement such action plan; and (ii) adopt and 
thereafter implement a budget, satisfactory to the Association, containing minimum 
annual allocations of funds to cover recurrent costs required for the education sector 
(including the Pedagogic Institute and IET) for the remainder of the Project period.
