                   INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                         RESTRUCTURING STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 12/16/2011                                    Report No.: AC6603
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Argentina                           Project ID: P095569
Project Name: AR APL2 National Highway Asset Mgt
Task Team Leader: Gylfi Palsson
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 17, 2007       Estimated Board Date: June 28, 2007
Managing Unit: LCSTR                         Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program
                                             Loan
Sector: Roads and highways (94%);General public administration sector (4%);General
education sector (2%)
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (29%);Infrastructure services for private sector
development (29%);Environmental policies and institutions (14%);Injuries and non-
communicable diseases (14%);Administrative and civil service reform (14%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):           400
IDA Amount (US$m.):              0
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         Borrower                                                     935.10
                                                                      935.10
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                   Yes [ ]      No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to further preserve the Non-Concessioned National
Road Network, through the expansion of CREMA Contracts for said network; and (b) to
further strengthen DNVs road sector management capacity.

3. Project Description
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the following
parts:

 Part 1:    Non-Concessioned National Road Network Rehabilitation and
Maintenance

 (a) Carrying out, under the terms of eight (8) CREMA Contracts (listed in the
Implementation Letter), of rehabilitation works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing,
or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or maintenance works for approximately 1,417
kilometers of the Non-Concessioned National Road Network, which CREMA Contracts
were procured or are to be procured under the National Highway Asset Management
Project-Phase I.

 (b) Carrying out, under the terms of twelve (12) CREMA Contracts, of rehabilitation
works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or
maintenance works for approximately 1,873 kilometers of the Non-Concessioned
National Road Network.

 (c) Carrying out, under the terms of fifty (50) CREMA Contracts, of rehabilitation
works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or
maintenance works for approximately 7,637 kilometers of the Non-Concessioned
National Road Network.

 Part 2:       Bridge Restoration and Construction Management

 (a) Bridge restoration works for approximately eight (8) bridges of the Non-
Concessioned National Road Network (which works consist of either the widening of the
deck from less than seven (7) meters to about nine (9) to ten (10) meters or the total
replacement and reconstruction of the pertinent bridge within the existing right of way);

 (b) Carrying out of engineering design studies for the bridge restoration of about
twenty bridges (20) of the Non-Concessioned National Road Network.

 Part 3:       Road Safety

 (a) Design and implementation of a large-scale road safety pilot program in at least
one corridor of the Non-Concessioned National Road Network (selected by DNV in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank), the program consists of, inter alia: (i)
the design of a system to monitor and evaluate the impact of said program; (ii) the design
of an education and communication strategy, including the implementation of selected
activities under said strategy such as the upgrading of current road safety educational
practices at schools and the carrying out of an awareness campaign along said two
corridors (including all urban centers within said corridors); (iii) the preparation of
engineering designs for the upgrading of safety standards in said corridors; and (iv) the
upgrading of safety standards, which upgrading consists of, inter alia, roadway edge
widening and marking, placing rubble strips and obstacle shields along roadsides, placing
horizontal markings, improving urban crossings and increasing size and quality of signs.

 (b) Upgrading of safety standards of about seven (7) selected critical black spots of
the Non-Concessioned National Road Network, which upgrading consists of, inter alia,
the improvement of lightning and lightning design, roadway edge widening and marking,
placing rubble strips and obstacle shields along roadsides, placing horizontal markings,
improving urban crossings and increasing size and quality of signs; and (ii) if necessary,
construction works in said selected critical black spots, which works consist of replacing
intersections by more efficient round-about arrangements.
 Part 4:       Institutional Renewal

 Carrying out of the following Project activities (which activities described in paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) below complement the activities carried out or to be carried out under the
National Highway Asset Management Project-Phase I in respect of the institutional
renewal program for DNV set fort therein):

  (a) (i) provision of support to DNV’s secondary and tertiary education program,
through the financing of the Education Eligible Unit Cost in the DNV’s schools set forth
in the Operational Manual; (ii) provision of technical assistance to DNV to improve the
quality and efficiency of the program mentioned in (i) herein; and (iii) provision of
training to DNV’s professional staff on area to be selected by DNV in a manner
acceptable to the Bank;

 (b) strengthening the environmental capacity of DNV, through, inter alia: (i) the
provision of training to DNV’s staff on potentia environmental and social consequences
of road construction; (ii) the dissemination of the contents of the Updated Environmental
Evaluation and Management Manual; and (iii) the carrying out of studies on the
identification and improved management of environmental liabilities within the Non-
Concessioned National Road Network;

  (c) provision of technical support to DNV on financial management matters, which
consists of, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of a diagnostic of DNV’s Department of
Administration and Finance, and thereafter, design and implementation of an action plan,
acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall include the recommendations of said diagnostic,
and the Bank’s comments thereon, if any); and (ii) the provision of training to DNV’s
staff (assigned to work under the Department of Administration and Finance) on public
finance, accounting, project finance, and economic and financial legislation;

 (d)     (i) carrying out of studies on road safety, territorial development, and on the
integration of the roads networks at the national and provincial levels; and (ii) provision
of technical support to DNV to assist the same in the implementation of the human
resources plan being designed under the National Highway Asset Management Project-
Phase I; and

 (e) Provision of technical support to DNV to upgrade its technology communications
systems.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
Rehabilitation and maintenance of the Non-Concessioned paved National Road Network

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Mr Jose Vicente Zevallos (LCSSO)
   Ms Ruth Tiffer-Sotomayor (LCSEN)
   Ms Lilian Pedersen (LCSSO)
  Ms Elba Lydia Gaggero (LCSEN)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                               Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                          X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                           X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                       X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                    X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
At the time of appraisal the only safeguard policy envisioned was OP 4.01 on
Environmental Assessment. Following review of existing and particularly remaining
planned mallas and bridge restoration to be tendered under Part 1 and Part 2 of the
Project, it was found that there is the need to trigger six additional OPs through this
proposed restructuring. The project continues to be classified as a Category B project.

  Of a group of 8 mallas (financed with local funds) and one bridge bidding documents
revised by the team, all triggered the restructuring and the Environmental Policies to be
triggered, except the Natural Habitats Safeguard which is triggered only by Malla 114.

 A total of 11 mallas and three bridges remained to be bidden and awarded for the
restructured phase under the new guidelines developed. DNV will ensure that the project
would have regular environmental supervision by qualified environmental specialists.

 According to the MEGA manual and screening procedures, Malla contracts do not
performed consultations. Consultations are required only for new roads. However, in the
case of Mallas crossing sensible areas like national parks or cultural protected areas,
DNV consults to the National Park Authority or the Provincial Cultural Resources
Authority. Also in most Mallas, the municipality and other local authorities are consulted
to avoid impact on public services.

 The Operational Manual will be revised and updated to include an updated
environmental checklist and agreed additional environmental procedures for the
remaining mallas and bridges contracts to be awarded.

 Table 1: New Safeguard Policies to be triggered
 Safeguard Policies to be triggered. Explanation

 •    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04): Malla 114 (to be awarded), crosses the National Park
Nahuel Huapi a protected area within the Provinces of Rio Negro and Neuquén.

 •     Forestry (OP 4.36): Possible commercial use of wood from bush-tree clearance.
Reforestation activities are developed in some mallas.

 •     Pest Management (OP 4.09): Use of agro-chemicals permitted in maintenance of
vegetation cutting along right of way of the mallas

 •     Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11): Excavations are common activities during
slope and shoulders conformations and during malla maintenance operations.

 •     Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20): Malla 130 (to be awarded) is found to traverse an
area with indigenous population.

 •     Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12): Through supervision it was discovered that
some limited resettlement had already taken place or will take place at 6 locations on 2 of
the mallas.

 DNV operates according to an Updated Environmental Management and Evaluation
Manual, (Manual de Evaluación y Gestión Ambiental, MEGA), dated from 1993 and
updated in 2007. The MEGA Manual was reviewed by the Bank at that time and was
considered to be congruent with the Bank’s own environmental policies and for the type
of mallas evaluated and agreed at appraisal of the APL2 whic did not include
environmental sensitive areas.

 The MEGA establishes environmental procedures for road rehabilitation and
construction, including the elaboration by contractors of an Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) that must compliy with the provisions of the Updated Environmental
Evaluation and Management Manual. The EMP is implemented by malla contractors
while DNV regional environmental units (CEGA) provide overall supervision. Also,
bidding documents prepared by DNV includes Environmental clauses which follow
MEGA procedures. With the new 8 mallas and one bridge restoration plan reviewed the
team has provided DNV with additional environmental recommendations in the bidding
documents, especially for the preparation and implementation of the EMP

 Therefore, subject to DNV’s adherence to (i) its own Manual, (ii) additional
recommendation in the bidding documents and (iii) increase environmental supervision
by environmental specialists at the CEGA units, the environmental safeguards policies of
the Bank would be satisfactorily addressed.

 The proposed approach would apply to all subprojects in the operation and DNV will be
applying the existing MEGA manual in the project and additional environmental
recommendations. In those cases where preparation for bidding is well advanced, bidden
or awarded (7 of the 8 reviewed mallas), DNV is already applying the safeguard policies
now being prompted, including incorporating additional Bank’s recommendations
regarding these safeguards.

 Natural Habitats (OP 4.04). Malla 114 (Rio Negro) has not yet been awarded, crosses
Nationel Park Nahual Huapi. Also other mallas which are already under contract might
cross other conservation management categories such as the Malla 432 (Jujuy) under
implementation which crosses the Cultural Protected area Quebrada de Humahuaca
Patrimonio de la Humanidad (Volcán Tres Cruces). DNV environmental assessment of
Mallas within protected areas follows a standard checklist approved by the Bank, a
consultation by the National Environmental Authority and approved intervention,
Environmental clauses linked to the MEGA in the Bidding document and the preparation
of an EMP prepared by the contractor. Also, during implementation, the contractor will
need to hire an environmental professional for the implementation of the EMP. CEGA
and the National Park representatives will conduct periodic supervision.

 An Agreement of cooperation (Convenio Marco) between the National Park Authority
and DNV was signed in 1979 and updated and reviewed in 2006 in order to supervises
and control interventions in protected areas and reduce environmental impact.

 Under the “Convenio Marco?, the APN has reviewed the bidding document and
provided its no-objection to the works of the Malla 11 APN has requested different
measures for contractors to remove exotic tree species and re-vegetation of intervened
areas with native species. In addition, the bidding documents of Malla 114 clearly stated
that contractor will have to follow the National Park environmental management plan and
any other Park regulations or requirement in place for the protected area including if
requested an EIA. The road section of Malla 114 has already held a malla contract
during the first CREMA contracts of DNV with support from the Bank.

 Forestry (OP 4.36). Some malla contracts will include the clearing of vegetation and
reforestation activities in the right of ways. In DNV bidding documents it is identified
that DNV is the owner of all material resulting from bush and tree clearance. DNV either
disposes this material or requests contractors to cut viable species on commercial
dimensions to harvest some of trees species. Many times, DNV will donate the wood to
the Municipality or the community.

 Some malla contracts request contractors to undertake reforestation and afforestation
activities in road sections. The MEGA includes recommendations to follow by
contractors to develop reforestation activities which are particularly important near rivers
and forested areas. These measures include use of native species and nursery and
plantation development. These restoration and afforestation activities are consistent with
Bank Policy to increase or maintain biodiversity and ecosystem functions in the project
area.

 In the Malla 114, the National Park Authority has authorizes the cutting of 56.5 ha along
the road to extract pines trees since this is an exotic species. Also in some areas due to
security reasons and shoulder stabilization works, some protected tree species will be
needed to cut and removed. The cutting of trees within the protected area will be
individually marked by the Park personnel to avoid impact on other protected species.
Also the malla 114 contract includes activities of reforestation in specific sections of the
malla.

 DNV uses in the road signs poles of several endangered native trees species and the
team has advised DNV of the possibility to exchange them for planted species such as
Eucalyptus. DNV is reviewing the proposal.

  Pest Management (OP 4.09). Contractors are permitted to use agro-chemicals in the
maintenance of vegetation along the mallas. DNV already has provisions on the MEGA
to supervise the use of the herbicides and banned those classified as very toxic (Ia, Ib and
II) according to the OMS.

 Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11). CREMA contracts might include excavations
activities related to slope and shoulders conformation, realignment of river banks and
realignment of roads. These excavations in some cases might have the possibility of
disrupting cultural or paleontological artifacts. Some mallas might also cross rich
archaeological-cultural sites such as the Malla 432 (Jujuy, Quebrada de Humahuaca
Patrimonio de la Humanidad, Volcán Tres Cruces) and Malla 403 (Catamarca, La Rioja).

 The bidding document of the Malla 432 (National Route 9) included clauses for the
contractors to avoid damages to cultural resources and chance findings procedures
(“Programa de Protección del Patrimonio Cultural: Control de afectación del patrimonio
arqueológico, paleontológico y de minerales de interés científico, patrimonio escénico
monumental, arquitectónico, urbanístic histórico y antropológico social en general.?).

 Also DNV Regional Office consulted the EMP prepared by the contractor with the
“Unidad de Gestión Quebrada de Humahuaca? in ch of the management of the
“Quebrada de Humahuaca, patrimonio Mundial- Paisaje Cultural?.

 In future Mallas, DNV will follow the same procedure of consultation to the Provincial
National Cultural Resources Authority, implementing recommendations of this Authority
and chance finding procedures in the bidding documents. These procedures are
consistent with Bank policy as well as national and provincial laws and regulations
pertaining to physical cultural resources. The MEGA manual describe chance findings
procedures for contractor to reduce impact on cultural resources. (Annex VI). The team
has advised DNV to increase supervision of contractors across the provinces to comply
with these procedures

 Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10). When revising the bid documents received for launching
Malla 130 in the Province of Neuquén, it was established that the road passes through an
area where an indigenous population is present. For this case DNV is preparing an
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP), and a final version is expected in January, 2012.
Consultation with the communities of indigenous peoples affected was carried out the
final week of November 2011. These consultations informed an Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework (IPPF) which has been prepared to address possible future cases
where indigenous peoples are affected.

 Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). At the time of appraisal, resettlement was not
anticipated, and therefore OP 4.12 was not triggered. The Project Appraisal Document
(PAD No 39716-AR dated May 31, 2007) specifically established that “impacts of road
rehabilitation and maintenance operations on the local population is expected to be
minimal, as most of the network under CREMA operations affect well established inter-
urban highways passing through sparsely populated areas. The project entails
rehabilitation works on the road network and construction works on bridges, both to be
carried out only within the existing right-of-way where no resettlements are expected.
Therefore the Involuntary Resettlement safeguard policy will not be triggered?.
 During supervision it was found that involuntary resettlement indeed occurred in 4 cases
and is likely to occur in 2 additional cases (see Table 2).

 Table 2: Summary of Involuntary Resettlement Cases

 Case #     Project Location          Parties Physically Displaced or Affected by Right
of Way (RoW) Acquisition

 Past cases:
 1     Malla 107A Province of Chubut Section S24 Two legal entities (a municipality
and YPF, an oil company).
 2     Malla 107B Province of Chubut Section 26 (bridge to access neighborhood
Rodríguez Peña)        YPF
 3     Malla 434 Province of Jujuy RN-34 Bridge over River San Lorenzo(Access to P.
Calilegua)     Sugar company
 4     Malla 434 Province of Jujuy Access to neighborhood Santa Rosa Informal
businesses (a restaurant and a storage facility)
 Future cases:
 5     Malla 434Province of Jujuy Access to Embarcación Informal occupants of the
Right of Way.
 6     Malla 434Province of Jujuy RN-34 Access to Aguaray Restaurant


 At the request of the Bank, DNV has documented all cases of RoW acquisition or
displacement of occupants of the RoW and has prepared a Remedial Action Plan to
ensure compliance with OP 4.12. This plan includes all measures that are necessary to
complete the land acquisition process and to compensate affected owners. In addition,
DNV has prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) for addressing future
resettlement cases. The RPF has been reviewed by the Bank and is found to be
acceptable; it describes the procedures that will be followed to prepare resettlement plans.
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
N/A

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
N/A

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
Please see section II-A-1. The DNV has an Environmental and Social Unit (ESU) that
has been dealing with safeguard policy issues during the life of the existing project.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Please see section II-A-1.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                 04/18/2007
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                             04/27/2007
  Date of submission to InfoShop                              04/27/2007
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                 12/15/2011
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                             12/15/2011
  Date of submission to InfoShop                              12/15/2011
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                 12/15/2011
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                             12/15/2011
  Date of submission to InfoShop                              12/15/2011
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                                 N/A
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                             N/A
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                              N/A
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?                 No
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)             N/A
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the             Yes
credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of          No
critical natural habitats?
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other     N/A
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures
acceptable to the Bank?
OP 4.09 - Pest Management
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?                        Yes
Is a separate PMP required?                                                       No
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or      No
SM? Are PMP requirements included in project design? If yes, does the
project team include a Pest Management Specialist?
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property?               Yes
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential             N/A
adverse impacts on cultural property?
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as                     Yes
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector           Yes
Manager review the plan?
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed      N/A
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process                 Yes
framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector           Yes
Manager review the plan?
OP/BP 4.36 - Forests
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints   N/A
been carried out?
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these           Yes
  constraints?
  Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include     No
  provisions for certification system?
  The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
  Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's       Yes
  Infoshop?
  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a       Yes
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All Safeguard Policies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities    Yes
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the           No
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the             Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                             Name                          Date
Task Team Leader:                   Mr Gylfi Palsson                             12/15/2011
Environmental Specialist:           Ms Ruth Tiffer-Sotomayor                     12/15/2011
Social Development Specialist       Ms Lilian Pedersen                           12/15/2011
Additional Environmental and/or     Mr Jose Vicente Zevallos                     12/15/2011
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:    Mr Glenn S. Morgan                           12/16/2011
  Comments:
Sector Manager:                     Mr Aurelio Menendez                          12/16/2011
  Comments:
