                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR3032




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-74730)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 400 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                        GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA

                                         FOR A

            NATIONAL HIGHWAY ASSET MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                          PHASE II (APL2)



                                  March 28, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                            CURRENCY QUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective: December 31, 2013)

                          Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                              AR$ 1.00 = US$ 0.201
                              US$ 1.00 = AR$ 4.978

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 – December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      Adaptable Program Lending
BMS      Bridge Management System
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CREMA    Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract (Contrato de Recuperación y Mantenimiento)
DNV      National Highways Directorate (Dirección Nacional de Vialidad)
DPV      Provincial Roads Directorate (Dirección Provincial de Vialidad)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoA      Government of Argentina
HDM      Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IERR     Internal Economic Rate of Return
IRI      International Roughness Index
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
Km       Kilometers
MOEP     Ministry of Economy and Production (Ministerio de Economía y de la Producción)
NPV      Net Present Value
OCCOVI   Concession Regulating Entity (Organo de Control de las Concesiones)
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordinating Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMS      Pavement Management System
SIL      Standard Investment Loan
SME      Small and Medium size Enterprise




                                          ii
      Vice President:   Hasan A. Tuluy
    Country Director:   Sabine Hader
     Sector Manager:    Aurelio Menendez
Project Team Leader:    Gylfi Palsson
   ICR Team Leader:     Gylfi Palsson



                iii
                                                   ARGENTINA

            National Highways Asset Management Program Phase II (APL2)



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 16
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 18
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 20
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 22
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 23
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 24
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  MAP




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                           AR APL2 National
Country:                Argentina                Project Name:
                                                                           Highway Asset Mgt
Project ID:             P095569                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-74730
ICR Date:               03/28/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           ARGENTINE
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:
                                                                           REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 400.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 400.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 400.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Direccion Nacional de Vialidad (DNV)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/12/2007      Effectiveness:             11/24/2008       11/24/2008
Appraisal:            05/17/2007      Restructuring(s):                           02/07/2012
Approval:             06/28/2007      Mid-term Review:           06/01/2011       06/17/2011
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2011       09/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                                2                      2
General public administration sector                                    4                      4
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                               94                  94


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                14                  14
Environmental policies and institutions                                14                  14
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 29                  29
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                 14                  14
Rural services and infrastructure                                      29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                        Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Sabine Hader                          Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Aurelio Menendez                      Jose Luis Irigoyen
Project Team Leader:       Gylfi Palsson                         Maria Marcela Silva
ICR Team Leader:           Gylfi Palsson
ICR Primary Author:        Gerard L. Liautaud


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to further preserve the Non-Concessioned National
Road Network, through the expansion of CREMA Contracts for said network; and (b) to
further strengthen DNVs road sector management capacity.


                                                vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No formal revision of the original Project Development Objectives was made during
project implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years
                Implementation of a comprehensive results- oriented road maintenance program
Indicator 1 : balancing efficiency, equity and regional development considerations, through
                the expansion of CREMA system.
                                         9,608 km (3290                     9,045 km (3327
Value
                                         Bank                               Bank
quantitative or 0
                                         financed/6318                      financed/5718Treas
Qualitative)
                                         Treasury financed)                 ury financed)
Date achieved 06/28/2007                 06/15/2012                         09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The project achieved 94% of appraisal targets.
achievement)
                Development of in-house capacity for strategic road asset management to support
Indicator 2 :
                implementation of CREMA program with modern results oriented approach.
                                                                            (i) training only
                                                                            achieved - use of
                                                                            broader HR base
                                                                            not achieved;
                                         (i) HR base; (ii)
Value                                                                       (ii) network surveys
                                         network and user
quantitative or Not developed                                               systematichally
                                         surveys; and (iii)
Qualitative)                                                                used achieved -
                                         HDM4 use.
                                                                            user surveys
                                                                            partially achieved;
                                                                            (iii) systematic use
                                                                            of HDM4 achieved
Date achieved 06/28/2007                 06/15/2012                         09/30/2013
Comments        Technical aspects achieved (network surveys and use of HDM4), while
(incl. %        complementary management tools (HR base and user surveys) only partially
achievement) achieved.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                              Revised
                                             approval                         Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Average International Roughness Indicator (IRI)
Value
(quantitative   3.8                       less than 3.8                     3.08
or Qualitative)

                                              vii
Date achieved     06/28/2007                 06/30/2012                         09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target was significantly exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     13 bridges Rehabilitated/Reconstructed
Value
(quantitative     0                          13                 8               7 (partially)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/28/2007                 06/26/2010         02/07/2012      09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Partially achieved. Only 7 could be financed and were being executed at closing.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Implementation of 2 pilot road safety interventions
Value                                                                           1 (designed only
(quantitative     0                          2                  1               and about to be
or Qualitative)                                                                 tendered)
Date achieved     06/28/2007                 06/28/2012         02/07/2012      09/30/2013
Comments
                  Partially achieved. Vialidad was about to tender this single intervention by
(incl. %
                  closing of the project, and under own financing.
achievement)
                  At least four technical schools fully operational with more than 400 students
Indicator 4 :
                  promoted each year.
Value
(quantitative     0                          4                                  4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/28/2012                 06/28/2012                         09/30/2013
Comments
                  Fully achieved. Four technical schools fully operational with more than 400
(incl. %
                  students promoted each year.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     09/11/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     03/20/2008           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     06/20/2008           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      0.00
  4     10/16/2008           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      0.00
  5     05/06/2009           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     27.09
  6     12/07/2009           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              63.00
  7     06/28/2010           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              92.53
  8     01/04/2011           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             155.89
  9     08/09/2011           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             208.31
 10     03/29/2012           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             269.38
 11     10/23/2012           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             315.23
 12     07/01/2013       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory             370.54

                                                  viii
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Triggering of 6 new safeguards
 02/07/2012       N       S     MS          249.88   - reduction in scope of road
                                                     safety and bridges components.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                        ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At project appraisal in April-June 2007, the National Road network had a total length of
38,313 km, of which 33,235 km was paved and 5,078 km unpaved. After years of fiscal
crisis and poor management, the government took the decision in 1991 to concession
nearly 9,000 km of the paved network with the highest volumes of traffic and signed 18
concession contracts with the private sector, for a period of 12 years. In parallel and
thanks to loans from the World Bank the Government started pioneering performance
based contracts (including the CREMA in 1997) with the private sector on over nearly
15,000 km of the non-concessioned paved network that helped improve the condition of
the network. In 2007, the percentage of non-concessioned roads in good condition, i.e.,
with International Roughness Index (IRI) < 4, was about 89 percent while the percentage
of maintenance backlog was about 11 percent. The proportion of the non-concessioned
network (about 22,000 km) in bad condition was only in the order of 2 percent, with an
average IRI of about 3.3. Traffic volumes averaged some 1,000 to 1,500 vehicles per day.
It was important at the time to prevent further deterioration of the network and to ensure
that it remained in a steady-state condition in the future.

Fortunately, the effects of the 2001-2002 economic crises proved less severe than
anticipated. Indeed, Argentina’s rate of recovery was impressive between 2003 and 2007
with average real annual growth rates ranging from 8.8 percent to 9.2 percent of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). The strong growth performance was supported by a dynamic
expansion of private investment, internal consumption and exports. Strong export growth
fueled by favorable commodity prices and improved fiscal performance (due to increased
tax collection) generated persistent primary fiscal surpluses (between 2.7 and 5.3 percent
of GDP), which, in turn, increased reserve accumulation from 19.3 $ billion in 2004 to
109.6 $ billion in 2007.

Within that context of favorable economic growth, the Government continued to adopt
the strategy of promoting increased infrastructure investment that already started in 2004.
The focus on infrastructure was supported by solid evidence showing that: (i)
infrastructure is an important determinant of economic growth; (ii) inequality declines
with higher level of infrastructure quality and quantity and, (iii) proper access to
infrastructure facilitates development of small and medium size enterprises (SMEs)
which plays a critical role in job creation. Following the 2001-2002 crisis, infrastructure
investment grew every year, reaching levels of 4.7 percent of GDP in 2006. Furthermore,
the investment budget allocated to the National Road Authority (Direccion Nacional de
Vialidad - DNV) for the upkeep and improvement of the national road system increased
from an average of US$ 500 million/year during the period 1995-2001 to US$ 1,400
million in 2006 and to US$ 1,891million in 2007 (after a decline in budget allocation of
US$ 184 - 324 million in 2002 and 2003). This increasing trend continued over the period
2008-2012, currently reaching nearly US$ 3.3 billion/year (at exchange rates at closing of
project).



                                            1
Project objectives remained the same as in 2004 at the time of APL1, which main
priorities included: (i) addressing the structural weaknesses that hinder transport
efficiency and economic competitiveness, and (ii) improving the institutional framework
and the governance of a sector that concentrates nearly 80 percent of total freight volume
movements in the country and is the dominant mode of transport.

Over the years, the World Bank has played a key role in the road sector in Argentina,
enabling reduction in the rehabilitation and maintenance backlog on both the national and
provincial networks, while supporting institutional transformation processes to improve
road management and promote rationalization of road expenditures in the country. In
particular, at the national level, through Loans 3611-AR, 4295-AR and 7242-AR,
covering the period 1991-2007, the Bank assisted DNV in the initiative to develop and
consolidate the implementation of performance-based contracts (CREMA) for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of the national paved non-concessioned road network
(about 22,000 km). At the provincial level, since 1995, and through on-lending operations
to participating provinces through Loans 4093-AR and 7301-AR, the Bank supported
also the development of more efficient provincial road programs, gradually transferring
maintenance execution to private contractors or to local road users and consortia, while
strengthening the environmental and technical management capabilities of the Direccion
Provincial de Vialidad (DPVs). More recently the Bank supported the introduction of the
use of CREMA contracts in provinces such as Córdoba, Santa Fe and Corrientes.

Bank’s involvement in this project intended to further improve the results achieved so far
in the sector, but most importantly, would enable to continue developing the agenda
designed during the APL1 phase.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
During the appraisal of the APL2 in 2007, the overall purpose of the program remained
the same as the one adopted during the appraisal of the APL1 in 2004, namely:

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to further preserve the Non-Concessioned National
Road Network, through the expansion of CREMA Contracts for said network; and (b) to
further strengthen DNVs road sector management capacity.

Achievement of the first objective would primarily be confirmed by the number of
kilometers of paved non-concessioned network under the CREMA system and, as a result
of such interventions, by the improvement generated in the riding quality of the network
(hence a reduction in Road Users Costs).

Other key indicators for the achievement of the Project Development Objectives are
detailed below (Table 2 – note that not all the indicators are part of results framework).
They refer to the overall program as defined in 2004 and by deduction of what was
achieved at the closing date of the first phase, (August 31, 2010), they define what was
left to be implemented during the second phase of the program (APL2).




                                            2
                          Table 2.        Project Key indicators
1.Project component   Key Indicators APL1           Achieved under APL1     To be achieved under APL2
                      +APL2                         (9/31/10)
1.Road                17,131 km of which 9,531      6,241 km (Bank) +       3,290 km Bank-financed; and
Rehabilitation &      km Bank and 7,600 km          1,282 (local funds)=    6,318 km local funds. (total
Maintenance           Treasury                      7,523 km                =9,628 km)
CREMA
                      Avg. IRI 2007-2010: <=3.5     Avg. IRI = 3.12         Avg. IRI<=3.5
2. Bridge             • Design and implement a      • BMS design             • Complete BMS
Restoration              Bridge Management              started
                         system (BMS);
                      • Rehabilitate 20 priority    •   5 Bridges            •   13 bridges to be restored
                         bridges.                       rehabilitated            (reduced to 8 at
                                                                                 restructuring)
3. Road Safety        •   Design & Implement 4      •    Only 1 corridor    Design 3 more & Execute 2
Enhancement               pilot Safety Corridors;       designed            corridors (reduced to
                                                                            execution of 1 corridor at
                                                                            restructuring)
                      •   Restore 15 black spots;   •   3 Black spots
                                                        restored             •   Restore 15 black spots
                                                                                 (reduced to 7 at
                                                                                 restructuring)
                      •   Execute 310 km of         •   Fully executed
                          Horizontal Marking                                 •   No further action

4. Institutional      •   Develop and execute a     •   Plan and Training   •    Plan to be executed
Renewal                   Short and Long run            programs
                          Human Resources Plan          designed but not
                                                        executed
                      •   Adopt the                 •   Study completed,    •    To be discussed and
                          recommendations of a          but not discussed        implemented
                          Road Sector Financing         nor implemented
                          Study
                      •   Code of Ethics for DNV    •   Code of Ethics      •    No further action
                          developed                     completed
                      •   Performance indicators    •   In progress         •    To be completed
                          for DNV developed
                      •   Road Users Satisfaction   •   Survey on Users     •    To be completed
                          Survey & Index                satisfaction not
                          developed                     carried out
                      •   Strengthen Division of    •   In progress         •    To be completed
                          Environment
                      •   Modernize Technology      •   In progress         •    To be completed
                          within DNV
                      •   Streamline DNV            •   Study in progress   •    To be completed
                          processes
                      •   Support 4 Road            •   In progress         •    To be completed
                          Technicians Schools.


                                               3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
No formal revision of the original Project Development Objectives was made during
project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The project was expected to benefit primarily the people in rural and low-income areas in
the corridors of influence of the road works through: (i) the reduction of time and travel
costs; (ii) new employment opportunities generated by the CREMA program that requires
labor for carrying out the works and for the production of road materials; (iii) increased
competitiveness and development of Small and Medium-size Enterprises, and (iv)
improved access to basic services. The corridors passed through all but two of
Argentina’s Provinces.

Also, one of the objectives of the APL program in 2004 was to ensure that 40 percent of
the CREMA coverage would be in the poorest regions of the Country. At the closing
date of the APL1 it was established that the CREMA project had met that target and that
there was no need for the APL2 to complete the achievement. Notwithstanding, CREMA
during these two APL series was implemented in all but two of Argentina’s Provinces.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project original components were the following:

   • Component 1: Rehabilitation and Maintenance (Estimated cost US$1,181
     million of which US$360 million would be financed by the Bank Loan) for the
     completion of CREMA contracts initiated under the APL1, launching additional
     CREMAs to be financed with Bank funds as well as CREMAs to be financed with
     local funds. The target was to have an International Roughness Index (IRI) less
     than or equal to 3.5.
     Continuing with the CREMA as a sustainable system was a key factor in the
     design of the project. Indeed, the CREMA concept has been fully integrated to
     the Government modalities of network management since 1995 and has given
     spectacular results. Since then, that system of network management represented
     nearly a third of all modalities used by DNV to maintain the 30,000 km of the
     national paved network and became as important as the concession program.
   • Component 2: Bridge Restoration (Estimated cost US$ 22.8 million of which
     US$ 16 million would be financed by the Bank Loan) for the execution of
     rehabilitation works on 20 bridges that had been prioritized by DNV;
   • Component 3- Road Safety (Estimated cost US$ 26 million of which US$ 19
     million would be financed by the Bank Loan) for the implementation and
     measurement of results of the pilot road safety initiative, as well as the execution
     of additional road safety improvements in critical spots of the network. The target
     at the end of the project implementation was to have four road safety
     interventions completed and covering a total length of 630 km.
   • Component 4: Institutional Renewal and Governance (Estimated cost US$ 5.2
     million of which US$ 5 million would be financed by the Bank Loan) for the


                                            4
       completion of DNV’s institutional renewal action plan. These activities would
       complement those under implementation through the first phase of the APL.

1.6 Revised Components
No formal revisions were made to the original components during project execution.

1.7 Other significant changes
Other significant changes made during project implementation include the following:
(a) The closing date of the project was extended twice during project implementation
bringing the original date of December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2013 and subsequently to
September 30, 2013; (b) the project was first restructured in February 2012 in order to
accommodate the need to introduce in the Loan Agreement specific clauses on safeguard
policies that were not considered applicable in the original documents; (c) partly because
of the high inflation in the Argentine economy since 2003 the scope of works for the
bridge and road safety sub-components was reduced in order to match available funding
allocations – this however was also a reflection of slow implementation pace of these
components by DNV; and (d) some minor reallocations of funds among Categories of the
Loan were deemed necessary and executed, through a second restructuration of the
project in June 2013.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
During project preparation, key lessons learnt from the execution of the first phase of the
program were incorporated in the design of the APL2, including: (i) the need to ensure
that the designs for CREMA projects have balanced rehabilitation and maintenance
standards commensurate to surface and traffic characteristics of the network, avoiding
unnecessary conservative solutions that would deviate from the optimum strategy and
jeopardize the cost efficiency of the system and (ii) continue with the policy of
independent technical audits for the monitoring of contractors and supervision of
performance during execution of the CREMA program. Likewise, risks that were
identified were adequately taken into account, with well-defined mitigating measures, for
instance as it related to procurement and financial management risks. Quality at entry
was generally good, except, in retrospect, in the design of the Institutional Component in
which too many assignments were programmed, some of which finally proved to be too
sensitive to execute, unpalatable to the Road Agency or too time-consuming and difficult
to implement, leading to their cancellation, by the Road Agency, towards the end of the
program, as discussed in section 3.2.2.

2.2 Implementation
During implementation, the following main factors affected project’s execution schedule
and outcomes, namely:
   •      The high inflation that plagued the overall economy of the country since 2003.
          In the road sector, cumulative inflation reached about 100 percent over the
          period 2006-2011 and exceeded was estimated at project preparation. Because


                                            5
           of that, the cost of road works in the country (including the CREMAs)
           generally increased by a factor of nearly 2 during project implementation.
   •       While inflation contributed to reduction in scope of bridges and road safety
           activities, inaction by DNV on those components resulted in reduction in
           rehabilitation of the 13 bridges originally identified as in critical condition to a
           situation where only 7 were in the process of restoration by the revised closing
           date. Likewise, only 6 black spots instead of 15 were in the process of
           bidding (but not yet executed) while barely one pilot safety corridors had
           bidding documents ready (but not yet tendered), instead of the 2 originally
           planned to be executed;
   •       The request by the Government in 2007-2008 for Bank assistance to
           oversee and check the standards and designs used in counterpart-
           financed CREMA contracts, beyond those financed by the Bank. That
           request was made in order to avoid discrepancies with the Bank-financed
           contracts, and was a response to a letter from the Bank to the Government
           indicating that locally financed programs were using over dimensioned and
           expensive designs that were causing contract values to explode. In reaction to
           that letter, DNV was requested by the Ministry of Infrastructure to submit all
           locally financed projects, before bidding, for Bank’s reviews and comments.
           Complying with that request until the closing of the project helped contain
           contracts values and efficiency of design, even if it generated some delay in
           the launching the bidding processes;
   •       The discovery, late during project execution, on a few CREMA contracts, of
           problems related to safeguards policies (both environmental and social)
           that were unsuspected and unaccounted for during appraisal, leading to
           activation of several new safeguard policies through an Amendment to the
           Loan Agreement (in August 2012); and,
   •       As mentioned earlier, the number of assignments included in the
           Institutional Component, that finally proved to be overwhelming or
           unpalatable for the executing Agency, leading to their cancellation by the
           Agency.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
As provided for in the appraisal document, implementation of the project was monitored
through a series of requirements and mechanisms that proved sufficient, including:
regular progress reports furnished by the Project’s Coordinating Unit (PCU), annual
management reports provided by the Road Agency, annual reports on the results of the
national road network surveys, showing the evolution of traffic and the riding quality
(Roughness) on the road system. In parallel, the Bank carried out twice a year regular
supervision missions, including site visits, and organized videoconferences as needed.
Also, the Bank continued to finance independent technical audits on selected CREMA
contracts (about 24), both Bank-financed and counterpart-financed. Finally, and as
requested by the Government, the Bank supervision team regularly carried out technical
and cost reviews (and in the final years also safeguard reviews) of all CREMA projects to
be funded with both bank and local resources, to ensure efficiency in resources utilization


                                              6
and consistency with Bank-funded contracts. By and large, monitoring and evaluation of
the project during implementation was satisfactory.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
At appraisal, negative impacts of road rehabilitation and maintenance operations on the
local populations were expected to be minimal, as most of the works under CREMA
operations would only affect well-established inter-urban highways passing through
sparsely populated areas. Also, since rehabilitation works and interventions on bridges or
critical safety spots were expected to be carried out within existing right-of-ways where
no resettlements were expected, the Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard Policies were
not activated. During the execution of the APL1 project, the policy was not triggered,
explaining the decision taken while preparing the second phase of the Project.

Nevertheless, towards the end of the execution period of the APL2 (in 2011-2012), a few
CREMA Contracts (or Mallas) began to show impacts partly due to construction of
round-abouts for road safety purposes which required realignments that required taking
of land and because of temporary dislocation of settlement within the right-away. The
impacts were minor, however, this and a comprehensive review of potential safeguard
issues in the then remaining construction activities under the project prompted the Bank
to activate six safeguards policies, namely: The Natural Habitats (O.P 4.04), Forest (OP
4.36), Pest Management (OP 4.09) Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11), Indigenous
People (OP 4.20) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.10).

It took a while for DNV to grasp, internalize and accept the unexpected requirements
from the Bank. However, after some delay, the needed restructuring of the project and an
Amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed in August 2012, with the corresponding
documentation duly posted on the web page of DNV. Although this issue caused some
frustration among DNV’s staff and disruptions in the implementation of the project, they
potentially, on the other hand, have the benefit of helping prepare for the future, as the
basic documents that are generally needed (such as a Resettlement/Remedial Action
Plans, a Framework for Planning and Resolving Issues with Indigenous People) have
now already been elaborated during this project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
A matter of concern is the current situation regarding follow-on support to sustain what
has been accomplished in the past and particularly through the execution of the
Adaptable Program Loan, since 2004. Over the final years of the operation, there was a
noticeable decline in the enthusiasm and pace at which DNV was preparing CREMA
projects for Bank’s no-objections and for launching bidding processes. The practice of
extending the execution period of the routine maintenance component on existing
CREMA contracts – which was exceptionally adopted for lack of budget allocations after
execution of the first CREMA program (1997-2002) - became more frequent, with the
risk it entails of not being sufficient to prevent an undesirable deterioration of the
network. The Bank’s supervision team repeatedly attempted to engage DNV in
discussion for clarification and justification of that practice, including discussions on a
potential follow-up operation. Additionally, DNV specific circumstances have evolved
through the past years: (i) financing from the Bank may no longer be needed, since
                                            7
DNV’s allocations have exploded over the last five years, currently reaching nearly
US$ 3.4 billion/year; (ii) the difficulties that have been experienced in reaching an
agreement on a revised set of bidding documents for the CREMA; and (iii) what was
perceived as a sudden introduction and rigid application by the Bank, late during project
implementation, of safeguard policies that were not previously considered necessary in
the past, including during the first CREMA program that started in Argentina in 1997.
That situation generated frustration within DNV’s management teams, as well as
difficulties and delays in complying with those unexpected requirements and in obtaining
no-objections to proceed or to bid.

Notwithstanding, it is clear that Bank engagement on DNV’s CREMA program has led to
better efficiency in uses of all resources dedicated to the program. Technically, DNV is
committed to pursuing CREMA on the non-concessioned part of the primary road
network and there is an understanding in the Ministry of Economy of the economic
benefits of the approach, but in the end sustainability of DNVs CREMA program will
depend on sufficiency of government budget allocations.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
At appraisal, the overall and specific objectives of this project were consistent with the
IBRD-IFC 2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed at the Board on May 4,
2006, under which improvement of infrastructure assets was identified as a fundamental
pillar of sustained economic growth, as well as being more equitable to the poor. More
than one third of lending operations proposed in the 2006 CAS was for infrastructure,
with the bulk of these in the transport sector. The PDO remained also highly relevant
throughout project implementation including with the objectives of the latest CAS
discussed at the Board on May 6, 2009 that covered the period 2010-2012 and has three
main pillars, namely: (i) sustained economic growth with equity; (ii) social inclusion, and
(iii) improved governance.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
3.2.1 First Specific Objective: ..(a) to further preserve the Non-Concessioned
National Road Network, through the expansion of CREMA Contracts for said network.
Output Indicator and Expected Results for the CREMA.
The expected output at the end of the APL2 was to expand the CREMA system over an
additional 9,608 km of which 3,290 km (about 20 contracts) would be financed by the
Bank and 6,318 km (about 42 contracts) would be funded by the Treasury. At the revised
closing date of the project, (September 30, 2013), 3,327 km (20 contracts) had been
contracted with Bank financing, and 5,718 km (37 contracts) had been let with local
funds, totaling 9,045 km, i.e., 94 percent of appraisal target.

Improvement in the riding quality of the network: An expected outcome of the project
was that the rehabilitation and maintenance works carried out under the APL2 additional
CREMA coverage would help prevent further deterioration of the non-concessioned
paved network, as measured by the International Roughness Index (IRI). The target was
                                            8
to keep the average IRI below 3.5 during project implementation. As shown in Table 3
below, that target was consistently achieved (3.1 < IRI < 3.3), with a maintenance
backlog that was reduced from 9.1 percent in 2006 to about 5 percent in 2012, and a
proportion of roads in poor/bad condition that dropped from 1.8 percent to about one
percent for the same period.

  Table 3. Evolution of the riding quality on the non-concessioned paved network*
Indicator                 2006      2007        2008        2009        2010       2011        2012
% in good                 90.9      97.8         97.7        94.5       96.2       96.1          95
condition, IRI<4
% Maintenance               9.1       2.2         2.3         5.5        3.8         3.9           5
backlog, IRI >4
% in poor                   1.8         0            0        0.5        0.1         1.1           1
condition, IRI >5
Average IRI               3.27      3.29        3.28        3.12        3.28        3.09        3.08
* The IRI is based on results of annual technical surveys of the non-concessioned paved national road
network

Expected output and Results achieved for the Bridge and Safety Components.
As was said earlier, and partly because of the inflation that considerably increased by a
factor of about 2 the cost of road works in the country, and also because of DNV’s lack
of interest and prioritization, the physical targets set out at appraisal for those two sub-
components could not be achieved, as the assigned budget allocations were insufficient.
Of the 13 bridges target aimed at appraisal, only 7 could be financed and are being
executed. Likewise, instead of executing 4 pilot safety corridors, only one was about to
be tendered at closing. Similarly, of the 31 black spots initially identified (but later
reduced to 15 interventions), only 3 were executed.

3.2.2 Second Specific Objective: …(b) to further strengthen DNVs road sector
management capacity.
At the end of the first phase (APL1) of the project, only a limited number of activities
included in the DNV renewal program had been executed, including: the elaboration of a
Code of Ethics for DNV and the carrying out of the short term Human Resource Study,
implemented by the Agency. The second phase APL2 helped complete a number of
actions initiated in phase 1. The status, at closing, of those assignments was as follows:
    • The Human Resource Plan only achieved the design of short and long-term
        training part of DNV personnel,
    • The Road Sector Financing Study was executed by an individual Consultant,
    • The streamlining study of DNV’s administrative processes was also theoretically
        well advanced,
    • The study on Territorial Development was completed
    • The Environmental Manual was updated;
    • A state-of-the-art axle load control, with the assistance of the Road Authority of
        Chile, was also well advanced
    • The Road Users Satisfaction Survey although lagging behind was well advanced,



                                                 9
    •   The Technical Modernization project for DNV was partly achieved, pending the
        realization of a cutting edge Weigh-in-Motion System (WIM) for axle load
        control;
    •   In the end, only the Bridge Management System and the support to road
        technicians Schools were substantially achieved, while some progress was also
        accomplished in the structure and content of the annual DNV management reports,
        with the incorporation of outcome performance indicators such as the network
        riding quality.

By and large, out of the assignments programmed for that component, only three were
executed with success, while another three were partially achieved with the remaining
simply cancelled, due to a lack of interest from DNV. However, worthy of consideration
as these were consulted extensively with the Bank are other institutional achievements
made with the successful twinning arrangements celebrated with the U.S. Federal
Highway Administration in the area of winter maintenance, and with the Chilean Road
Authorities in the area of axle load control.

3.3 Efficiency
At appraisal, a revised economic evaluation using the HDM model was carried out for the
APL2 project and showed that the proposed investment would yield a positive Net
Present Value (NPV) in the order of US$ 771 million (in economic terms of roads
rehabilitated, (i.e., US$ 245,000/km, in financial terms) with an Internal Economic Rate
of Return (IERR) of 47 percent. At closing, an ex-post evaluation using actual costs,
with revised traffic and pavement conditions as well as updated vehicle operating costs
showed that despite the increase in the cost of road-works, the actual investments
continue to yield high returns, with a NPV of US$ 1,350 million (about US$ 214,000/km
in financial terms) for about 9,000 km of roads rehabilitated and an Internal Economic
Rate of Return of 41 percent (see Annex 3).

In addition, the cost efficiency and cost effectiveness of the CREMAs when compared to
conventional unit price contracts was demonstrated by a specific empirical study 1 in 2010
that confirmed that the system is both efficient and effective: The cost effectiveness was
estimated to be in the order of 24 percent due to the facts that: (i) no cost overruns
resulting from variation orders is possible under the CREMAs; (ii) the CREMA
incorporates for the same lump price a number of additional features that are not
contemplated in unit price contracts (or paid separately), such as the carrying out of the
detailed engineering design by the Contractor with a comprehensive auto-quality control
of the works, the implementation of a traffic and axle-load monitoring system during the
entire contract period.



1
 The World Bank: Transport Paper 36, September 2011 “Performance-Based Road Contracts (CREMA).
A Review of Fifteen Years’ Experience. 1996-2010” by M. Marcela Silva and Gerard Liautaud




                                             10
That empirical study was further deepened using the HDM Model that showed that as the
CREMAs addresses the life cycle costs and benefits over a 20-years horizon the system is
both efficient and effective.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
The overall outcome of the project is rated: Moderately Satisfactory
Indeed, even though the Institutional Component fell short of fully achieving its targets,
the Project Development Objectives remained highly relevant throughout project
implementation, to both the Government global priorities and to the latest Country
Assistance Strategy, as formulated in 2009 by the Bank. The targets set out for the major
CREMA component of the project were almost fully achieved and resulted in a sustained
improvement in the riding quality of the non-concessioned paved network. Also, the
economic returns to be expected from the actual investments made continued to be
acceptable, as shown above.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impact and Social Development.
It was expected at the time of appraisal, that overall a minimum of forty percent of
investments made under the CREMA component would be located in the poorest
provinces of the country. At the end of the APL1, already forty-two percent of
investments made were in the poorest provinces, thus slightly exceeding the original
target. With the additional contracts financed under the second phase of the program, the
CREMA benefits a much greater number of provinces with more than fifty percent of the
total investment injected into the economy of the poorest ones. No doubt that this will
reduce poverty and inequalities as well as foster economic growth in those regions, while
helping develop small and medium size enterprises, and playing a critical role in job
creation.

(b) Institutional Changes/Strengthening
Even though the full spectrum of activities and initiatives aimed at reinforcing and
revitalizing DNV’s role in the road sector was not achieved, the progress brought about
during the APL2 in completing some of the achievements of the first phase of the
program and in implementing new activities, was certainly positive. The Institution grew
stronger, particularly in the areas of technological capacity, bridge management system
and winter maintenance practices while having set a solid foundation for road safety
management and substantially increasing the capacity of its Environmental and Social
Division. Also, a valuable assistance was provided to four Schools of Engineering in an
area that was most critical, i.e., the lack of competent road Technicians to assist DNV and
the Contracting Industry in the execution of the vast program of road construction and
rehabilitation that could be contemplated by the Government in the near future. Finally,
DNV has improved considerably its approach to more efficient pavement rehabilitation
and maintenance standards as well as to costs and quantities evaluations, all of which has
already led to bids proposals, during the last few years, much closer to official estimates
(less than 20 percent).




                                              11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Six critical risks were identified at appraisal as susceptible to have a negative effect on
project implementation and outcome, namely: (i) lack of counterpart funds to execute the
CREMA program, (ii) DNV’s failure to adequately manage the concession program, (iii)
delays in project execution due to bidder’s behavior (collusive practices was strongly
suspected in 2004), (iv) weak financial management of the project during execution; (v)
lack of support and ownership from DNV for carrying out the renewal process, and (vi)
failure to implement the large-scale road safety pilot initiative.

Of those six critical risks, and as developed earlier, only the last two did materialize.
Otherwise, the Government ensured that no shortage of local funds would occur to the
CREMA projects; allocating ample budget resources to DNV (4 to 6 times historic
allocations) while providing additional Treasury funds to enable to carry out an
impressive CREMA program. DNV is currently in charge of and managing fairly well
the concession program that covers nearly 9,000 km of high-traffic national roads.
Limited delay occurred during the implementation period of the project due to bidding
processes, essentially because of DNV’s enhanced performance in project costs estimates
and a revised policy of bidding (small number of bid packages at a time). Although no
additional risk became apparent during project execution, risk of reduced budget
allocations to DNV due to economic circumstances remains a consideration.

On balance, it is deemed that risk to development outcome is Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

1.1     Bank Performance
(a)     Bank performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Lessons learnt and perceived risks identified during the first phase of the program were
duly considered when designing the overall scope of the second phase of the program.
For example, for the CREMA contracts that were selected to be tendered and executed
during the first year of the APL2, an extensive and detailed analytical work was carried
out during appraisal, both by DNV and by the Bank team to ensure that the design of
those contracts was technically and economically sound and that the bidding documents
and processes, from a procurement point of view, were appropriate. However, regrettably,
as mentioned earlier, the Bank expectations about the ability and willingness of DNV to
execute the complex institutional component aiming at reforming the Agency - in areas
that are very sensitive or outside the control of the Agency (such as staff careers policy,
users satisfaction of DNV’s performance, and financing modalities recommended for the
road sector) – did not fully materialize.

While good technical preparation is evident, the failure to ensure sufficient client buy-in
for a challenging Institutional Component, the quality of Bank performance at entry is
rated: Moderately Satisfactory.




                                            12
(b) Quality of Supervision.
During the execution of the project, Bank’s performance is rated as Satisfactory, for the
following reasons:
     a) Good due diligence was ensured with formal supervision missions visiting
        Argentina systematically, twice a year, and regularly carried out site visits to
        check the quality of works performed by the Contractors and DNV supervision
        teams;
     b) The Bank initiated about 24 valuable independent audits, by appointing a
        competent highway consultant for the task – these audits apparently were not
        required in project design;
     c) Albeit imposing additional strain on the supervision team, the Bank team showed
        sensitivity to and willingly accepted, at no additional budget, the Government’s
        request for the Bank team to oversee and check, before tendering, the quality of
        the design and costs estimates proposed for the CREMA works that were
        financed with its own funds.
     d) In spite of resistance of the government counterparts, the Bank supervision team
        acted decisively when near the end of the project it discovered safeguard policies
        problems and prompted Management to amend the Loan Agreement in order to
        incorporate the appropriate safeguards, thus avoiding that the project would be in
        contradiction to Bank’s policies.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Overall, Bank performance is rated: Satisfactory, as the efforts carried out during the
implementation of the project to ensure it stayed on track and the fact that the
government requested the Bank to expand its review to the entire national program
represents a basis for a rating.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Throughout project design and implementation, Government’s performance was also
satisfactory. First of all, and most unusual in Bank-financed projects, the Government
made sure that the project did not fall short of providing the necessary counterpart funds:
budgetary allocations to DNV increased dramatically from US$ 1.4 billion in 2006 to
nearly US$ 3.5 billion in 2012, while additional funds from the Treasury were made
available to finance an impressive new CREMA program, covering about 7,000 km,
nearly meeting the target set out at appraisal. Finally, the Government, in order to ensure
coherence with the Bank-financed program, proactively decided to request Bank’s
support to verify - before bidding - the technical design and financial cost estimates used
in their own CREMA program. Perhaps, one can only deplore, on the one hand, the long
delay in the Government countersigning the Amendment to the Loan Agreement and, on
the other hand, lack of communication with the Bank regarding a longer-term objectives
for the CREMA approach.

Overall, Government performance is rated: Satisfactory




                                            13
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
The performance of DNV was marginally satisfactory both during the design and
implementation phases of the project. At appraisal, the sub-projects that were elaborated
to constitute the first-year CREMA work program were adequately designed both in
terms of technical quality and estimated costs. Subsequently, the technical standards and
costs evaluations proposed for both the Bank and the counterpart-financed CREMA
program were consistent with the pursuit of reasonable and cost-efficient solutions.
Finally, when the issue of safeguards emerged and was brought to the attention of the
Agency, late 2010, the eventual reaction was to strengthen environmental and social
monitoring despite their frustration in the face of an unexpected and uncommon situation.
However, it is regrettable that DNV did not: (i) allow the Bank to implement a forum on
the CREMA that was proposed by the Bank supervision team; (ii) have a discussion on
the Agency’s strategy for sustaining in the long-term the benefits of the CREMA
program and its expansion to cover a greater length of the paved non-concessioned
national network. The limited execution of the institutional component and slow
progress on bridges and road safety subcomponents was an issue.

Overall, the performance of the Implementing Agency is rated as Moderately Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
For the above reasons, the overall Borrower Performance is rated: Moderately
Satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

The following key lessons were learned during the execution of the Loan:
   1. Despite Bank’s worldwide experience with the difficulty in achieving the objectives
      of Institutional Components, this project fell victim, once again, of a scope of tasks
      not fully committed to by a client. Out of the major actions that formed part of the
      Renewal Plan to reform DNV, only two were formally requested by the Agency,
      namely: a financial support to engineering Schools, and Technological
      modernization, and those were satisfactorily achieved. All the others were
      submitted by the Bank without fully ensuring beforehand, a formal ownership by
      DNV. The result was that scheduled assignments fell short of being achieved, when
      not simply cancelled during implementation. The Bank must be prepared and
      willing to accept that reality i.e., the fact that institutional reforms or even
      improvements may or will not take place within a short expected timeframe and
      without the Borrower’s consent and ownership. In order to avoid those
      shortcomings, future projects should concentrate on a achievable tasks for which
      the Borrower shows to have a genuine appetite;
   2. The policy of independent technical audits during project implementation proved
       to be extremely valuable and should be widely institutionalized for this type of
       interventions. Indeed, that policy is a complement to the activities carried out
       during formal supervision missions on site or during the regular follow-up work
       done by Bank staff at Head Office. The audits carried out throughout the
       execution of this project, helped depict a number of deficiencies or needs for

                                            14
      improvements in the supervision by DNV, that were subsequently brought to the
      attention of the authorities for remedial actions;
   3. The assessment done by the World Bank of use of CREMA in Argentina (the
      2010 study referred to in section 3.3), found that the overall cost effectiveness of
      these type of contracts in comparison to traditional ad-measurement or input
      contracts is 24 percent. Argentina’s and the World Bank’s experience with these
      type of contracts is and should continue to be presented in road sector
      engagements in other countries.
   4. One additional advantage of the CREMA system that is rarely mentioned and yet
      became, once again, apparent during project execution, is that it allows reasonably
      swift disbursement of Bank’s funds, since payments are not linked to time-
      consuming measurements and testing as is the case in traditional inputs-based
      contracting systems. Indeed the shift from traditional input-based contracts to the
      performance-based CREMA contracts in 1995-97 was essentially motivated by
      the slow disbursement of Bank’s Loan 3611. Slow disbursements were due the
      lack of, inadequate and/or untimely final engineering rehabilitation designs that
      caused severe delays in execution and several modifications of works with
      corresponding variation orders. With the CREMAs adequate preliminary or
      conceptual designs are made by DNV and provided to bidders to help them make
      meaningful bids, while the final engineering design is the responsibility of the
      winning bidder who has only 45 days to produce the final design after signing the
      contract. Such system is more efficient and enables much quicker initiation of
      works and disbursements as well as it limits the need for design modifications and
      cost overruns during execution. In addition, Finance Ministries are generally
      keen to have Bank loans quickly disbursed, in order to avoid unnecessary
      payments of interest charges that build up when loan proceeds remain idle for a
      long period of time.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Minor editorial comments have been made by the Implementing Agency.

(b) Cofinanciers: Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders Not applicable




                                            15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                             Appraisal
                                                       millions)
1. CREMA                               360.00             389.80                 108.3
2. Bridges                              16.00               6.03                   3.4
3. Road Safety                          19.00               0.10                   0.0
4. Institutional Renewal                 5.00               4.07                  81.4
            Total Baseline Cost        400.00             400.00                 100.0
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00               -
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00              -
             Total Project Costs            400.00              400.00           100.0
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                0.00              -
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                0.00              -
     Total Financing Required               400.00              400.00           100.0




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD        (USD      Appraisal
                                                         millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                              935.10      952.70         101.88
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       400.00      400.00         100.00
and Development




                                               16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 Objective/Outcome                                                                     Achieved under APL2,
   per Component           Expected Output at Appraisal of APL2                         at closing, Sept. 2013
CREMA Coverage             9,608 km of which 3,290 km Bank-funded,       9,044 km of CREMA contracts contracted, of
                           and 6,318 km Treasury-financed                which 3,327 km with Bank’s funds and 5,718 km
                                                                         with local funds, i.e., 94% of expected
                           Average IRI < 3.5                             Avg. IRI in 2011 and 2012: 3.09 and 3.08
Bridges
                           BMS in operation                              BMS in operation
                           15 priority bridges rehabilitated             7 priority bridges being rehabilitated
Road Safety                Design and execute 4 pilot safety corridors   Only one corridor ready for bidding
                           (including monitoring system)
                           Improve 31(later reduced to15) critical       3 black spots improved
                           black-spots
Institutional Renewal of   Short-run Human Resources plan                Human Resources Diagnosis completed. Only
DNV                        implemented                                   Short-term training program implemented
                           Adopt Road Sector Financing study             Road Sector Financing study, and strategic study
                           recommendations                               for Territorial Development completed. Road
                                                                         Sector study recommendations not implemented
                           Performance indicators for DNV and            Some progress has been achieved.
                           dissemination mechanisms developed
                           Road Users Satisfaction Index developed       Little progress.
                           Strengthen Division of Environment            Environmental Manual updated. Training of staff
                                                                         implemented.
                           Modernize technology within DNV               State-of-the-art axle-load control system designed
                                                                         but yet to be implemented
                           Streamline DNV processes in management,       Consultant contracted for diagnosis of procurement
                           procurement, etc.                             processes; recommendations not implemented
                           Financially Assist in 4 Road Technicians      4 Schools satisfactorily assisted.
                           Schools (running expenditures)




                                                      17
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
CREMA Component

An economic analysis to confirm the Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) and the
Net Present Value (NPV) established at appraisal using the Bank’s HDM model was
carried out by the Planning Department of DNV, using the same model. The ex-post
evaluation covered a sample of 4,349 km CREMA networks, belonging to both the Bank-
financed and Treasury-financed contracts. To be representative, the sample of networks
was selected with the following criteria in mind: (i) the rehabilitation and maintenance
works were practically completed at the time of the evaluation; (ii) they would cover
different geographic areas of the country; and (iii) their total length would be equal to at
least 30 percent of the total length of new contracts financed under the project.

The factors that would primarily affect the results of the analyses – as compared to
appraisal - were revised and updated, namely:
     • The actual cost of the works, incorporating increases that occurred as a result of
         inflation, bid prices, and design adjustments;
     • The dates or periods at which the rehabilitation component of the contracts was
         actually executed and completed (start-up year);
     • The costs of vehicles operation during the period of implementation of the
         capital works (as established in DNV’s V.O.C Manual, COSTOP);
     • The actual condition of the pavements (roughness, and other surface defects) and
         levels of traffic measured, prior to rehabilitation;
     • The actual rehabilitation standards or overlay thickness executed; and
     • The actual roughness measured after rehabilitation (as obtained from the various
         independent technical audits carried out by the Bank, i.e., IRI generally equal to
         1.8)

Otherwise, all other meaningful factors were kept unchanged in the evaluation: (i) the
analysis period continued to be 20 years; (ii) economic costs remained at about 71
percent of financial costs; (iii) annual traffic growth rate after rehabilitation remained at 3
percent for all types of vehicles; (iv) no generated traffic or exogenous benefits were
taken into account; (v) the discount rate remained at 12 percent; (v) the base scenario or
without project case consisted in a standard routine maintenance policy with 100 percent
patching followed by reconstruction works when the IRI reaches 8 IRI; (vi) future
maintenance policy for the with-project case consisted in routine maintenance (100
percent of potholes patched) and applying a 5 cm-thick overlay when roughness reaches
4 IRI.
The results of the updated economic evaluation are summarized in the following Table.
They show that the revised weighted average Economic Internal Rate of Return IERR is
41 percent compared to a weighted average of 47 percent obtained at appraisal, with an
NPV, at 12 percent discount rate, in the order of US$ 160,000/km, in economic terms, as
compared to a weighted average of US$ 145,000/km obtained at appraisal.



                                              18
Mallas Parte A2 Bank-Financing

             NPV ARS        NPV
  Malla         M           US$M     IERR %   Length, km   NPV/km
  108B        175.94         35.2       71       192       183,271
   132        52.25          10.5       39       114        91,667
   206        283.84         56.8      107       168       337,905
   208        118.57         23.7       49       153       154,993
   307        50.03          10.0       28       188        53,223
   308         6.8           1.4        13       219         6,210
   314         9.24          1.8        39       162        11,407
  401A        98.33          19.7       29       146       134,699
   403         45.7          9.1        17       236        38,729
  405A        58.66          11.7       46       123        95,382
   503        358.69         71.7      104       178       403,022
   508         7.91          1.6        20       131        12,076
   510        49.53          9.9        50        82       120,805
Sub-total     1315.49        263.1     47        2092      125,764
Malla Parte A3 Treasury- financed

             NPV ARS        NPV
  Malla          M          US$M     IERR %   Length, km   NPV/km
   111          183          36.6       50        130      281,538
   114          234          46.8       60        144      325,000
   120          217          43.4       49        203      213,793
   130          106          21.2       37        172      123,256
   140           97          19.4       34        119      163,025
  209C           49          9.8        21        161       60,870
   211          259          51.8       61        140      370,000
   212          362          72.4       46        203      356,650
  401B          214          42.8       44        109      392,661
   531           43          8.6        21        201       42,786
   541          117          23.4       29         89      262,921
   603            8          1.6        21        179        8,939
   630           12          2.4        14        215       11,163
   632            8          1.6        17        160       10,000
   634           36          7.2        24        219       32,877
Sub-total      1945          389       35.2      2444      159,165
28 Mallas
  Total       3260.49        652.1     41        4536      143,761


                                     19
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Marcelo Hector Acerbi     Senior Environmental Specialist      LCSEN
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao   Senior Highway Engineer              ECSTR
Vickram Cuttaree          Senior Infrastructure Economist      MNSTI
Gerard L. Liautaud        Consultant                           ECSTR
Juan Lopez-Silva          Consultant                           LCSEN
Andres Mac Gaul           Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Reynaldo F. Pastor        Chief Counsel                        LEGLE
Geise B. Santos           Program Assistant                    LCSEN
Tomas S. Serebrisky       Senior Infrastructure Economist      LCSSD
Maria Marcela Silva       Lead Transport Specialist            LCSTR
Alejandro Roger Solanot   Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM

Supervision/ICR
Marcelo Hector Acerbi     Senior Environmental Specialist      LCSEN
Sergio Espana             Consultant                           LCSHE
Gerard L. Liautaud        Consultant                           ECSTR
Ricardo Eduardo Lugea     Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Andres Mac Gaul           Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Hector Miguel Mansilla    Consultant                           LCSTR
Federico Ricardo Manuel
                          Consultant                           LCSTR
Mejer
Lilian Pedersen           Consultant                           LCSSO
Alejandro Roger Solanot   Sr Financial Management Specia       LCSFM
Gylfi Palsson             Lead Transport Specialist            LCSTR
Cecilia Corvalan          Senior Transport Economist           LCSTR
Elba Gaggero              Senior Environmental Specialist      LCSEN
Daniel Chalupowicz        Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM
Maria Marcela Silva       Lead Transport Specialist            LCSTR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                                                   146.46
  FY08                                                                    -2.28
                          Total:                                         144.18
Supervision/ICR
 FY08                                                             Not loaded in system

                                           20
FY09                 Not loaded in system
FY10                 Not loaded in system
FY11                 Not loaded in system
FY12                        200.60
FY13                         95.82
FY14                         44.04
       Total:               340.46




                21
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable




                                      22
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                   23
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

DNV has prepared a succinct ICR report of its own. It is presented in its entirety and in
original language.




                                            24
                             REPUBLICA ARGENTINA
                        DIRECCION NACIONAL DE VIALIDAD

                                PROYECTO
                 GESTION DE ACTIVOS DE VIALIDAD NACIONAL

                                  PRESTAMO 7473 AR

                              INFORME DE CIERRE FINAL
                                   ENERO DE 2014.

1. OBJETIVO Y COMPONENTES

1.1 OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO

La finalidad general del programa fue consolidar gradualmente una estrategia de gestión
eficaz de la red vial, generando parte de los recursos necesarios para preservar la red vial
nacional en el largo plazo. El Proyecto propuesto se basó en los logros alcanzados en
proyectos anteriores, también financiados por el Banco, y tuvo los siguientes objetivos
específicos:

   •        Preservar el estado de los activos viales, mejorando la condición física de las
            calzadas y evitando su deterioro mediante un adecuado plan de mantenimiento.
   •        Reducir los costos económicos de los usuarios a largo plazo para lograr un
            adecuado beneficio económico.
   •        Fortalecer la capacidad de la DNV para planificar, contratar y supervisar los
            contratos.
   •        Aumentar la seguridad vial.

1.2 INDICADORES CLAVE

   i)         Longitud de la Red Pavimentada no concesionada incluída en el Sistema
              CREMA.
   ii)        Cantidad de Puentes Rehabilitados
   iii)       Implementación de Corredores de Seguridad Vial
   iv)        Cumplimiento del Programa de Renovación Institucional incluyendo a)
              actualización de los sistemas de comunicación, b) Fortalecimiento de la Unidad
              de Gestión Ambiental de la DNV y d) realización de estudios estratégicos para la
              red vial Argentina.

1.3 COMPONENTES

1.3.1     Descripción


          FÍSICOS

         Rehabilitación y mantenimiento de las carreteras mediante los Contratos
          C.Re.Ma.: Estos contratos ya iniciados en el Préstamo 3611-AR y continuados en
          el 4295-AR y el 7242-AR, requieren que el Contratista recupere la calzada (en los

                                            25
    tramos que esto es necesario), en una Malla de rutas, y realizar el mantenimiento por
    un periodo total de 5 años. El esquema de supervisión se hace sobre la base de
    controlar que se lleven a cabo las tareas de recuperación y el mantenimiento, con el
    logro de un estado mínimo de la calzada que asegura el nivel de servicio de la ruta.
    El pago se realiza en base a un esquema de precio total con certificaciones en base a
    cuotas establecidas en función de las tareas ejecutadas para los trabajos de
    recuperación, más una cuota mensual por el mantenimiento.
    De esta manera se logra establecer un nivel de servicio con un gasto previsible y
    uniforme.

    En el Appraisal se previó continuar con la financiación de 8 de estos contratos
    iniciados en el APL1 cubriendo aproximadamente 1.417 Km y contratar otras 12
    mallas con una longitud de aproximadamente 1.873 Km, totalizando de esta manera
    20 Mallas financiadas y una longitud de 3.290 Km aproximadamente.
    Además estableció que la DNV contrataría otras 50 Mallas durante la vigencia de los
    dos tramos de Préstamo APL1 y APL2 cubriendo una longitud de 7.637 Km.
    Considerando que en el APL1 se iniciaron 8 Mallas acumulando una longitud de
    1.282 Km, para el APL2 quedó una meta de 42 Mallas con una extensión de 6.318
    Km.

•      Restauración y Construcción de Puentes: El proyecto contemplaba dos
       actividades:

       a) la financiación de obras en trece puentes con necesidad de intervención. Las
          obras incluirían actividades de construcción, reconstrucción, reemplazo,
          ensanchamiento y rehabilitación, todas las cuales se llevarían a cabo dentro
          del derecho de paso existente. Durante el MTR se fijó la meta en 8 puentes.
       b) la financiación de diseños de ingeniería para futuros proyectos de
          recuperación de aproximadamente 20 puentes. Esta actividad se anuló en el
          MTR.

•      Componente de Seguridad Vial.

       Se previeron dos subcomponentes:

       a) El proyecto previó la realización de experiencias sobre seguridad vial en
          tramos denominados corredores, estableciendo los mecanismos para su
          puesta en marcha. Esto incluía el diseño de un Sistema para efectuar el
          seguimiento y la evaluación de los impactos, formular campañas de
          educación, realizar diseños de ingeniería como así también las obras en los
          corredores propuestos, que inicialmente fueron dos y posteriormente durante
          el MTR se redujo a un corredor.

       b)   Además se financiarían obras puntuales en aproximadamente 15 puntos
            críticos identificados de la red vial, los que fueron reducidos a 7 durante el
            MTR, para mejorar la seguridad vial.

•              Componente 4 – Renovación Institucional de la DNV.

       El proyecto previó financiar una serie de actividades:


                                       26
              a)   Soporte al programa de educación secundaria y terciaria de la DNV.
              b)   Fortalecimiento de la capacidad ambiental de la DNV.
              c)   Soporte a la DNV sobre temas de Gestión Financiera.
              d)   Asistencias Técnicas para completar estudios estratégicos.
              e)   Mejora en el Sistema de Comunicación entre las Regiones de la DNV.


1.3.2    Montos asignados

En el siguiente Cuadro se muestra la versión original a la firma del acuerdo del Préstamo el

27 de Junio de 2008, que contemplaba una inversión total para el Proyecto de 1.332,9

Millones de U$S de los cuales correspondían 400 Millones de U$S (30%) para el BIRF y

932,9 Millones de U$S (70%) para la DNV.

                                                 En miles de dólares
                                                       PRESTAMO            CONTRAPARTE LOCAL
                   Categoría                      % BIRF      MONTO        % DNV    MONTO        TOTAL

   1(a). Contratos Crema – Parte 1(a)                 74       106.000        26        37.243     143.243
   1(b). Contratos Crema – Parte 1(b)                 74       253.750        26        89.155     342.905
   1(c). Obras en Puentes                             74        15.800        26         5.551      21.351
   1(d). Obras de Seguridad Vial                      74        16.300        26         5.727      22.027
   2. Bienes                                          70           500        30           214         714
   3. Servicios de Consultoría, Capacitación y
      Costos Operativos                              100         4.750         0             0       4.750
   7. Costo Unitario Elegible de Educación           100         2.900         0             0       2.900
                    Sub-Total                                  400.000                 137.891     537.891
   Obras CREMA No-Financiadas                                          0               795.000     795.000
                 Total Proyecto                                400.000                 932.891    1.332.891



Se realizó una primera enmienda en el tercer trimestre de 2012 mediante la cual se
reasignaron fondos a la Categoría 2 – Bienes – descontándolos de la Categoría 1 (b) –
Contratos Crema Parte 1 (b)
Como consecuencia de esta enmienda según se puede ver en el Cuadro siguiente el Monto del
Proyecto pasó a 1.333,1 Millones de U$S, manteniéndose el monto aportado por el Banco en
400 Millones de U$S y el aporte de la DNV pasó a 933,1 Millones de U$S.

    PRIMERA ENMIENDA                                  Montos en miles de dólares
                                                     PRESTAMO            CONTRAPARTE LOCAL
                   Categoría                     % BIRF     MONTO        % DNV    MONTO          TOTAL

   1(a). Contratos Crema – Parte 1(a)                 74       106.000        26        37.243     143.243
   1(b). Contratos Crema – Parte 1(b)                 74       251.250        26        88.277     349.527
   1(c). Obras en Puentes                             74        15.800        26         5.551      21.351
   1(d). Obras de Seguridad Vial                      74        16.300        26         5.727      22.027
   2. Bienes                                          70         3.000        30         1.286       4.286
   3. Servicios de Consultoría, Capacitación y
      Costos Operativos                              100         4.750         0             0       4.750
   7. Costo Unitario Elegible de Educación           100         2.900         0             0       2.900
                    Sub-Total                                  400.000                 138.084     538.084
   Obras CREMA No-Financiadas                                          0               795.000     795.000



                                                     27
                                                          PRESTAMO          CONTRAPARTE LOCAL
                      Total Proyecto                             400.000                933.084     1.333.084


        En Mayo de 2013 se llevó a cabo una segunda enmienda, y con el propósito de
    utilizar totalmente los fondos del Préstamo, se reasignaron fondos entre las distintas
    categorías, dando como resultado la matriz de financiamiento que se muestra en el
    siguiente cuadro:


         SEGUNDA ENMIENDA                                  Montos en miles de dólares
                                                          PRESTAMO            CONTRAPARTE LOCAL
                        Categoría                     % BIRF     MONTO        % DNV    MONTO       TOTAL

        1(a). Contratos Crema – Parte 1(a)                74      106.000      26         37.243     143.243
        1(b). Contratos Crema – Parte 1(b)                74      281.500      26         98.905     380.405
        1(c). Obras en Puentes                            74        7.800      26          2.741      10.541
        1(d). Obras de Seguridad Vial                     74        1.300      26            457       1.757
        2. Bienes                                         70            0      30              0           0
        3. Servicios de Consultoría, Capacitación y
           Costos Operativos                             100          500       0              0         500
        7. Costo Unitario Elegible de Educación          100        2.900       0              0       2.900
                         Sub-Total                                400.000                139.346     539.346
        Obras CREMA No-Financiadas                                     0                 795.000     795.000
                  Total Proyecto                                  400.000                934.346    1.334.346




    2. CUMPLIMIENTO DE OBJETIVOS – COMPONENTES - INDICADORES

    2.1 FÍSICOS

2.1.1    Contratos CREMA - Volúmenes de Aplicación del Proyecto

         Las Obras financiadas tuvieron la siguiente implementación:

         f)   Se continuó con la financiación de 7 contratos iniciados en el APL1, los cuales
              totalizan una longitud de 1.236 Km
         g)   Se contrataron 13 nuevas Mallas con un total de 2.091 Km.

              De esta manera se cumplió con el objetivo total acumulando 20 contratos y 3.327
              Km.

         Se adjunta un cuadro con el detalle de las obras financiadas.




                                                         28
MALLAS CREMA A2
                                                                                                                                            2013

                                                                                                                                                                 Importe que fue
                                     LONG.                                                                    Monto Contrato
                                               Monto Contrato                                                                     % de         Importe          Financiado (en $)
      MALLA N°       PROVINCIA       MALLA                             Contratista           FECHA INICIO   Redeterminado en
                                                   en $                                                                          Avance   Redeterminado en $     en el Prestamo
                                      Km                                                                            $
                                                                                                                                                                    7242 AR


NTRATADAS EN EL APL1
                      Neuquen        140,00     45.430.000,00                                  01-10-07        69.882.609,97      80,8%       56.473.871,88          4.486.939,38
                    Evento Com pens able 1 -    12.781.933,52                                  31-01-11        21.774.226,66     100,0%       21.774.226,66
  1     133                  Etapa I                                 Codi - Conevial
                    Evento Com pens able 1 -    23.313.814,96                                  30-09-12        51.575.257,67      69,1%       35.654.749,18
                             Etapa II
                     Evento com pens able 2    4.083.401,52                                    31-10-11         8.640.477,62     100,0%            8640477,62
                     San Luis -
  2     305                          210,75     52.322.793,91                                                                                                        7.914.626,14
                     Mendoza                                          Decavial S.A.            01-08-07        66.307.039,00     100,0%       66.303.766,77

  3     330          MENDOZA         182,05     85.689.000,00                                                                                                      35.874.877,39
                                                                      Green S.A.              01-12-06         112.554.870,00    100,0%      112.552.654,52
                 Sgo del Es tero -                              Panedile - CPC - Concret
                                      251,9     86.812.500,00                                 03-04-07         108.538.270,31    100,0%      108.538.270,31        45.059.501,06
  4     431      Salta - Tucum àn                                      Nor UTE
                     Evento Com pens able 1

  5     437           Tucum àn       161,26     79.900.000,00                                                                                                      31.586.942,85
                                                                       Green S.A.             01-05-07         106.444.442,00    100,0%      106.444.442,00

  6     505          FORMOSA         181,41     67.804.270,59                                                                                                                0,00
                                                                         ICF S.A.             01-05-08          94.859.809,70    100,0%        94.859.809,70

  7     507         CORRIENTES       108,18     58.390.000,00                                                                                                                0,00
                                                                       Rovial S.A.            01-05-08          77.649.330,83    100,0%       77.649.330,83
                                     1235,55                                                                   718.226.333,76     95,9%       688.891.599,47      124.922.886,82
NTRATADAS EN EL APL2

  8     307           San Luis       187,76     65.387.888,87
                                                                  Rovella Carranza S.A.       01-11-08          90.748.329,00     99,5%       90.293.055,00

  9     206         Buenos Aires     167,67    115.942.980,83
                                                                     Burgwardt S.A.           01-11-09         170.433.624,00     95,1%      162.070.348,00

                    Buenos Aires     153,16    116.415.000,00
                                                                  Panedile - Rovella          01-01-10         167.899.352,00     94,7%      158.927.636,00
 10     208
                                                                Carranza - Eleprint UTE
                      Evento Com pens able      10.617.121,50
                                                                                              23-05-11          16.648.047,11    100,0%       16.648.047,11

                     Rio Negro       192,05    112.340.000,00
                                                                                              01-02-10         156.352.318,00     93,1%      145.533.303,00
 11     108B                                                          Equim ac S.A.
                 Evento Com pens able N° 1      13.849.001,88
                                                                                              06-09-10          19.707.129,68    100,0%       19.707.129,68
                    Chaco y S. del
 12     405A                         122,84    144.753.562,79
                       Es tero                                     a caDecavial
                                                                         ba S   S.A.
                                                                                  Sapag       01-10-09         186.269.722,00     97,1%      180.956.978,00
                                                                 S.A. - R. Cam m is a S.A.
 13     132          La Pam pa       114,05    120.129.227,90
                                                                            UTE               05-04-10         169.938.065,00     96,8%      164.452.461,00     Obras contratadas
                                                                                                                                                                 bajo el 7473 AR
                        Salta        146,39    107.951.821,21
                                                                Noroes te Cons trucciones      01-12-10       148.987.544,00      96,1%      143.175.894,00
 14     401A
                                                                           S.A.
                 Evento Com pens able N° 1      37.975.157,80
                                                                                               28-05-12        64.073.324,66      58,4%       37.389.339,05
                     San Luis y                                    Green S.A. - Lem iro
 15     314                           162       62.898.821,92
                     Mendoza                                       Pietroboni S.A. UTE         01-05-11        95.280.003,00      85,9%       81.824.645,00

 16     503          Corrientes       178,00   201.094.298,55                                 01-10-11         314.840.985,00
                                                                      Hom aq S.A.                                                 41,9%      131.915.491,00

 17     510          Entre Rios        82,00    64.946.222,79                                 01-07-11          89.564.392,00
                                                                     Luis Los i S.A.                                              96,1%       86.042.282,00
                 Catam arca y La
 18     403                           235,70   180.091.863,79                                 01/11/2011      270.203.247,00      61%
                     Rioja                                            Vialm ani S.A.                                                        165.224.988,00
 19     508            Chaco          130,79   107.791.187,86                                 01/01/2012      142.215.702,00      48%        68.730.280,00
                                                                           gg S.A.
                                                                    Maquivial
                    La Rioja y San                               Rom ero Cam m is a S.A.
 20     308                           218,85   171.295.337,66                                 01/12/2011      254.449.009,00                111.622.362,00
                        Juan                                             UTE                                                      43,9%
                         Sub-Total     2.091                                                                  2.357.610.793,45   74,8%       1.764.514.238,84

                            TOTAL      3.327




               h)       En cuanto a las obras con financiamiento 100 % local, durante la vigencia del APL2
                        se llegaron a contratar 37 Mallas cubriendo una longitud de 5.718 Km de acuerdo al
                        detalle mostrado en el siguiente cuadro:




                                                                               29
     APL1 - PARTE A 3 DEL PRÉS TAMO 7242 AR (OBRAS NO FINANCIADAS )

                                 LONG.                          MONTO                MONTO
     MALLA                                  Fecha de                                                    Monto Certificado   Avance
               PROVINCIA         MALLA                        CONTRATO             CONTRATO
      N°                                    Replanteo                                                    al 30-09-2013    Financiero
                                  Km.                          ORIGINAL          REDETERMINADO

1      204        Cordoba        155,39      01-02-07         $ 64.644.285,00     $ 69.942.862,03         $ 7.145.025,32        10%        Obra rescind

2      303        La Rioja       237,92      01/08/06         $ 47.395.449,00     $ 56.012.568,15        $ 55.999.454,72        100%

3      309        La Rioja       300,75      01-07-06         $ 68.138.212,00     $ 85.932.798,91        $ 85.932.180,25        100%

4      313A      M endoza        113,11      01-04-07         $ 47.890.331,48     $ 61.908.567,00        $ 61.908.567,00        100%

5      313B      M endoza        145,79      01-08-06         $ 43.478.617,71     $ 52.618.402,44        $ 52.619.013,01        100%

6      501       Corrientes      144,33      01-08-06         $ 47.315.000,00     $ 57.431.679,79        $ 57.430.761,17        100%

7     513C       Entre Rios       82,94      01-07-06         $ 43.557.560,00     $ 50.948.693,81        $ 50.948.680,45        100%

8      534       Corrientes      101,59      01-07-07         $ 70.907.025,00     $ 80.561.772,35        $ 80.564.288,68        100%

                Total APL 1       1.282                       $ 433.326.480,19      $ 515.357.344,48      $ 452.547.970,60      88%


     APL 2 - PARTE A 3 DEL PRÉS TAMO 7473 AR (OBRAS NO FINANCIADAS )

                                 LONG.                          MONTO                MONTO
     MALLA                                  Fecha de                                                      Certificado al        Avance
               PROVINCIA         MALLA                        CONTRATO             CONTRATO
      N°                                    Replanteo                                                      30/09/2013         Financiero
                                  Km.                          ORIGINAL          REDETERMINADO

     OBRAS CONTRATADAS
1       106   Neuquen            195,44      01/03/08          $ 96.032.007,28      $ 112.701.059,93      $ 112.695.237,74         100%
2      107A   Chubut             129,49     01/08/2009         $ 85.488.847,66      $ 103.793.390,22      $ 101.145.922,00          97%
3      107B   Chubut             135,47      01/11/07         $ 101.525.001,88      $ 127.516.109,96      $ 127.516.109,96         100%
4       111   Neuquen            130,36      01/01/11          $ 75.276.598,77       $ 99.784.245,78       $ 42.045.244,00          42%
5      123A   Rio Negro          113,08      01/09/07          $ 68.181.443,07       $ 75.904.451,24       $ 75.904.451,24         100%
6       140   Rio Negro          118,50      24/09/10         $ 146.326.051,05      $ 180.719.115,24      $ 176.056.854,00          97%
7      202B   Santa Fe             95        01/10/11         $ 190.503.765,68      $ 247.213.457,23      $ 188.898.446,00          76%
              Buenos Aires -
8      205    Santa Fe           171,90      01/07/08         $ 184.047.017,82      $ 221.140.915,00      $ 192.381.439,75          87%
9     209C    Santa Fe            161        01/10/11         $ 210.060.304,30      $ 268.580.722,00      $ 238.559.981,00          89%
10      234   Buenos Aires       124,66      01/12/07         $ 103.686.188,60      $ 127.244.017,97      $ 126.866.492,87         100%
11      311   La Rioja           282,51      02/01/08          $ 54.385.016,81       $ 63.888.021,31       $ 63.888.021,31         100%
12     401B   Salta              109,45     01/09/2009         $ 97.809.629,40      $ 121.409.986,56 $     119.096.582,00           98%
13      406   Jujuy - Salta      205,05      01/06/08         $ 130.000.000,00      $ 184.360.546,28      $ 140.823.246,10          76%
14      432   Jujuy              219,39      02/01/08         $ 107.197.059,37      $ 127.053.325,89      $ 126.541.900,03         100%
15      434   Salta              159,29      01/11/07         $ 118.194.500,76      $ 163.847.804,44      $ 163.847.804,44         100%
16      441   Catamarca           66,05      01/02/08          $ 80.380.800,15       $ 96.147.184,60       $ 94.526.959,03          98%
17      502   Entre Rios         146,75      01/06/08         $ 142.917.962,24      $ 163.453.477,44      $ 163.453.477,46         100%
18      504   M isiones          125,97      01/03/08         $ 105.468.997,00      $ 130.629.570,61      $ 130.627.369,91         100%
19      531   Formosa            201,28      01/11/10         $ 126.604.416,50      $ 162.511.093,57      $ 133.898.557,00          82%
20      533   Entre Rios         133,32      01/06/07          $ 83.958.620,97       $ 94.389.505,42       $ 94.386.561,00         100%
21      536   Chaco               88,39      01/04/08          $ 99.950.800,00      $ 125.400.960,30      $ 125.400.960,30         100%
22      539   M isiones          134,66      02/06/08         $ 104.969.263,25      $ 136.175.387,32      $ 136.173.204,53         100%
23      603   Tierra del Fuego   178,98      01/10/07          $ 88.892.020,35      $ 103.872.481,07      $ 103.871.982,61         100%
24      632   Chubut             159,62      01/09/07         $ 117.388.043,87      $ 142.225.991,46      $ 142.220.702,61         100%
25     211    Buenos Aires       139,62      01/01/13         $ 144.500.000,00      $ 188.408.916,00        $ 21.470.446,00         11%
              Buenos Aires y
                                 202,61      15/06/12
26     120    Rio Negro                                       $ 139.805.977,00      $ 177.187.918,00        $ 80.546.709,00         45%
27      334   M endoza           110,25      01/09/12         $ 78.888.879,29       $ 104.350.529,00        $ 30.413.713,00         29%
28      630   Chubut             214,64       01/10/12       $ 209.672.559,00       $ 258.529.697,00        $ 49.140.219,00         19%
29      634   Chubut             219,49       02/05/13       $ 224.779.440,36       $ 277.001.086,98        $ 21.556.906,00          8%
30     402A   Sgo del Estero      97,02       02/05/13        $ 50.911.489,00        $ 50.911.489,00         $ 6.807.919,00         13%
31      130   Neuquen            172,11   En elaboración de Proyecto Ejecutivo
32      212   Cordoba            203,25                      $ 234.187.686,00       $ 234.187.686,00         $ 4.187.275,00          2%
33     114    Rio Negro          144,36
34     103    Rio Negro          236,07
35    408 B   Catamarca          176,67
36     541    Chaco               88,94
37    402 B   S. del Estero      127,69
               S UB-TOTAL         5.718                    $ 3.801.990.387,43      $ 4.670.540.142,82    $ 3.334.950.693,89         71%

     OBRAS A LICITAR

38    117 A   La Pampa           134,45
39    116 B   La Pampa            124,4
40     302    San Juan           167,01
41     301    San Luis            235,4
42    201 A   Buenos Aires       112,83
        Total en APL 2 =         6.492

        Total en APL 1 =         1.282
                 TOTAL =         7.774                   30
 2.1.2 Evolución de los Km. atendidos por el Programa CREMA.

 Mostramos la evolución de la longitud atendida por dicho Sistema de Gestión el cual vemos
 que representó en promedio aproximadamente un 45 % de la Red Nacional Pavimentada No
 Concesionada (Actualmente de aprox. 24.000 Km). Observamos que el APL2 logró mantener
 el volumen de Km. bajo el sistema CREMA ante la finalización de los contratos de
 Programas anteriores, aunque no fue suficiente para aumentar la longitud total.

EVOLUCION DE LOS KM EN EL PROGRAMA CREMA


             CREMA      CREMA CREMA 2                      A2          A3
                                           A1           Prestamo    Prestamo      TOTAL
               1         2 Año Prestamo Prestam         s 7242 y    s 7242 y
Año                      2001    4295    o 7242           7473        7473
      2006       3382       679       1609       3555         182         912      10.319
      2007       2875       679       1609       3395         946         2286     11.790
      2008       2536         0       1609       3395        1423         3922     12.885
      2009       1637         0       1609       3259        1714         4161     12.380
      2010       859          0       1609       3259        2482         4456     12.665
      2011          0         0        526       1390        3196         4474        9.586
      2012          0         0        526       1261        3327         4707        9.821
      2013          0         0        387       1132       3145          5598     10.262




        14,000
                                                                CREMA 1

        12,000
                                                                CREMA2 Año 2001

        10,000
                                                                CREMA 2 Prestamo
                                                                4295
         8,000
                                                                A1 Prestamo 7242

         6,000
                                                                A2 Prestamos 7242 y
                                                                7473
         4,000
                                                                A3 Prestamos 7242 y
                                                                7473
         2,000
                                                                TOTAL
             0
                 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013




                                          31
2.1.3 Condición de la calzada.

    Para el análisis de la condición de la calzada en la Red Pavimentada No Concesionada en
la cual el programa CREMA gestiona aprox. el 45 % de la longitud, mostramos a
continuación un cuadro que muestra la Evolución del IRI en la misma durante la vigencia del
APL1 y del APL2.

   Analizando la evolución del IRI se puede apreciar el impacto del Programa CREMA
implementado durante el APL1 (Años 2004 – 2007) y el APL2 (Años 2008 – 2012).

   La mejora sostenida en la condición de las calzadas se refleja en la curva de evolución
debido a las reconstrucciones de calzada ejecutadas en las Mallas A1 durante los años 2005-
2006 para el APL1, y en las Mallas A2 y A3 en los años 2008-2012.


EVOLUCION ANUAL DEL IRI (Ecuación lineal)
RED NACIONAL PAVIMENTADA NO CONCESIONADA EVALUADA

            IRI      2004     2005      2006       2007       2008      2009     2010        2011      2012
                      Km       Km        Km         Km         Km        Km       Km          Km        Km
         <2             -        -         -          -          -         -         -           -         -
         2-3          5.258    5.754     7.039      6.413      5.320     6.301     9.128     7252,61     5.962
         3-4         12.509   12.675    10.632      9.309      7.352     7.113     1.545     7368,03     5.613
         4-5          2.391    2.460     1.387      1.522      1.302       706       417      451,78       485
         5-8            955      847       358        303        262                           166,6     118,3
                                                                           71           10
         >8              79        69        20         57         35                            -         -
                     21.192   21.805    19.436     17.603     14.271    14.191    11.100      15.239    12.178
         IRI Pond.     3,52      3,48      3,27        3,29      3,28     3,12      2,72        3,09      3,08
         iri > 5        5%        4%        2%          2%        2%      0,5%      0,1%        1,1%      1,0%




                       IRI Ponderado
  4,00

  3,50

  3,00

  2,50

  2,00
          2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012




                                                  32
     2.1.4      Componente PUENTES

                i)     Obras. La actividad se inició tardíamente dentro del plazo del Préstamo.
                       Recién en el 2010 se concretó la adjudicación y firma del primer contrato para
                       las obras de restauración de un puente. En el año 2011 se firmaron otros cuatro
                       contratos para la ejecución de cinco puentes y en el año 2013 casi al cierre del
                       Préstamo se contrató otro puente acumulando de esta manera seis contratos para
                       la ejecución de siete puentes. El avance de ejecución al 30-Set-2013 (cierre del
                       Préstamo) arroja un acumulado de 52 % para todos los contratos. La DNV
                       asumirá el 100% de los gastos que quedaran pendientes por ejecutar después del
                       30 de Setiembre de 2013 ya que las obras continuarán ejecutándose hasta su
                       finalización. Se muestra a continuación el avance financiero de los contratos
                       alcanzado al cierre del Préstamo.

     OBRAS CONTRATADAS
                                                                                  Monto del Contrato en $
                                                                                                                                  %
                                             PROVINCIA            Original           Redeterminado          Ejecutado         Ejecutado
 1 Puente y accesos s/Río Los Alisos             Jujuy             6.865.929,33          11.887.327,29       1.145.179,54          10%

 2                                               Jujuy
     Puente y accesos s/Río Perico                                13.148.670,33          17.190.154,52      17.190.154,52         100%

 3 Puentes y accesos s/Rio Malargue y s/       Mendoza
   Arroyo Loncoche                                                14.179.953,77          19.245.773,00       5.192.435,00          27%
                                              Santiago del
 4
     Puente y accesos s/Rio Salado              Estero            11.731.735,94          14.933.535,21      12.978.773,73          87%

 5                                             Santa Fe
     Puente y accesos s/Arroyo 3er Coronda                         8.085.549,80          11.919.873,93       2.788.298,31          23%
 6 Puente y accesos s/Río Medina               Tucuman            21.655.517,04          21.655.517,04                -             0%
                                                                        Totales          75.176.663,95        39.294.841,10        52%




                j) Diseños de ingeniería para recuperación de 20 puentes. Esta actividad no se
                   realizó dado que la DNV optó por seguir licitando las obras con los proyectos que
                   prepara el personal de la oficina de Puentes que luego el contratista ajusta para
                   lograr la profundidad de fundación adecuada a los estudios de suelos que realice,
                   elaborando un proyecto ejecutivo que es aprobado por dicha oficina de Puentes.

     2.1.5      Componente SEGURIDAD VIAL

     a) Corredores de Seguridad Vial.

          Se había previsto inicialmente la ejecución de las obras en dos corredores:

          •    Tramo Experimental La Pampa:
          •    Tramo Experimental Corrientes:

         Los contratos de consultoría para la elaboración de los diseños de ingeniería necesarios
para la implementación del Programa de ejecución de las obras y demás actividades conexas, se
encontraban en desarrollo financiadas inicialmente con el APL1 y posteriormente con fondos
locales. Se contaba con que se tendría el proyecto a tiempo para poder contratar las obras para un
corredor, pero la entrega final de los proyectos por parte de las firmas consultoras recién se hizo
efectivo a mediados del año 2013 ya cuando estaba por cerrar el APL2, no pudiéndose llevar a

                                                             33
  cabo la experiencia de realizar las mejoras de seguridad vial en uno de los tramos, evaluando sus
  resultados.

      b) Obras puntuales.
         En el primer llamado a licitación las ofertas no fueron aceptables, por lo que no fue
         posible la contratación de las obras. Ante una reformulación de los proyectos agrupando
         las obras de intervención en dos contratos, se llegó a formalizar un contrato en Julio de
         2013, que comprende tres intervenciones puntuales en sendas intersecciones sobre la Ruta
         11 en la Provincia de Chaco. Se detalla en el siguiente cuadro el avance al cierre del
         Préstamo:

                                                                                                             Monto
                                                                                            Monto         Certificado al
                                                         Inicio de la Situación de        Contrato en      30-Set-13
                         Obra                              Obra         la obra              $AR            en $AR
 Obras de Seguridad Vial en Ruta 11 – Provincia de      26-Agosto-13     Obra en
Chaco                                                                  ejecución          22,232,700       2,043,584


          Las obras se siguen ejecutando y serán financiadas con fondos locales.

      2.2 RENOVACION INSTITUCIONAL

           a) Programa de Educación Secundaria y Terciaria en la DNV
               Se llevó a cabo el financiamiento del Costo Unitario Elegible de Educación en las
               Escuelas Técnicas de la DNV correspondiente a los años 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 y
               2012.
               Se había establecido como meta que al final del Proyecto estuvieran funcionando 4
               escuelas con un total de 400 alumnos promovidos al siguiente nivel. Esto fue
               satisfactoriamente cumplido dado que el último año financiado por el Proyecto
               (2012) se contó con 5 Escuelas funcionado y el total de alumnos promovidos para
               ese año fueron 523, de acuerdo al siguiente detalle:


                       Institución         Alumnos Promovidos
                                              Nivel Secundario       Nivel Terciario         TOTAL
               N° 1 - Oreste Casano                             29                   52              81
               N° 2 - Juan Domingo Pio                           0                   56              56
               N° 3 - Manuel Belgrano                          245                   50             295
               N° 4 - Luis Barletta                              7                   47              54
               N° 5 - Santa Cruz                                 0                   37              37
                                                                                                    523

           b) Fortalecimiento de la Capacidad Ambiental de la DNV

                   •    Diseminación del MEGA.
                        Esta actividad fue realizada con otra de las fuentes de financiación con que
                        cuenta la DNV.
                        Durante el año 2013 se llevaron a cabo 5 capacitaciones: (i) Buenos Aires
                        (31/7 al 2/8); (ii) SS Jujuy (20 al 22/8); (iii) Santa Fe (3 al 5/9); (iv) San

                                                  34
                       Luis (17 al 19/9); y (v) Trelew (8 al 10/10). Cada capacitación se realizó
                       durante un período de tres días, y fue atendida por un promedio de 30-40
                       participantes. El balance de esta capacitación fue muy positivo, no solo con
                       una alta participación, sino por un gran interés tanto del personal de
                       Vialidad, así como de otras agencias participantes.

                  •   Estudio de Pasivos Ambientales.
                      Esta actividad fue desarrollada por el consultor contratado que financia el
                      Préstamo. Los informes producidos fueron oportunamente enviados al
                      Banco, para su revisión por parte del especialista ambiental del Proyecto.

           c) Soporte a la DNV sobre temas de Gestión Financiera

                Por decisión de la DNV no se llevó adelante esta actividad. Los recursos
                asignados fueron reprogramados en el marco de la reasignación de fondos que
                elaboró la DNV dentro de la restructuración del proyecto efectuada luego de la
                Misión de MTR.

           d) Asistencias Técnicas para completar Estudios Estratégicos.

              Dentro de esta actividad se firmó un convenio de Hermanamiento para el manejo
              de la vialidad invernal (Fase III).

           e) Mejora en el Sistema de Comunicación entre las Regiones.

                   Para la implementación se prepararon los documentos de licitación y
               fueron aprobados por el Banco. Dado que la actividad requería de la compra
               de bienes en el exterior, en el contexto de restricciones a las importaciones al
               momento de iniciar el proceso de adquisición un contrato de esta naturaleza
               podría verse comprometido por lo que la DNV finalmente decidió no realizar
               la compra de los equipos de Video Conferencia.

     2.3     FINANCIEROS


     Los montos finales desembolsados en las distintas categorías financiadas por el Banco y
     aportados por la DNV se pueden apreciar en el siguiente cuadro.

                                                                     MONTOS EN MILES DE U$S
                           CATEGORÍA                                     BIRF          DNV        TOTAL
1a   Contratos CREMA (iniciados en APL1)                                   106.991 37.592             144.583
1b   Contratos CREMA APL2                                                  282.829 99.372             382.201
1c   Obras en Puentes                                                        6.020 2.115                8.135
1d   Obras de Seguridad Vial                                                     0        0                 0
2    Bienes                                                                      0        0                 0
3    Servicios de Consultoría, Capacitación y costos operativos                469        0               469
4    Educación por costos unitarios                                          3.691        0             3.691
           TOTAL                                                           400.000 139.079            539.079


                                                35
   Vemos que el uso de los recursos financieros disponibles por el Banco se utilizaron en un 100
   %

   La utilización de los fondos muestra una altísima incidencia de los componentes físicos que
   sumados representan el 98,9% del total de los fondos desembolsados por el Banco.
   En cuanto al progreso anual de los desembolsos se realizó de acuerdo al siguiente cuadro.




                                                                  Monto en Millones de U$S
                                                       AÑO
                                                                   ANUAL         ACUMULADO
                                                       2009           63               63
                                                       2010           93              156
                                                       2011           79              235
                                                       2012           94              329
                                                       2013           71              400




   2.4         MONTOS DEL PROYECTO

En el siguiente cuadro mostramos los Montos por componentes a invertir estimados inicialmente
en el Programa y los resultantes al final.




                                              36
                                                            ESTIMACION EN EL APPRAISAL                     RESULTANTE DE ENMIENDAS                  RESULTANTE AL CIERRE DEL PROYECTO
                                                                               Financiamiento       Financiamiento del   Financiamiento Fondos                             Financiamiento
                                                      Financiamiento del                                                                            Financiamiento del
                                                                              Fondos Propios (En    Banco (En miles de     Propios (En miles de                           Fondos Propios (En
                                                    Banco (En miles de U$S)                                                                       Banco (En miles de U$S)
                                                                                miles de U$S)              U$S)                   U$S)                                      miles de U$S)
TOTAL CREMA                                                       360.000                921.396              387.500                  931.149                  389.821            950.591
20 Mallas CREMA                                                   359.750                126.396              387.500                  136.149                  389.821            136.964
Encuestas a los Usuarios                                              250                                                                                                 0
Mallas CREMA - A3 - Financiamiento Local                                                 795.000                                       795.000                                     813.627

TOTAL PUENTES                                                      16.000                  6.800                 7.800                   2.741                    6.019               2.115
Obras en 13 Puentes                                                15.800                  6.800                 7.800                   2.741                    6.019               2.115
Diseños de 20 Puentes                                                 200                                                                                             -

TOTAL SEGURIDAD VIAL                                               19.000                  7.000                 1.390                     457                         94               -
Obras en Corredores Pilotos
Obras Puntuales                                                    16.300                  7.000                 1.300                     457                            0             -
Educación                                                           1.200                                                                                                 0
Capacitación                                                        1.500                                           90                                                 94

TOTAL RENOVACION INSTITUCIONAL                                      5.000                    210                 3.310                     -                      4.066                 -
Capacitación Temas Medio Ambiente                                     400                                           15                                                    4
Asistencia Técnica para procesos internos DNV                           50                                          55                                                 51
Sistema de Comunicaciones entre Regiones DNV                          550                    210                   -                       -                          -                 -
Recursos Humanos en el Sector Vial                                  3.300                                        2.900                                            3.705
Asistencia Técnica para Estudios Estratégicos                         250                                          190                                                170
Gestión del Proyecto                                                  450                                          150                                                137


TOTAL PROYECTO                                                    400.000                935.406              400.000                  934.346                  400.000            952.706




      2.5 INDICADORES ECONOMICOS

          Con el objeto de analizar el desempeño del Proyecto luego de su ejecución, analizando
      los aspectos ligados al impacto de los resultados obtenidos y la eficiencia con que se gastaron
      los recursos económicos empleados en las Obras CREMA, se realizó una evaluación
      económica para la suma de todas las Mallas A2 contratadas en el Proyecto con la
      financiación del Banco.
          Se empleó la versión 3.0 del Modelo Administrador HDM-ADM obteniéndose los
      resultados que se pueden ver en el siguiente cuadro:


Montos en Millones de $AR
                                                                               M A L L A S
  AÑO           108B 132               206            208          307        308 314              401 A       403       405 A          503       508 510                 TOTAL
     1            -52,83      -25,03       -51,32       -40,82       -34,31   -56,42     -6,80       -60,34    -89,99        -35,86      -76,21    -5,52    -39,88        -575,33
     2             23,73       5,01        38,83         11,55         3,79     3,80     0,89          9,56      4,23          9,22       56,63     0,03      4,05         171,32
     3             34,06       7,11        66,72         14,98         4,92     4,82     1,36         11,67      6,64         12,93       89,79     0,05      6,40         261,45
     4             51,61       9,20        64,60         19,27         6,16     5,89     2,09         13,98      9,29         17,20      173,57     0,16      9,39         382,41
     5             93,86      11,39     144,85           24,38         7,39     6,82     3,20         16,50     11,68         23,81      103,28     0,42     13,17         460,75
     6             85,83      13,74        64,35         30,24         1,68     7,57     4,87         19,20     13,64         48,22        4,61     0,74     17,96         312,65
     7                0,28    29,37         4,02         36,83       12,69      8,25    18,12         22,07     15,34         53,07        5,46     1,08     23,94         230,52
     8                0,32    10,18         5,77         44,15       26,44      8,98     -0,15        25,05     10,38          0,07        6,12     1,39     74,85         213,55
     9                0,23    11,67         8,22         88,86       14,50      9,74     -0,16        28,16     20,18          0,00        6,65     1,68     23,44         213,17
    10                0,08    13,76        21,54         71,01       76,81     10,29     -0,31        30,66     22,57          -0,16       6,69     1,89      -3,52        251,31

                                                                                  37
       11       -0,35 18,46  18,06  -0,49                   9,47    10,70   -0,52          33,04       25,17         -0,40         16,14      1,90    -15,25     115,93
       12       -3,40 25,14 -11,28  -0,79                  22,80    11,23   -0,78          38,69       27,98         -0,76      -16,39        -2,87    -9,14      80,43
       13      -14,80  7,79 -14,98  -1,33                   9,67    11,89   -4,31          26,24       30,80         -2,03         10,53      4,60      0,48      64,55
       14      -12,16 22,76   2,37  -3,54                  25,81    12,67    0,08          31,93       33,92         -3,50         45,05      5,30      0,62     161,31
       15       18,64 -1,50  30,47  -5,99                  13,90    -2,62    0,09         130,22       37,06      -12,28           65,22      6,09      1,16     280,46
       16       27,69 -2,23  49,71  -8,55                  -7,71    18,14    0,13             7,18     40,12      -13,98           91,71      6,97      2,65     211,83
       17       40,35 -3,06  83,11 -34,49                 -12,33    19,35    0,34             1,54     78,39         0,77      134,42         7,97      4,82     321,18
       18       58,17 -5,06 153,83   1,01                 -13,64    20,66    0,60             1,47     19,98         1,36      100,61         9,08      8,20     356,27
       19     107,12  -8,44  27,18   1,23                  -3,27    22,29    0,88             1,37     38,79         2,47      135,78        10,33     14,09     349,82
       20       40,91 -8,11  25,32   2,42                   0,35    24,17    1,07             1,21     74,12         4,12      107,47        11,72     34,48     319,25
     VAN
          6
     ($x10 ) 175,94 52,25 283,84 118,57                   50,03 6,80        9,24      98,33          45,70       58,66 358,69                7,91 49,53         $1.315
     TIR             71%      39%     107% 49,10%          28%      13% 36%               29%          17%        46%          104%          20%       29%             46%


           La muestra produce un Valor Actual Neto, al 12% de tasa de descuento, de $AR 1.315
        Millones y una tasa de Rentabilidad Económica del 46% confirmándose que se produjo una
        Rentabilidad Económica aceptable para el subcomponente C.Re.Ma. el cual representó un 97
        % del total del PRESTAMO.

            En cuanto a los contratos que se financiaron con recursos económicos de fuente local en
        las Obras CREMA, la evaluación económica se hizo para una muestra de 15 Mallas A3
        contratadas en el Proyecto con financiación local, arrojando en siguiente resultado:



Montos en Millones de $AR
                                                                     M A L L A S
AÑO        111      114      120      130        140      209 C       211           212         401 B          531           541           603        630      632      634      TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                   -
 1         -38,90   -59,78   -56,23     -58,54   -92,73    -57,66      -70,03       -105,27          -60,55    -44,20        -67,70        -13,51     -99,92   46,31    -80,11   951,44
 2           7,21    22,61    16,47     12,13     17,32      1,59       28,41        21,27           16,45      3,04          11,32         1,52       6,11     5,96    12,53    183,94
 3          11,87    28,65    21,26     15,35     24,86      3,54       34,67        32,18           20,54      4,11          13,19         1,85       7,80     7,68    16,27    243,82
 4          17,54    35,51    26,82     19,02     34,39      6,37       42,90        44,29           25,07      5,39          15,55         2,26       9,61     9,58    20,15    314,45
 5          24,42    45,81    32,84     28,37     46,51      9,73       53,89        57,94           29,95      6,87          18,40         2,71      11,48    21,01    90,71    480,64
 6          32,70    60,92    39,39     26,56     61,54     13,64       69,02        73,96           35,13      8,42          21,79         3,19      13,45    36,22     4,77    500,70
 7          42,58    79,51    46,65     69,36    154,78     18,17       90,47        92,77           40,47      7,21          25,52         3,75      34,76    20,43     5,44    731,87
 8          54,25   181,74    54,67     61,27     -3,79     23,41      179,89       114,76           46,06     10,23          29,50         4,35       1,83    -1,71     6,15    762,61
 9          67,85    55,75    63,77     10,01     -6,66     29,19       40,69       157,10           51,86     11,78          33,69         6,72      77,12    -2,19    40,32    637,00
10         105,93    -5,92   108,10      3,22    -10,34     56,85      115,39       134,36           57,38     13,50          37,80         4,56       -2,03   -5,59     -0,49   612,72
                                                                                                                                                                   -
11          69,06    -8,21    22,44      3,11    -37,18     24,55       -4,34       170,39           62,37     20,52          41,73        19,97       7,52    16,69     -0,67   374,57
12          14,74   -10,41    33,40     24,20      0,60     26,78       -7,82        76,97           67,64     23,10          62,68         -0,14      8,28     0,14     -1,32   318,84
13          24,23   -17,50    26,11     12,45      0,71     23,19      -12,75        13,49           80,39     34,04          33,23         -0,28      8,96     0,16     -2,20   224,23
14          70,46   -33,87    67,77     52,09      0,89     47,00      -18,49        29,67           45,85     42,74          49,91         -1,09      9,68     0,20     -3,17   359,64
15          -0,73    16,88    80,50      3,70      1,53     -0,26      -42,59        68,84           87,60     17,28          16,60         -2,28      2,32     0,31    -23,58   226,12

                                                                      38
16      -0,76   26,90   26,70     0,51     4,50    -0,19    -26,49   113,08     40,00   18,92    29,06   -0,26    7,05   0,49    -8,88   230,63
17      -0,84   41,87    6,11     -4,30    7,96    -0,17     7,18      -1,05    10,50   20,63    42,29   -1,69    3,39   0,90    3,63    136,41
18      -0,95   74,39    8,74     9,85     9,66    -0,12    13,26      -0,88    16,03   43,70     9,64    0,33   18,85   1,32    4,90    208,72
19      -1,38   35,38   11,95     -0,67   11,93    0,15     23,83      -1,93    17,29    3,55    27,22    0,43   70,86   2,25    6,38    207,24
20      -2,54   49,53   16,03    18,45    13,58    0,43     45,35      -2,43    15,69   14,83    30,50    0,60   50,86   3,04    8,09    262,01

VAN
($x1   183,0    233,5   216,9
  6
 0)        8        7       3   105,96    97,35   49,39    258,93    381,66    214,32   43,36   117,07   8,14    11,88   8,42   35,13    $1.965
                                                                                                                          17
TIR    50%      60%     49%     37%       34%     21%      61%       46%       44%      21%     29%      21%     14%      %     24%        37%



          La muestra produce un Valor Actual Neto, al 12% de tasa de descuento, de $AR 1.965
       Millones y una tasa de Rentabilidad Económica del 37% confirmándose la Rentabilidad
       Económica aceptable para el subcomponente C.Re.Ma con financiamiento local.



       2.6 RESUMEN DEL CUMPLIMIENTO DE LAS METAS

            En el siguiente cuadro se resumen las Metas originalmente propuestas, las establecidas
            durante la revisión de Medio Término y la Situación Final alcanzada.




                                                           39
3   COMENTARIO FINAL.

        Lo hasta aquí expuesto resume por un lado el objetivo y los alcances del Proyecto y por
    otro los logros alcanzados y su comparación con lo previsto.

        Han existido factores externos e internos al Proyecto que lo han afectado. Entre los
    factores externos podemos mencionar como el más importante, el aumento de los costos de la
    obra vial, reflejado en el sistema de redeterminación de precios, y que trae siempre una
    respuesta del mercado que eleva los costos previstos, lo cual incide negativamente en el
    alcance de las metas físicas propuestas. En cuanto al factor interno que nos afectó, este fue el
    hecho de que durante el año 2011, de acuerdo a los resultados de la revisión del Proyecto a
    mediano plazo, resultó que por activación de las políticas de salvaguardas no contempladas
    en el Proyecto original, se retrasó el desarrollo de las contrataciones de las Mallas CREMA,
    afectando exclusivamente a aquellas financiadas con fondos locales, dado que su revisión y

                                                40
aprobación por parte del Banco estuvo temporalmente suspendida hasta que fuera
formalizada la aprobación de la 1ra Enmienda al Proyecto.

     Los temas de Seguridad Vial, no llegaron a desarrollarse en la medida de lo esperado. En
este aspecto podemos señalar en primer lugar a las obras en los Corredores de Seguridad Vial
que, como ya se mencionó, los proyectos no estuvieron concretados a tiempo para
implementar las obras, además de que por el volumen de los mismos resultaron de un costo
muy elevado para los presupuestos con que se contaba. En cuanto a las obras puntuales
proyectadas, fracasaron los llamados a licitación en su primer intento, y al ser nuevamente
licitadas, los contratos fueron tardíamente iniciados para su financiación dentro del Préstamo,
continuándose actualmente con financiación local.

    En cuanto a la Reforma Institucional de la DNV consideramos que se ha logrado avances
muy importantes en el Fortalecimiento de la Gestión Ambiental y en el funcionamiento de las
Escuelas Técnicas de la DNV.
    En efecto, se consolidó el funcionamiento de la División Gestión Ambiental a partir de su
interacción con el Proyecto financiado con el Banco y se avanzó en la difusión del Manual de
Gestión Ambiental al ámbito de todos los Distritos de la DNV en todo el país, haciéndolo
extensivo a otros organismos gubernamentales. En cuanto a las Escuelas aparte de haber
logrado superar los objetivos físicos, consideramos como muy valiosa la intervención del
Banco, tanto en lo que respecta a los fondos del Préstamo utilizados en la actividad, como el
aporte al desarrollo de la estructura educativa en las Escuelas, llevado a cabo por el
especialista del Banco y los consultores contratados.

    Por último queremos destacar que consideramos exitoso el desarrollo del Préstamo en
cuanto a los objetivos conseguidos y el uso de los fondos disponibles. Todo esto merced al
desempeño del Banco, en especial a los funcionarios responsables de las supervisiones, los
funcionarios de la DNV y los integrantes de la Unidad Coordinadora, quienes pusieron su
empeño y conocimientos para salvar las dificultades que se presentaron a lo largo de la
implementación del Proyecto.




                                            41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                    42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



   1. The World Bank: Project Appraisal Document Report 28649, National Highway Asset
      Management Project, June 2004 (Phase 1).
   2. The World Bank: Project Appraisal Document National Highway Asset Management
      Project, June 2007 (Phase 2)
   3. The World Bank: Loan Agreement (Loan 7473-AR); June 2008
   4. The World Bank: Country Assistance Strategy (with the Government of Argentina) 2006
   5. The World Bank: Estrategia de Alianza con la Republica Argentina, Report No. 48476,
      May 2009
   6. The World Bank: Aide memoires from 2010 to 2013
   7. The World Bank: Implementation Completion and Results Report (APL1), 2011
   8. Vialidad Nacional: Informe de Gestion 2008-2010
   9. Ministerio de Planificacion Federal: Escuelas Viales de Vialidad Nacional (2012)
   10. Vialidad Nacional – Information received from the Project Coordination Unit regarding:
       Roughness values (historic) and for 2011 and 2012, DNV historic annual budgets, Project
       Total Costs and Outputs by Component, HDM Economic Evaluation… October 2013
   11. The World Bank: Transport Paper 36, September 2011 “Performance-Based Road
       Contracts. (CREMA). A Review of Fifteen Years’ Experience. 1996-2010” by M.
       Marcela Silva and Gerard Liautaud




                                             43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 35301
                                               70 °                                                            B OL I VI A                                                                                                                     60 °                                                                                    55 °                                      MARCH 2007



                                                                                                                                                                               Pocitos
                                                                                                                                      La Cuiaca
                                                                                                                                                                                86
                                                                                                                                               Aguas
                                                                                                                                               Blancas                    34

                                                                                                        JUJUY                                 San Ramon
                                                                                                                                         9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARAGUAY
                                                                                                               San Salvador
                                                                                                                                                          34
                                                                                                                                                                                                81
                                                                                                                                                                                                              FO                      Rio
                                                                                                                   de Jujuy                                                                                                  R
                                                                                         Cauchari                                                                                                                                  M                        Pil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O            86                   ma
                                                                                                  S.A. de los
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SA                              yo
                                                                                                    Cobres
                                                                                                                                                        S A L T A                                                     Las Lomitas




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ná
                                                                                                                                              Salta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Para
                                                                                                               40N                                                  Olleros                                                                               Cmte. Fontana
                                                                                                                                         El Tunal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Asunción                                                                      25 °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Clorinda
  25 °                                                                                                                            68                34                                                                                                               81
                                                                                                                                      Rosario                                                                          CHACO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ri o
                                                                                                                                                                                                16                                                                                                                                               Pt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Las                                                                                                                  Iguazú
                                                                                                         Cafayate                                                                                                      Frentones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             95                  Formosa
                                                                                                                                                                                      Campo Gallo                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12               Bernardo de Irigoyen
                                                                                                                                 TUCUMAN
                                                                             CATAMARCA                                                Tucumán                         SANTIAGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pres. R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Saenz Peña
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B R A Z I L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                                         DEL                                                                      16                                                                                          Vicente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Posadas              I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Resistencia                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                         38
                                                                                                                                                    9          34      ESTERO                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                       40N                                                          Santiago                                  89                                   89
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Corrientes                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                    del Estero                                                     Santa                                                           118
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sylvina                                                                              San José




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  araná
                                                                                                                                                         64
                                                                              Tinogasta                  Catamarca                                                                                                      95
                                                                                                                                                         Lavalle
                                                                         L A Alpasinche                                                                                                          Añatuya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SANTA                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CORRIENTES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Rio P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Santo Tomé
                                                                         RIOJA                                                                     157                9                         34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P. Fernandez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14
                                                                                                               38
                                                                                  Chilecito                                                                                                           Tostado                    98                                                                            Yapeyú
                                                                                                               La Rioja                                                                                                                                                                  119 123
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Paso de los Libres
                                                                                      76          74                                                                            Villa de María
                                                                                                                                                                                                                San                                         12
75°




                                                                                40N          Patquía                                                           60         9                                   Cristobal
                                                                                         150                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30 °
                                                                                                    Chamical                                                                                                                                                                   127
 30 °                                                                           Jachal
                                                         P. del
                                                       Agua Negro                                                        79 77                                 38                                                                                                              Sauce de Luna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rafaela
                                                              S A N J U A NChepes                                                                  Córdoba                                           Devoto                              Santa                                              Concordia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19                      Fé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ENTRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ay
                                                                San Juan
                                                                                                  141                                                                                                                     Paraná




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Urugu
                                                                                                                                                     Dolores                                                                                                                        14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Villaguay
                                                                                            20       La
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nogoyá




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50°
                                                                                                   Tranca             Quines                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                   40N
                                                                                            142
                                                                                                                                                                                         Villa María
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gral.Galarzo             RIOS                     Concepción del Uruguay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R io
                                                                                            El Alpero                                           148                       158                                                          Rosario
                                               Las Cuevas                                                     147
                                                                                                                                                          Río
                                                                                                                                  San
                                                                                  Mendoza                                         Luis
                                                                                                                                                         Cuarto
                                                                                                                                                                    CORDOBA                                   Chabas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nicolás
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12

                                                                    Agrelo
                                                                             40S
                                                                                                                                                                                        8                                    178
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   U RU GU A Y
                                          Santiago                                                                          Mercedes                                                                                                               9
              OCEAN




                                                                      MENDOZA                                  146         SAN
                                                                                                                                                                     La Cautiva                        33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Campana
                                                                                Pareditas                                                                                                                                             Arrecifes
                                                                                                                           LUIS                                     35                               Rufino
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Buenos Aires
                                                                                                              Rio




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Junín
                                                                          San Rafael                                                                                                  Gral.                                                                                                    La Plata           Montevideo
                                                                                                    Gr. Alvear                       Nva. Galia                                                             188
                                                                                                                                                                                     Villegas
                                                                            40S                                                  188                                     Realicó
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                           226                                          205                                                                                                                            35 °
                                                                          El Sosneado                                                                                                                                                                                                                    de la
                                                                                                                    S a la d o




                                                                                                        143                                                                                                            Pehuajo                                                             2
  35 °                                                                    Malargüe                                                       Arizona                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Plata
                                              E




                                                                    145                                                                                                                                                Bolívar
                                                                                                  Sta. Isabel                                Telén                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Azul
                                             L




                                                                                                                                              Santa Rosa                                               33
              PA C I F I C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Maipú
                                                                                                                             L A PA M PA                                                                       BUENOS
                                                       Barrancas                                        151
                                                                                                                                                                                                                AIRES
                                            I




                                                                                                                                                    Gral. Acha
                                                                                                                                  143
                                                                                                         Puelén                   El Carancho
                                           H




                                                                                                                                                                                   35
                                                                                                                                                   152                                                                                                                                            Mar del Plata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Très Arroyos
                                                             NEUQUÉN                                                                                                      154                                Bahia Blanca                                   228                Quequén
                                           C




                                                                                                                                                           Rio       La
                                                                                                                                                                    Adela                       22
                                                                                                       Neuquén
                                                        242         22                                              22
                                                                                                                                               Choele
                                                                                                                                               Choel                                 Col
                                                                                                                                                                                            ora
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A T L A N T I C
                                                              Zapala                                                             Rio Ne                                                           do
                                                                                                                                        gro
                                                                    40S
                                                                                                              RÍO                                                   251
                                                                                237                                                                                                                    3
                                                       Collón                                                                                                         Gr. Conesa
                                                       Curá
                                                                                                        NEGRO                                                                  250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40 °
                                                                                      Sierra Colorada
  40 °                                                234
                                                                                                                                                                                  Viedma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O C E A N
                                                               Bariloche


                                                                                Ing. Jacobacci                                   Sierra Grande                            Gulf of
                                                       258      40S                                                                                                  San Martin

                                                                                                                                                               3


                                                                                                                                         Puerto Madryn
                                                                Esquel                                                                          Trelew

                                                                                                                                              25
                                                                                                                                                                     Rawson                                                                                                                 ARGENTINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WORLD BANK ROAD PROJECTS
                                                                                                            but
                                                                                                    Rio Chu

                                                                                      CHUBUT
                                                                          40S                                                                                                                                                 ROADS REHABILITATED AND MAINTAINED UNDER NATIONAL HIGHWAY
                                                                                                                             ico




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ASSET MANAGEMENT PROJECT — CREMA SYSTEM — LOAN 7242
                                                                                                                         Ch




                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                     o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 45 °
                                                                                                                Ri                                                                                                            ROADS REHABILITATED AND MAINTAINED UNDER
                                                                                                       Sarmiento                                                                                                              PROVINCIAL ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT — LOAN 7301
  45 °                                                                             Rio Moyo
                                                                                                                                  Comodoro Rivadavia
                                                                                                   26
                                                                                                                                          Gulf of                                                                             ROADS REHABILITATED AND MAINTAINED UNDER
                                                                                                                                         San Jorge                                                                            CÓRDOBA PROVINCIAL ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT — LOAN 7398
                                                                                           Las Heras
                                                                                       Rio              Des
                                                                                                              ead                        Fitz Roy                                                                             ROADS REHABILITATED UNDER BUENOS AIRES INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                                                    o                                                                                                         PROJECT — LOAN 7268
                                                                                                                                               281
                                                                                                                                                               Pto. Deseado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROADS IMPROVED BY SANTA FE ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT — LOAN 7429
                                                                                           S A N TA
                                                                                Las Horquetas                                    3

                                                                                             CRUZ
                                                                                                            El Salado


                                                                                            288
80°




                                                                                Très Lagos
                                                                                                a C ruz
                                                                                  Rio S     ant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50 °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FALKLAND ISLANDS
                                                                                40S
  50 °                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (ISLAS MALVINAS)
                                                                                                        3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                    28 de                      Río Gallegos
                                                                                  Noviembre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A DISPUTE CONCERNING SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ISLANDS EXISTS BETWEEN ARGENTINA WHICH CLAIMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THIS SOVEREIGNTY AND THE U.K. WHICH ADMINISTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THE ISLANDS.                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                           TIERRA                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                         DEL FUEGO                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                     3


         This map was produced by
         the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                   Ushuaia
         World Bank. The boundaries,
         colors, denominations and
         any other information shown
         on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                                            250                              500                           750            55 °
         the part of The World Bank
         Group, any judgment on the
         legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KILOMETERS
  55 °   or any endorsement or
         acceptance of such
         boundaries.
                               80 °                          75 °                                                   70 °                                                              65 °                                                     60 °                                                       55 °                                     50 °                                45 °
                                                     70°
                                                                                                                    BOLIVIA                                                                                                                                   60°                                                                                     55°


                                                                                                               La Cuiaca                                                                 Pocitos
                                                                                                                                                                                           86
                                                                                                                                                 Aguas
                                                                                                                                       9


                                                                                                           JUJUY
                                                                                                                                                Blancas                             34

                                                                                                                                                                                     406
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARAGUAY
                                                                                                                                                                          50

                                                                                                                                       52         432
                                                                                                                                                                               San Ramon
                                                                                                                                                                                                              81
                                                                                                                                                                     34
                                                                                                                         San Salvador                                                                                                                Rio
                                                                                                                             de Jujuy                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                             Cauchari                                                                434                                                                       RM                                 Pil
                                                                                                                 51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O            86                   co
                                                                                                    S.A. de los                                                                                                                                            SA                                ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  yo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ná
                                                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                       Cobres                          51                                      SALTA                                         Las Lomitas




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Para
                                                                                                                                                  Salta                                                                                                                    95
                                                                                                                                                                                Olleros                                                               Cmte.
                                                                                                                         40N
                                                                                                                                       El Tunal                                                                                                                                                                       Asunción                                                           25°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fontana                                    Clorinda
             25°                                                                                                              401B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pt.
                                                                                                                                       68
                                                                                                                                                           34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHACO                                  505               81           11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Iguazú
                                                                                                                          401A                                                                                16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Las
                                                                                                              Cafayate                             9                                                                                           95        Formosa                                                                                                     101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Frentones                                                                                                             12              Bernardo de
                                                                                                                               TUCUMÁN                                                   Campo Gallo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pres. R.                                                                                                                   Irigoyen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                       Tucumán                                                                                  Saenz Peña
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14
                                                                                            CATAMARCA                                                                                    SANTIAGO                                        536                                                                                                               N         539
                                                                                                                                                             431
                                                                                                                                       437                                                  DEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IO        San
                                                                                                                                                           9              34                                                                             Resistencia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Corrientes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Posadas          IS             Vicente
                                                                                        60                    40N
                                                                                                                                             38
                                                                                                                                                                                          ESTERO 89                                                                89                                                                          M 504
                                                                                                                                                   157                         Santiago                                                                                                                                   12     120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       105
                                                                                                                                                                               del Estero                         405A                          Santa                                         12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             San José
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               118
                                                                                 Tinogasta                                441                                       64                                                                          Sylvina




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Paraná
                                                                                                                     Catamarca                                  Lavalle                         34            Añatuya                95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CORRIENTES                           503
                                                                                    Alpasinche                 60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P. Fernandez                     Santo Tomé
                                                                                      LA RIOJA                                                      157                                                                                  209C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                         38            60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       98                                                                                     507          14
                                                                                      Chilecito                75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tostado                      98          Vera                                                                Yapeyú
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       119 123
                                                                                                                         La Rioja                                                                                                                                                12

                                                                                             76          74                                 79
                                                                                                                                                                                               Villa de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SANTA                                                      532                    Paso de los Libres
                                                                                       40N         Patquía                                                                                     María                               San   FÉ
           75°




                                                                                                                                                                          60         9
                                                                          Jachal                                                                                                                                       Cristobal                                                                         506                                                                             30°
                                                                                               150
                                                                                                         Chamical                                                                                                                                                                502
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BRAZIL
                                                                         150                                                           38                                                                                                                11                                   127
             30°                                                                                                                                                                                                                    34                                                                   14
                                                                   P. del                                                      79
                                                                                                                                                                          38                                                                                               12                Sauce de Luna
                                                                   Agua Negro                                                              77                                                                                   Rafaela              Santa
                                                                         SAN JUAN
                                                                                                          Chepes
                                                                                                                                       311             Córdoba                                  19
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Devoto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19                    Fé    ENTRE                                   Concordia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIOS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ay
                                                                         San Juan                                                                           Dolores
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18
                                                                                                                                                                                                      230                                        533 18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Urugu
                                                                                                         141
                                                                                                                                                 307                                       9                                              Paraná Villaguay 510 14
                                                                                                          La                                                                                                                                                130
                                                                                                          TrancaQuines
                                                                                                   20                                             20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50 °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           173     12    Nogoyá                                        Concepción
                                                                                        40N        142                                                                                               Villa María                            Gral. Galarzo                                              del Uruguay
                                                                                                                               146                                                                                             9
                                                                                330                                                                        36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rio
                                                    Las Cuevas            7                        El                147                                  Río
                                                                                                                                                                                     158                                                       Rosario
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          205
                         OCEAN




                                                                                                   Alpero                               San            Cuarto                       CORDOBA                                                                                        12              136

                                                                         Agrelo Mendoza                          7
                                                                                                                                        Luis                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Chabas           178
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Nicolás
                                                                                                                                                                                212
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     URUGUAY
                                                                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12
                                          Santiago                                    40S                                  Mercedes
                                                                                                                                                                                 La Cautiva
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      188
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9        Campana
                                                                               MENDOZA                              305                SAN                                7                                         33
                                                                   Pareditas                                                                                                                                                                   Arrecifes
                                                                                        143
                                                                                                               146                     LUIS                                    35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Buenos Aires
                                                                                                                                                Nva.                                                               Rufino                           Junín         7
                                                                          San Rafael                           Gr.                                                                            Gral.                                                                                                           La Plata
                                                                                                                              Rio




                                                                                                               Alvear
                                                                                                                                                Galia                                      Villegas                      188                                                                                                      Montevideo
                                                                                  144                                                  188
                                                                                                                                                                                    Realicó                              226                         5                                                                 Rio                                                               35°
                                                                                El Sosneado
                                                                                                                                    Salado




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
             35°
                                                                                                               143                              Arizona                                                            201B              Pehuajo                      205                                                 de la
                                                                                 Malargüe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Plata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             201A                                                 3
                         PACIFIC




                                                                          40S
                                                                                                    Sta. Isabel                                 Telén                                                    5                          Bolívar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Azul
                                                                                                                 151
                                                                                                                                                   Santa Rosa                                                                                                                                                 Maipú
                                                                                                         132                           LA PAMPA                                                                                                BUENOS
                                                           Barrancas                                                                              Gral. Acha                                                            33
                                                                                                          Puelén                       143
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AIRES                                    226
                                                                                                                               El Carancho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                         35                                                                                                      Mar del Plata
                                                                       NEUQUÉN
                                                                                                                                                       152
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Très Arroyos                    211
                                         CHILE                                                                                                             Ri                        154
                                                                                                         151                                                    o                                                  206 Bahia Blanca                                        228
                                                                                                                                                                                 La                                                                                                            Quequén
                                                                                                                                                                                                             22
                                                                   242                                        Neuquén                             Choele                      Adela
                                                                                             111                                                   Choel                                        Co
                                                                                        22                                    22                                                                     lor
                                                                  Zapala                                                           Rio Neg                                          108B                   ado
                                                                                                                                           r           o                       251
                                                                                              106
                                                           Collón         40S          237                                RÍO                                       250                                            3
                                                            Curá                                                                                                                    Gr. Conesa
                                                                                                     Sierra
                                                                                                                         NEGRO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40°
                                                           133                                                                                                                           250                           208
                                                                                                  Colorada                             23
                                                                                                                                                                                120
             40°                                            234
                                                                                                                                                                                           Viedma
                                                             231
                                                                       Bariloche                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A T L A N T I C
                                                                                                                                                 Sierra
                                                                    114                                                                                                            Gulf of
                                                             40S       1S40            Ing. Jacobacci                                           Grande
                                                                                                                                                                                 San Martin                                                                                                                     O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                                          3


                                                                 113                          Ri
                                                                                                                                       Puerto Madryn
                                                                         Esquel                                                               Trelew
                                                                                               o
                                                                                                   Ch




                                                                                                                                                                                Rawson
                                                                                                     ub
                                                                                                        ut




                                                                                632                                 25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A R GE N T I N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A PL 2 NAT IONAL HIG HWAYS
                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                 40S               CHUBUT
                                                                                                                                   ico
                                                                                                                               Ch




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A ND A S S E T MANAG EMENT P ROJECT                                                                                                                          45°
                                                                                                                              o




                                                                                                                                                107A
                                                                                                                         Ri




                                                                                            Rio                Sarmiento
             45°                                                                            Moyo
                                                                                260                                                    Comodoro Rivadavia                                                                                                                                          C.RE.MA. NETWORKS TO BE FINANCED
                                                                                                         26
                                                                                                                107B                                                                                                                                                                               BY LOAN AND COUNTERPART FUNDS
                                                                                                                                                  Gulf of
                                                                                             Las Heras                                           San Jorge                                                                                                                                         C.RE.MA. NETWORKS TO BE FINANCED
                                                                                                          Rio D                                 Fitz Roy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BY COUNTERPART FUNDS
                                                                                                                es       ead
                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                   281                                                                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                   SANTA                                                                  Pto. Deseado
                                                                                                    CRUZ                                                                                                                                                                                           DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                        Las Horquetas                                  3                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
                                                                                                               El Salado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                                   288                                                                                                                                                                                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
           80°




                                                                                       Très Lagos
                                                                                                Cruz                                                                                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                      Rio Santa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50°

             50°                                                                       40S                      3




                                                                                        28 de
                                                                                        Noviembre                3       Río Gallegos


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FALKLAND ISLANDS (ISLAS MALVINAS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A DISPUTE CONCERNING SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ISLANDS EXISTS BETWEEN ARGENTINA WHICH CLAIMS
                                                                                                                                                  603                                                                                     THIS SOVEREIGNTY AND THE U.K. WHICH ADMINISTERS
                                                                                                                                                                      TIERRA                                                                                THE ISLANDS.
                                                                                                                                                                    DEL FUEGO
                     0             125        250                                                                                                           3


                             KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                   Ushuaia

                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             55°
                   Bank. The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 35505




                   information shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The
             55°   World Bank Group, any judgment on the legal status of any
MAY 2007




                   territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                   80°                              75°                                                   70°                                                                   65°                                                           60°                                                      55°                                           50°                 45°
