Documentof
The World Bank
FOR OmaCAL uSE ONLY
Rup,t No.  P-6226-LSO
MEMORANDUM AND kECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT To US$11 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO
FOR THE PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
APRIL 25, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6226 LSO
Type: PR
This docment has a resticted distribution and any be used by recpients only in the perfomance of
dti official dudes. Its contens may not otherwise be disclose widhu World Bank asthorizadoon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Maloti (M) singular is loti
US$1.00 = M3.19 (June 1993)
M1.00 = US$0.31
ABBREVIATIONS
APDF         -      African Project Development Facility
BAPS         -      Business Advisory and Promotion Service
BEDCO        -      Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
GDP          -      Gross domestic product
GNP          -      Gross national product
IADP         -      Industrial and Agroindustries Development Project
IAPSO        -      Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office
IDA          -      International Development Association
IPC          -      International Finance Corporation
IPC          -      Investment Promotion Center
LCCI         -      Lesotho Chamber of Commerce and Industry
LHDA         -      Lesotho Highlands Development Authority
LHWP         -      Lesotho Highlands Water Project
LIH          -      Lesotho Investment Holdings
LNDC         -      Lesotho National Development Corporation
SEOR         -      Strategic Economic Options Report
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
April 25 - March 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
GOVERNMIENT OF LESOTHO
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Government of Lesotho
Beneficiaries:      Private enterprises, Privatization Unit, Ministry of Finance, Ministry
of Trade and Industry, Ministry of Employment, Ministry of Home
Affairs, Ministry of Law and Constitutional Affairs and Ministry of
Justice, legal community, Central Bank of Lesotho, recipients of
parastatal services, Lesotho Chamber of Commerce, Lesotho National
Development Corporation
Amount:             SDR 7.9 million (US$11 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms, with forty years maturity
Objectives:         The project's objective is to promote expansion of the private sector as
the leading element in the government's development strategy. This
will be achieved through (a) privatization of most existing parastatals,
(b) strengthening institutions that support the indigenous and foreign
private sector, and (c) reviewing the country's development strategy
and key elements of the investment environment to make them
consistent with promoting labor-intensive industries.
ComRonents:         The project consists of (a) institutional support to implement the
government's strategy of promoting privatization and development of
the private sector, (b) an implementation fund to finance activities
related to legal reform and to support development of the private
sector.
Funancirg Plan:     (millions of U.S. dollars)
Agency            Local       Foreign        Total
IDA                1.0         10.0          11.0
Government         1.4          0.0           1.4
Total              2.4         10.0          12.4
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable
Staff AppaM
Report:             Not applicable
Poverb Categora:   Not applicable
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in  Peformn  of thdr
official duties. Its conten may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autoizaton.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO FOR THE
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Government of Lesotho for SDR million, the equivalent of US$11 million, on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of forty years, including ten years of grace, to help finance a technical
assistance project that would assist the government in implementing its privatization and private sector
development strategy. A Country Assistance Strategy follows below. The last discussion by the Board
of the Country Assistance Strategy was on July 9, 1991, and the last PFP discussion was on June 11,
1992.
PART I: COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.    Lesotho is at a crucial juncture of its political and economic development. With the return to
democracy in 1993 after 23 years of authoritarian rule, and rapid change in South Africa, Lesotho has
the opportunity to re-evaluate the perspectives of the past and to reorient its development path toward
greater economic integration with South Africa and the region. In terms of macroeconomic management,
Lesotho has been an above-average performer in sub-Saharan Africa and has successfully corrected the
fiscal imbalances of the 1980s. It can look forward to substantial financial flows from the sale of water
resources to South Africa under the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP), and has made important
progress in the delivery of social services to its population. However, these advances have been marred
in the past few years by declining Government performance in implementing agreed structural reforms.
On the political front, the new democratic government has had problems with insubordination in the ranks
of the defense force over pay and political disaffection, and has had to request international mediation
to deal with two short-lived mutinies. The country also needs to renew its commitment to capturing the
benefits of LHWP for equitable development. The emerging opportunities and problems have prompted
the Bank to make future lending dependent on consolidation of its portfolio and improvements in
implementation capacity, as well as a focussed effort by Lesotho to develop medium-term economic
strategies.
A. RECENT ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
Hstorical Setting
3.    Lesotho's emergence as a labor reserve for South Africa closely followed the general pattern of
the creation of native reserves in the Southern African region. In the mid-19th century European settler
regimes effectively lowered the potential profits in a free African farming sector to force peasants into
farm or industrial labor. In the case of the Basotho, such measures included the seizing of most of its
arable land, confining independent Basotho farming to a remote and mountainous area that was to become
the independent state of Lesotho, the adoption of protectionist measures against agricultural exports from
Lesotho and the imposition of a hut tax on independently farming Basotho households. British colonial
rule provided the Basotho some protection against the predations of the neighboring Boer republic of the
Orange Free State. However, colonial expectations were that Lesotho would eventually be incorporated
into South Africa and there was little development of the country's productive base.



2
4.    During the 20th century, Lesotho's dependence on the South African economy cast it in the role
of exporter of labor and exposed it to the long-term consequences of South Africa's economic policies.
First, the failure of the inward-looking and capital-intensive South African econon;y to use its plentiful
factor--labor--efficiently has meant a general decline of employment opportunities, with negative
consequences for Lesotho given its historic dependence on labor migration. Second, the high degree of
protection granted to white industry-both parastatal as well as private-against international and domestic
competition has stifled the development of a diversified productive base in Lesotho oriented towards sup-
plying the South African markets. Third, the inefficiencies associated with the overly capital-intensive
and uncompetitive production of basic consumer goods and services in South Africa have hurt Basotho
consumers in general and the poor in particular. Fourth, the labor recruitmnent policies followed by the
South African mines have had devastating effects on family structure in thte recruitment areas, !ncluding
Lesotho-one of the most important migrant contract labor suppliers to the mines.
5.    Lesotho's response to these policies consisted of the adoption of an import substitution strategy
for basic consumer goods and services--introduced after Lesotho's independence from Britain in 1966.
A key element of that strategy was the creation of parastatals and public companies in those areas where
the Government's perception was that a domestic private sector was virtually non-existent, or that
emerging private entrepreneurs would not be able to compete against the large-scale South African
enterprises. Hence, public investment in the parastatal sector-strongly supported by donors, including
the World Bank-dominated economic activity througk muchi of the 1970s and 1980s. However, by the
mid 1980s it became clear that parastatal and public company investments had been unable to generate
sustained economic growth or increase the labor-absorptive capacity of the economy. Parastatal losses
became a drain on the Government's resources, while crowding out private investment and unnecessarily
raising consumer prices for the goods and services produced. In parallel, political tension mounted be-
tween Pretoria and Lesotho, culminating in a military coup in Lesotho in January 1986.
6.    While the new military regime quickly established warmer relations with South Africa, and in
October 1986 signed the Treaty which started the implementation of phase IA of the Lesotho Highlands
Water Project, it was also responsible for a further deterioration in the fiscal balance because of an impru-
dent rise in military expenditures. By 1987/88, the deficit reached 20 percent of GDP, or 10 percent of
GNP. (Lesotho's GNP is about twice the size of its GDP due to the migrant workers remittances which
are included in the GNP estimate, but excluded from GDP.) However, increased donor presence in
Lesotho--especially after the imposition of financial sanctions against South Africa in 1985--and the
mounting influence of a reformist group of technocrats within the government, led to the adoption of a
structural adjustment program supported by funding by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and six
successive Policy Framework Papers prepared with the help of the Bank and the IMF.
Recent economic performance (1988-1993)
7.    The adjustment program was triggered by the fiscal imbalance, but it was also designed to find
ways of reducing the macroeconomic vulnerability of Lesotho to exogenous shocks and to set up a macro
and policy framework which would enable private sector development and the productive use of Lesotho's
substantial revenues from the LHWP. While the external balance was threatened by the structural decline
of migrant workers' remittances and of SACU revenues, the scope for corrective exchange rate and
monetary policies was limited given Lesotho's membership in the customs and monetary unions'. The
only significant short-term means for correcting the imbalance involved the reduction of public
expenditures and increases in revenue. This was the route taken by the govermnent after 1988/89 in a
I otwana, Lesotho, Swaziland and Namibia are members with South Africa of the Southern African Customs Union.
Except for Botswana, the countries are also members of a Common Monetary Area.



3
number of successive structural adjustment programs-SAP for 1988/89-1990/91 of SDR million 3.0, 4.5
and 3.0, respectively, and ESAF for 1991/92-1993/94 of SDR million 4.5, 6.0 and 7.6, respectively.
8.    The stabilization measures proved to be extremely successfid. The fiscal deficit, after grants, of
10.3 percent of GNP in 1987/88 was reversed into a surplus of 2.2 percent of GNP by 1992/93. (Before
grants, a fiscal deficit of 14.3 percent became a surplus of 1.9 percent). The rate of inflation, currently
estimated at less than 12 percent, is decelerating, mirroring the trend in South Africa. Finally, the
external current account deficit was reduced from 7 percent of GNP to 2.2 percent, and foreign exchange
reserves were built up from less than 6 weeks to over 12 weeks of imports. Overall balance of payments
went from a deficit of 3.9 million SDR in 1987/88 to a surplus of 43.1 million SDR in 1992/93.
9.    Other positive developments included the impressive performance of manufacturing exports,
caused by the inflows of foreign private investment of East Asian or South African origin attracted by
the improvement in the macroeconomic framework, intensive investment promotion efforts in the early
1990s, the country's attractive labor wage rates and productivity, and preferential access to export
markets through the Lome Convention and the General System of Preferences applicable to low income
countries. In 1992, total exports increased by 67 percent in nominal terms, caused by a sharp rise in
textiles, garments, footwear and light manufactures, which now account for over 80 percent of total ex-
ports and provide employment for about 11,000 people. This strengthened a trend established in the 1980s
when exports-mainly driven by textiles and footwear-increased by 30 percent per year, although from
a very small base. In 1993, exports slowed down because of quotas imposed on Lesotho's garment in-
dustry, but assuming quotas are relaxed in the near future, overall exports are expected to grow at 15
percent per year in the coming years, mainly through growth from manufacturing exports.
10.   However, during the period of stabilization, economic growth was uneven and management of
structural reforms slipped considerably, following a general trend of declining performance of the civil
service. Additionally, severe drought conditions in the region contributed to a fall in real GDP growth
from 12.6 percent in 1988/89 to 2.4 percent in 1992/93. Real GNP growth fared even worse: from 8.8
percent in 1988/89 to 0.3 in 1992/93.
11.   The reforms envisaged in the adjustment program were intended to prcmote growth and expand
employment opportunities, while continuing to strengthen the fiscal and balance of payments positions.
Such reforms included privatization and parastatal reform, and improving land mianagement and tenure
systems with a view to improving productivity in agriculture. Other supporting structural measures sought
to increase outlays and improve efficiency in the use of fumds for social services, encourage capacity
building in the civil service-with special emphasis on financial management and personnel training-and
promote sound environmental management practices. Overall, the implementation of these structural
reforms was slow, and deteriorated during the final two years of the military regime.
12.   Nonetheless, some progress was witnessed during 1988-93 in the area of structural reform. The
environment for private investment improved, for instance through changes in the tax law and
streamlining of licensing and work permit procedures. More important, the Government formulated on
schedule a phased medium-term comprehensive parastatal reform progyram, which will be supported by
the project proposed in this Memorandum. Progress, albeit slow, was made in education and health
programs.
Recent social performance
13.   In the past 10 years, Lesotho has achieved substantialprogress in human resource development.
Mortality rates are falling and around 75 percent of all 6-12 year olds are enrolled in primary school.



4
A solid core of social infrastructure exists, exemplified by the wide network of schools and clinics.
However, the impressive advances made by Lesotho in human resource development are threatened by
management and manpower deficiencies, population pressure and the future cost of epidemic diseases.
In education, quality is declining when the country is in greatest need of an expansion of skills, and needs
to be responsive to the demands of economic diversification as well as newly-emerging employment
opportunities in the region. In health, the notable advances in the c7pansion and ouality of primary health
care services are constrained by bottlenecks in planning, finance and training. With respect to population,
Lesotho's already high dependency ratio is in danger of worsening even more if fertility does not fall
rapidly, and measures to prevent STD/AIDS are not expanded.
14.   In spite of the achievements in the provision of social services, however, poverty continues to be
serious and is characterized by the high proportions of people classified as poor and very poor-49 percent
and 26 percent, respectively in 1993 (preliminary estimates, up 'ming Poverty Assessment). The
incidence of poverty is most severe in the rural areas: according to one estimate it would be twice as high
as in Maseru, the capital. The continued high rates of poverty find their root in still insignificant progress
made in the development of an indigenous private sector in key sectors such as handicrafts, textiles and
agricultural processing and marketing. Furthermore, the existence of an import ban on wheat and maize
flour in order to protect domestic processing and production of basic food grains may also hurt the poor.
The food price-raising effect functions as a regressive tax, while inhibiting the diversification of
agriculture.
Overall Evaluaion and Sustainability of Refonns
15.   Progress in structural reform was hampered by entreniched interests in the current economic
structures which inhibited the move towards genuine empowerment of local communities and indigenous
entrepreneurs. For instance, the pace of agricultural and land reform was disappointing, as little was done
following the amendment to the Land Act and the gazetting of the grazing fees--finally suspended by the
new government in 1993. Protection of parastatal industries against South African has distorted domestic
competition in favor of capital-intensive parastatals and at the expense of more employment-intensive,
small and medium-scale indigenous businesses. The success of Lesotho's small but thriving industrial
sector based on foreign direct investment--of which around two-thirds is of South African and one-third
of East Asian origin--is double edged. On the one hand, employment has increased substantially as the
sector has sustained a 20 percent real growth rate per annum over the past 20 years. On the other hand,
substantial resentment leading to civi' unrest was fueled by a perceived dominance of foreign ins iors
at the expense of local entrepreneurs.
16.   The sustainability of reforms is most threatened, however, by the lack of progress in civil service
reform, which stalled after it had made a promising start with Swedish, British, UNDP and Bank
assistance. The loss of momentum coincided with a growing lack of political direction in government and
a gradual politicization of the civil service. The uneven and slow implementation of civil service reform
has resulted in a decline of working conditions as experienced by many professionals. Many are migrating
to other countries in the region, including South Africa. The higher salaries paid in South Africa (e.g.
for nurses and teachers) are not the only cause of the brain drain; a perceived lack of prospects and
recognition of effort are also important factors. Rapid implementation of civil service reform is essential
at least to reduce such flight of human capital.
B. EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
17.   The extreme exposure of Lesotho-a small, open economy with an extremely limited resource
base, to South Africa, a large, industrial economy which is undergoing a fundamental transformation-



5
suggests that the main economic strategy to cope with shocks emanating from the external environment
is one based on carefully managed reserves, the ability to respond flexibly and expeditiously to change,
and allowing only a bare minimum of distortions in the basic economic markets for capital and labor.
Challenges to Lesotho's economy include the following: (i) the transformation of the South African
economy; (ii) changes in the international trade regime; and (iii) the regular occurrence of natural disas-
ters (e.g. droughts).
18.   Transformation of South Africa. With a GNP per capita estimate of US$580 in 1991, Lesotho
is an IDA country completely encircled by an IBRD country-South Africa-with a GNP per capita of
US$2,600. Over 80 percent of Lesotho's trade takes place with South Africa. SACU revenues, collected
as duties on imports by the South African government, constitute around 50 percent of Lesotho's gov-
ernment revenues. In any given year about 140,000 men (or 40 percent of Lesotho's male labor force)
are employed in the Republic of South Africa. Migrant earnings constitute about 50 percent of the
country's GNP and allow imports worth more than one and a half times the value of domestic production.
Over 80 percent of adult men living in Lesotho will have been migrant workers in South Africa at some
point in their life. Around 80 percent of Lesotho's households live in the rural areas, and even in the
rural areas remittances make up more than 50 percent of average household income.
19.   A peaceful political transition in South Africa should lead to an economic resurgence. A dynamic
South Africa will stimulate the development of Lesotho's domestic productive base, since it is likely that
the new South African economy will liberalize its markets and generate many opportunities for black,
small-scale entrepreneurial activity. Currently, Lesotho's labor cost competitiveness (the product of wage
levels and labor productivity) compares favorably with South Africa and with its regional competitors-
Botswana, Swaziland, and South Africa's former homelands. Lesotho's minimum wage is currently M268
per month or about 25 percent of the wage level for semi-skilled labor in the PWV area in South Africa.
Labor productivity is quite high and estimated at about 80-90 percent of labor productivity levels in South
Africa. The labor cost competitiveness vis-a-vis South Africa implied by these estimates is significant:
Lesotho's efficiency wage is about a third of South Africa's. Hence, Lesotho should actively defend its
competitiveness and aggressi, ly target those niches in the South African economy in which it holds a
comparative advantage, ratler than attempt to reduce its dependence on the South African economy
exactly at the moment when it is opening up and presents Lesotho with opportunities for a more equitable
sharing of economic growth and development.
20.   The transformation of South Africa's old industrial structure may imply lay-offs in certain
economic sectors and the gradual abolition of the m.igrant labor system. For instance, whereas the
immediate job security of Basotho mine workers in the new South Africa is not threatened-Basotho
miners constitute nearly a quarter of all workers in South Africa's mines, occupy influential positions in
the National Union of Mineworkers and have never been classified as "foreign" in the past-pressures to
abolish the socially-perverse temporary migrant system and replace it by permanent migration of entire
mineworkers families will mount. Whereas permanent migration of Basotho miners to South Africa will
reduce some of the population pressure in Lesotho, it increases the urgency of developing a productive
base in Lesotho itself in order to sustain the remaining population in an economy which will see
temporary migrant remittances fall.
21.   International trade relations. Equally uncertain are the impact of developments in the
international trade arena, in particular the impact of the new GATT. Moreover, an element of uncertainty
is that the new South Africa will be able to negotiate special trade status with the US and the EC. This,
in combination with the lifting of international sanctions on South Africa, may prompt some industries
to relocate within South Africa's borders. Moreover, trade restrictions to Lesotho's garment industry may
continue to stifle export-growth. For instance, in 1993/94 Lesotho's textile exports to the European and



6
American markets have slowed down considerably because of recently imposed export quotas on
Lesotho's garment exports by the US--because of disagreement over origin. These uncertainties suggest
that Lesotho's export-orientation should be as diverse as possible.
22.   Natural disasters. Finally, a small, poor and predominantly rural economy with a limited
resource base is almost continuously exposed to natural disasters. The latest drought hit the economy in
1992/93, and resulted in high food expenditures and imports. Improved water resource management is
an important element of a strategy aimed at drought-proofing the economy. Additionally, carefully
managed financial reserves which can be quickly mobilized to protect the vulnerable groups in society
from the adverse effects of such exogenous shocks will go a long way to minimize the risks of natural
disasters. Moreover, continued liberalization of South African agriculturzl markets will improve food
security in the region through lower consumer prices and increased reliance on international grain trade,
in particular during periods of drought.
C. LESOTHO'S DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
23.   In March of 1993, the Basotho Congress Party won, all 65 seats in the lowei house of parliament,
making Lesotho effectively a one-party democracy. The fragility of the democratic process-accentuated
by two recent mutinies in the ranks of the defense force-and the inexperience of the new government and
parliament in policy-making and implementation, has resulted in an extended "breathing space" while the
Government focussed on issues of strategy and capacity. The new Government has come to power with
a strong political and social vision deeply rooted in the principles of participatory democracy. While it
subscribes to some of the basic principles of the structural reform agenda introduced by the previous
authoritarian regime, it is conscious of the need for a fundamental change in strategy given the fast-
moving political and economic context that has just been described. Moreover, the new Government is
keen to develop a more structured dialogue with the donor community in order to prevent a repetition
of the past, when uncoordinated donor aid sometimes resulted in a large number of fragmented and
ultimately ineffective development activities.
24.   While the Government's policy framework is still emerging, the BCP's election program may
point to a number of strategic themes underlying the Government's development objectives and policies.
Democratic decentralization and civil serice reform are high on the Government's agenda. The BCP's
strong democratic and populist political orientation holds considerable promise in the areas of local
participation in the development process and poverty alleviation. Democratic decentralization is to be
achieved through the establishment of a democratic structure at the level of local government, consisting
of councils at district and village levels. It is envisaged that chiefs will continue to play a role, provided
they act through democratically elected village councils and are held accountable for their activities. Civil
service reform is seen as necessary for improving the working conditions, career-outlook and
remuneration packages of public employees.
25.   The BCP's vision of the economy is that of a nixed economy characterized by government
participation in essential services and minimrn intervention in priority sectors of the economy. There
is a strong commitment to keep macroeconomic stability, to create employment, to encourage private
sector development, to offer strong support to Basotho entrepreneurs in all sectors of the economy and
to continue the privatization of those government activities that can be done more efficiently by the
private sector. The satisfaction of basic needs of the population is given high priority and the Govermwent
would ensure adequate expenditures on social services.
26.   The BCP Government's thinking on important structural and strategic issues is likely to
progressively evolve in the next few years. For instance, the Government needs to reconcile a tension



7
in its philosophy between an inward-looking, and largely protectionist economic strategy with respect to
certain basic consumer goods and services to a more outward-looking and export-oriented economic
strategy. In particular, the Government will have to strike the appropriate balance between the necessity
to foster the development of Basotho entrepreneurship and to increase the attractiveness of Lesotho to
foreign capital. There is resistance against more liberal openness to direct foreign investment--particularly
from South Africa. There is also uncertainty on the best policy to protect genuine infant industries from
"fly-by-night" raiders, while ensuring true competitiveness and avoiding the illusions of import-
substitution strategies in segments of markets that are too small to make them economically viable.
D. BANK GROUP'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
27.   The Bank's strategy aims to assist Lesotho in the process of strategy-setting and to support the
new Government's evolving policy-orientation by helping it to (i) continue and deepen the structural
adjustment program, (ii) improve capacity to implement the program, and (iii) ensure that the benefits
of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project are captured for the country as a whole. The level of Bank
lending is contingent on progress in key areas of structural reform, improving portfoLo performance and
satisfactory implementation of critical aspects of on-going projects, in particular the resettlement, rural
development and environment components of LHWP.
Status of policy dialogue
28.    In view of the complex political transition in Lesotho and South Africa, and the performance
problems of an inexperienced new administration in Lesotho, the Bank and the Government agree that
a period of consolidation of development efforts would be appropriate while economic and sectoral
strategies are reassessed and capacity constraints addressed. The Central Planning Office recently created
a task force that includes representatives of the developmental ministries, the central bank, NGOs, the
university and the private sector. Government has asked the Bank's assistance in this exercise, which will
assess the impact of the adjustment program, reexamine specific objectives in the light of the new
Goverunent's social and political vision and developments in South Africa, and draw up medium-term
economic strategies to advance these objectives. The exercise is planned to produce a concise and
accessible document-Strategic Economic Options Report (SEOR)-by the end of 1994 for consideration
by the cabinet, parliament and community leaders. This is a Lesotho-led pro,ess, with the Bank and the
Fund prov.ding analytical and technical inputs. The Bank fully supports the establishment of such an
inclusive process of strategic, locally-owned policy-making. Concurrent to this exercise, the Government
plans to embark on a third phase of the adjustment program, and has requested the Fund to begin
negotiations for a successor to the ESAF. It is expected that a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for
1994/95 will be prepared with the help of the Bank and the Fund.
29.   The Bank subscribes to the Government's view that the design and implementation of proposed
development projects be planned in consultation with local communities and beneficiaries. The
Privatization and Private Sector Development Assistance Project proposed in this Memorandum received
broad endorsement at a national forum representing Government, the parastatals, the private sector and
the NGOs. Government consultation with the private sector is built into the project through a Private
Sector Advisory Group, while broad communication on the project's goals and rationale-and such
sensitive issues as the role of foreign investors-will be carried out by a Public Awareness Unit. Such
outreach features are likely to be included in the design of future projects in Lesotho.



8
Portfolio Performance and Management
30.   Between 1991 and 1994 the eight to ten projects under supervision each year have been designed
to give direct support to the structural adjustment effort. Except for one IBRD enclave loan of US$110
million for Phase IA of LHWP, projects have been supported by JDA ctedits. The Bank's Lesotho
portfolio is characterized by (i) a favorable development impact in a numiuer of key sectors, (ii) an
increase in serious management problems during the protracted political transition, and (iii) the
importance, in terms of scope and finance, of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project.
31.   Favorable development impact. An ongoing Industry and Agroindustry Project (FY91) has
introduced a range of investor-friendly reforms, overhauled the incentives structure, removed bureaucratic
bottlenecks to foreign investors, and established institutions for promoting local and foreign investment.
Two population and health projects (the second is ongoing) have led to a restructuring of the previous
rudimentary health delivery system and to major expansion of health services in rural areas, with a
noteworthy increase in contraceptive use from 10 percent to 22 percent, and successful establishment of
a national program to control TB and STD. Bank sector work and an Education Sector Project (FY92),
making full use of the lessons of a preceding Fourth Edx';ation Project (FY85), have been the catalyst
for bringing Government and donors together to introdu%.. a US$65 million long-term program to halt
the decline of Lesotho's traditionally high educational standards. An ongoing Infrastructure Engineering
Project (FY92) is helping to prioritize future infrastructure investments, and link them more closely to
overall fiscal management. Three SPPF's have effectively supported improvements in financial and fiscal
management.
32.   Increase in management problems. During the protracted and difficult political transition in
Lesotho, portfolio performance deteriorated, with problem projects (rated 3) increasing to a total of three.
As a result of evaluating the portfolio, the Government and Bank recently reached an agreement to cancel
the Land Management and Conservation Project (FY88) as of December 1, 1994, and to close the Urban
Sector Reorientation Project (FY88) during 1994--six months ahead of time. Two operations-an
Education Sector Development Project (FY92) and a Second Population, Health and N.utrition Project
(FY90)-have more recently experienced implementation problems, which will be addressed by action
plans being prepared by the Government. Most problems arise from poor management and
communication by the central ministries and lack of clear policies. For instance, in the land management
operation, support and initiative from communities was impressive, but was not supported by leadership
and technical back-up from the center, and inter-ministerial friction was among the primary reasons for
poor implementation. Procurement problems have been manageable, and are being dealt with by a series
of visits (two in CY93) by a Bank procurement specialist. Financial reporting in Lesotho improved
significantly during the PFP/ESAF process, supported by Sweden, Britain and Bank SPPFs. Most
auditing problems have been associated with the project in the urban sector, which is now in intensive
care prior to being closed during 1994.
33.   Importance of Lesotho Highlands Water Project. The largest project in the portfolio-LHWP-
ij in the first phase (IA) of five phases of a scheme for diverting the waters of the Senqu (Orange) River
and its tributaries for export of water to South Africa (for benefits see paragraph 47). The LHWP consists
of a large component that will export water to South Africa and a smaller one that will generate electricity
for Lesotho and for export. The cost of these two components, for phases IA and lB of the project, over
the period 1988 to 1997 has been estimated at approximately US$ 2.3 billion and US$ 0.24 billion,
respectively, at 1990 prices. The cost of construction of both components is largely financed through
external borrowing by a Government-created agency, the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority, on
behalf of the Government of Lesotho. An IBRD loan of US$110 million was made to LHDA, and was
a catalyst for total funding of US$1.5 billion for Phase IA from the South African capital markets and
overseas banks and export credit agencies. However, the Govermment of South Africa will service and



9
repay the debt related to the water component of the project and will make regular royalty payments to
Lesotho for its water exports. The Government of Lesotho will be directly responsible for servicing and
repaying the loans borrowed on a concessional basis for the hydroelectric power component of the pro-
ject. Phase IA, which is about 50% complete, has made g6od progress in keeping to construction
schedules and cost parameters for the transfer of water to South Africa, and the first transfer is expected
to begin oni schedule in 1997. Work on a component for hydropower generation--not funded by the Bank-
-has been delayed by several months over bidding procedures. The issue appears now to have been
resolved.
34.   A comprehensive Environmental Action Plan for LHWP is being monitored by a panel of
international experts. An action plan has recently been agreed with LHDA to correct delays in the
implementation of the compenisation program for the affected population (about 150 households being
moved, and about 1250 households losing some or all agricultural land) and to make it more responsive
to nutritional needs. There has been a serious delay in the start of a long-term rural development program
for the betterment of inhabitants of the general project area. However, misunderstandings between
Lesotho and South Africa over funding arrangements have been resolved, and LHDA has prepared an
action program to accelerate implementation of the rural development component. The Bank is
encouraging the use of NGOs in implementing elements of the program, given the confidence the NGOs
gained in implementing numerous components of the recent drought-relief program.
Level of Bank Support
35.   The Government and the Bank agree that future IDA lending should be identified in the context
of the proposed structured policy dialogue. New projects will be directly related to priorities which will
emerge from this strategy-setting exercise. Identification with project goals by the Government and
prospective beneficiaries is included in this exercise, and the participatory mechanisms built into the
proposed project (see para. 29) are likely to be replicated in other projects.
36.   Under the low lendini scenario, with its emphasis on consolidation, only two IDA projects are
firmly in a core lending program for the five years from FY94 through FY98. These are the proposed
Privatization and Private Sector Development Assistance Project (FY94; IDA), in a sector that has shown
ability to deal with capacity problems, and the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
(FY96; IDA), the preparation of which is supported by the Infrastructure Engineering Project (see above),
which is well managed. The maintenance project will involve communities in labor-intensive activities.
This core lending scenario envisages total lending of about US$35 million during FY94-98.
37.   The high lending scenario envisages total IDA funding for the five years of US$104 million.
Progress in strategy-setting and capacity development (see paras. 28 and 29) could trigger preparation
of another three IDA-financed projects that could be considered for approval during the latter years of
the FY94-98 period, in addition to sector-specific requirements referred to below. The additional projects
could include operations for improving the delivery of health and other social services, especially to the
most-neglected rural areas, and creating administrative and financial capacities in the districts and small
towns; in each case, assistance would be linked to the Government's plans for decentralization. IDA-
financed projects are also possible for supporting formulation of population policies and programs,
implementing key aspects of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), and promoting agricultural
diversification, especially into high-value horticultural crops for South African and EC markets. The latter
operations will require changes to land-use legislation and agricultural pricing and marketing policies
before they can be considered. An operation to improve public sector financial management has been
discussed, and could be linked to a reorganization of the Ministry of Finance being considered by the
Government.



10
Lesotho: Selected Indicators of Portfolio Performance and Management
FY91      FY92      FY93                 FY94
(current)
Portfolio Performance
No. of Projects under Implementation               8        10         8                    7
Ave. Implementation Period (years)               5.7        5.8       4.6                  4.3
Average Ratings
Development Objectives                         1.8        2.0       1.7                  1.8
Overall Status                                 2.0        2.1       2.2                  2.2
Percent of Projects rated 3 or 4
Development Objectives                        12.0      22.0       25.0                14.0'
Overall Status                                12.0       22.0      37.0                42.0'
Canceled during FY ($m)                        0.0        0.0       0.0                  6.9
Disbursement Ratio (percent)                    17.6       12.3      14.8                  4.8
Disbursement Lag (percent)                      15.0       37.5      43.9                 49.8
Memorandum Item:
Percent Completed Projects Rated Unsatisfactory    0         0         0                    0
Portfolio Management
Supervision Resources (total in staffweeks)     65.9      144.8     148.6                102.0
Average Supervision (in staffweeks)              8.2       14.5      18.6                 14.2
Supervision Resourt4s by Location (in percent)
Percent Headquarters                            100       100       100                  100
Percent Resident Mission                        n/a       n/a        n/a                 n/a
Supervision Resources by Rating Category
(staffweeks/project)
Projects rated "1" or "2"                      6.8       13.5      15.2                 14.2
Projects rated "3" or "4W                     18.0       24.5      23.7                 15.0
Memorandum Item
Date of Last/Next CPPR                        - -         -         -2/3
March 1994, Government agreed to closing, during CY94, of two 3-rated problem projects indicated
b.  here, which will involve cancellation of about $20 million.
Intensive review of problematical projects and components (not ful CPPR).
38.    The Bank is considering a request by the Government to help the Lesotho Highlands Development
Authority prepare the next phase (IB) of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project. IBRD funding would be
used as a catalyst for substantial commercial finance, with total cost of Phase 1B amounting to about
US$1 billion. Three important issues need to be resolved before the Bank can make a commitment. First,
the Lesotho Government and the South African Government will need to reach agreement among
themselves and with prospective financiers on the financing arrangements. Second, Bank involvement in
Phase lB will be contingent on satisfactory progress with the delayed rural development component and
the compensation program of Phase IA and third, a resettlement and compensation program for the phase
lB area, acceptable to the Bank, will need to be have been agreed between LHDA and the affected
population. It is envisaged that, if these conditions can be met, an IBRD phase lB loan would be
appraised in about mid-1996.
39.    If there are major setbacks in South Africa's political and economic development, with an
inevitable negative economic impact on Lesotho, a concerted donor and NGO effort will be required to
provide short-term relief to the most vulnerable sections of the community while longer-term programs
are devised. Current discussions of the Bank's Poverty Assessment will help provide a focus on needs.



11
Composition of Bank Assistance Program
40.   Bank assistance during the last three years has focussed on supporting the implementation of the
structural adjustment program through projects in parastatal reform, private sector development,
agriculture, infrastructure and human resource development; all projects have included capacity-building
elements. Support for future lending will be contingent on the establishment of a constructive policy
dialogue around the strategic options open to Lesotho in the medium to long-term. With respect to the
current lending program, the Government and Bank agree on the broad areas for achieving the main
objectives of a joint strategy: (i) maintaining and deepening structural reforms, (ii) addressing capacity
constraints in the public sector, and (iii) capturing the benefits of LHWP (see Development Objectives
Matrix below).
41.   Maintaining and deepening structural reforms. The new Government has inherited a substantial
agenda of unfinished business in structural reform--the implementation of which is crucial to the creation
of employment and improving incomes. In certain key sectors of the economy, the slow implementation
of certain structural reforms seems related to the particular nature of the political economy of Lesotho,
in particular to the vested interests in economic rents that accrue to certain sections of Basotho society.
Given the rapid transformation in the region, however, the more fundanental challenge ahead is to
engage the Government in a constructive dialogue around the strategic economic options open to Lesotho,
including such issues as a general reduction of the scope of government activities, the appropriate mix
of competition and regulation in the economy, the role of foreign capital and technology in economic
development, the costs and benefits of import-substitution policies in the context of a small, resource-poor
economy and the economic opportunities for Lesotho induced by the process of fundamental
transformation of its larger neighbor.
42.   Progress being made with industrial and parastatal reform through an ongoing Industrial and
Agroindustries Development Project will be further supported by the project proposed in this
Memorandum. A main aim is to achieve an appropriate balance between foreign and indigenous
investment, to support the long-neglected indigenous enterprise sector, and to develop linkages between
the export-oriented manufacturing sector and local entrepreneurs. Development of niche markets in South
Africa will be encouraged, e.g. in textiles, low-end electrical products, low-grade meat and processed
agricultural products. The Bank will also help Lesotho address a number of impediments to investment
by foreigners, such as a lack of work skills outside the mining and garment industries.
43.   A stalled National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) will be revived. Although the Government
wishes to revisit the most controversial aspect of the plan-the introduction of grazing fees on the
communal ranges-it is committed to key objectives for involving communities in land-use decisions,
extending women's rights, and implementing a population policy. The UNDP is funding the creation of
a National Environmental Secretariat. Consistent with the NEAP, Bank sector work is helping a program
of Water Resource Management. Revival of the NEAP, and the need to reduce the impact of drought is
expected to be a benchmark in the PFP or an enlarged ESAF, if this is successfully negotiated.
44.   Addressing capacity constraints in the public sector. Reducing the size of the public sector
through the privatization of activities better performed by the private sector is a key means to alleviating
capacity constraints of the public sector. The Government has accepted that adjustment can only be
achieved if there are major improvements in the performance of the civil service, which suffers from a
mushrooming of public sector activities, poor inter-ministerial coordination, lack of a strategy-setting and
goal-oriented structure, and inadequate recognition of merit. However, long-term, radical and
comprehensive measures need to be taken, including the creation of developmental cadres with pay
decompression to reflect the range of skill levels. Given the threat of an accelerated brain drain of civil



12
service employees to South Africa and the general deterioration of project management, the Government
will need to act more effectively and show more resolve in addressing public secior management
constraints. This view is shared by donors, several of whom are reducing financial support.
45.   The Government has asked UNDP to take the lead in designing a phased program  for
restructuring the bureaucracy, and envisages an integrated effort by all aid agencies to support the
process. The Bank has stressed that a first step must be to secure the independence of the civil service,
which during the unsettled years of the constitutional transition has been vulnerable to politicization. The
Bank has argued in particular for strengthening of the Public Service Commission. Benchmarks to this
effect are expected to be included in a 1994/95 enlarged ESAF/PFP.
46.   Improvements in capacity will be linked to a broad-based program for developing human capital.
To arrest a decline in manpower development and the quality of education, the Government is
implementing a comprehensive program for educational reform at the pri.nary and secondary levels based
on a Bank Education Sector Review (FY89). If the program is successful, its impact will be felt well into
the next century. The Bank will also help the Government extend and rationalize the encouraging start
made with family planning. A Bank Population Policy Review (March 1994) is being considered by the
Government, and recommendations will be presented to NGOs and communities. It will be important to
reduce Lesotho's high dependency ratio not only through lower fertility but by taking early steps to deal
with the growing threat of STD/AIDS.
47.   Capturing the benefits of LHWP. Because of its catalytic role in the financing of this project,
the Banlk has a crucial interest in working with Lesotho to ensure that the project's substantial benefits
are effectively captured for the well-being of the Basotho people. The net present value--at a 10 percent
discount rate--of the water royalties associated with Phase IA are estimated at US$360 million. As a
condition of the IBRD loan for the project, a development fund has been established, and (through
February 1994) the first deposits of M 46 million (US$13.5 million) were made from customs-related
revenues on project investment. To provide guidance for the project's next phase, a study of economic
impact is being carried out. There are indications that, although the project and work on its access roads
has provided employment for 8,500 Basotho, the creation of spin-off activities in the country has been
disappointing. The urgency which needs to be given to activating the project's rural development program
is referred to above.
Other areas of Bank assistance
48.   In economic and sector work, the process of policy dialogue is further strengthened through
ongoing discussions of a Bank Poverty Assessment (April 1994), which identifies the causes of increasing
poverty in the country, and proposes options for alleviation. A number of recent and ongoing Bank
studies include an assessment of the implications of demographic flux in the region, such as the social
and gender impact of migrant labor and the remittance economy, and the unique needs of a rural economy
in which women are predominant. This work will help shape future policy and investment priorities to
ensure that Lesotho is positioned to respond flexibly to the changing socioeconomic environment.
Legislation to achieve greater gender equality, especially in regard to land use, was drafted by the
previous Government, and the Bank is recommending prompt implementation of the provisions.
Creditworthiness and Exposure
49.   Creditworthiness applies only to LHWP. The IBRD loan for Phase IA is in effect being repaid
by South Africa, whose creditworthiness was judged to be sound. The financial arrangements for Phase



13
lB between Lesotho, South Africa and the commercial banks have not yet been discussed; Bank
involvement in this phase will require a new creditworthiness assessment.
IFC and MIGA Activities
50.   IFC has not been a major investor in Lesotho, but has made an important contribution to the
industrial reform process, and is likely to be more active operationally in the proposed project. Studies
and technical advice by IFC's Foreign Investment and Advisory Service contributed to the design of the
ongoing Industry and Agroindustrial Development Project, especially in regard to investment incentives
and reform measures. In the project proposed in this memorandum, IFC's involvement will be valuable
in identifying investors especially for the sale of larger companies, and IFC's African Enterprise Facility
and African Project Development Facility may be used to support indigenous investment. Lesotho is a
member of MIGA, but investors have not yet sought the agency's support.
Cooperation with Other Institutions
51.   The Bank and the Fund have effectively divided their labor in Lesotho. The Fund has met the
country's limited need for di ,ct short-term balance of payments support through the SAF/ESAF process,
wvhich has provided an adequate framework for adjustment, without requiring IDA adjustment lending.
The Bank has focussed on improving the longer-term balance of payments position through LHWP. The
SAF/ESAF process has been reinforced by IDA lending, especially in industrial and educational reform.
Complementarily between the Bank and the Fund has contributed to Lesotho's success in eliminating the
fiscal deficit. The Bank has also worked closely with USAID on education reform, Sweden and Britain
on strengthening fiscal management, FAO and WFP on drought relief, the UNDP on creating the
administrative machinery to implement the NEAP, Ireland and ODA in supporting management reforms
in the health sector and South Africa in preparing LHWP. EC country programs have been fully
integrated with the adjustment process. The Bank and members of the donor community in Maseru have
agreed to work together in the strategy-setting exercise described above, and this collaboration will be
reinforced by a UNDP donor roundtable in Geneva, which the Government would like to take place
during 1994. The last structured donor meetings (on the environment and public administration) were held
in 1991, but lapsed during the political transition.



14
MATRIX: DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND INSTRUMENTS
Oblectives/st                            Policv Goals                                     Instruments & TiminE
A.   Maintaining and deepening
structural reforms to create
employment and improve incomes.
1.   Macroeconomic reform         Maintain fiscal balance; increase export-orientadon;  Strategic Economic Options Report
reduce quantitative import controls and import-  (FY94.9S)
substitution support.                            E-ESAF/PFP (FY94, 95, 96)
Industry and Agroindustrial
Development Project (FY94-95)
UNDP Donor roundtable (FY94)
2.    Private sector development   Increase role of the private sector; privatize  Instruments as above
parastatals; adopt appropriate competitive and   Privatization and Private Sector
regulatory framework; increase efficiency of public  Development Assistance Project
utilities; develop linkages between foreign and  (}Y94)
indigenous entrepreneurs; target indigenous
entrepreneurs for special support.
3.    Environment and poverty     Ensure environmental sustainability of development  National Environmental Action Plan
alleviation                  strategies; involve communities in natural resource  (revive FY94).
use management; extend women's rights, especially in  Population Policy Review (FY94)
land; adopt population policy.                   Poverty Assessment (FY94)
Population and Health II Project
(ongoing)
Land Management and Conservation
Project (ongoing)
B.   Addressing capacity constraints in
the publc sector.
1.   Reduce the size of the public    Continue privatization and rationalization of public  Privatization and Private Sector
sector.                     sector activities.                                Development Assistance Project
(FY94)
E-ESAF/PFP (FY94, 95, 96)
2.    Adopt civil service reform.  Depoliticize civil service and strengthen Public  Civil Service Reform (FY94-97)
Service Commission: increase planning and        E-ESAF/PFP (FY94, 95, 96)
implementation capacity; improve inter-ministerial
coordination; adopt merit and skill-based career paths;
decompress salary scales.
3.    Develop human capital.       Expand and strengthen broad-based programs in    Education Sector Development Project
education, health and populadon.                 (ongoing)
Population Policy Review (FY94)
C.   Capuring the benefits of LHWP.    Acdvate rural development component; involve NOOs   Lesotho Highlands Water IA Project
and local communities in planning and            (FY94-97)
implementation; adopt clear procedures for use of  SPPF for support of Development
Development Fund.                                Fund (FY93)



15
E. AGENDA FOR BOARD CONSIDERATION
52.   Lesotho has reached a crossroads in its political and economic development. The signs are
generally favorable, with the restoration of democracy at home after 23 years of authoritarian rule, and
prospects for a resurgent economy in South Africa and closer collaboration between the two countries.
The new Government in Lesotho has inherited a sound fiscal base and low debt-exposure. Moreover, the
country enioys above-average literacy levels for sub-Saharan Africa, especially among women.
53.   But Lesotho is also vulnerable to the forces of change which could jeopardize past economic and
social gains. At home, the political transiti n towards democracy has been difficult, involving a
constitutional crisis over the monarchy in the inal years of the last Government, and unrest among
factions in the military in the first year of the new Government. Frictions within the leadership and
between the leadership and the civil service exist, aggravating the capacity problems of the new
Government. However, the overwhelming electoral victory of the Basutoland Congress Party gave a
fundamental legitimacy to the unfolding process of democratization of Basotho society-a process which
deserves the full support of the Bank.
54.   Externally, as in td  past, developments in South Africa involve risks as well as potential benefits
to Lesotho. The smaller -neighbor could without doubt experience a beneficial fallout from a dynamic
South African econiomy, and the loss of mining jobs by Basotho migrant workers are likely to be offset
by increased pay lvels and greater demand for Basotho with other skills. South Africa has indicated that
it intends to work with its neighbors through the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) to
ensure a two-way flow of benefits from closer integration. Moreover, as the poorest of the Southem
African countries which share a common customs and monetary union and as a major labor supplier to
South Africa's miries, Lesotho can probably count on a sympathetic treatment from a new Government
in South Africa. But there can be no assurances at a time of rapid flux that investment, skills and donor
funding will not be diverted from Lesotho to South Africa, while a major setback to South Africa's
political and economic development will be inevitably felt in Lesotho.
55.   Against this background, the Government has set itself a challenging agenda. It has committed
itself to the adjustment program's goals of fiscal stability, employment creation, human resource
development, encouragement of the private sector and conservation of the environment. It is generally
supportive of an open economy, although it is ambivalent about liberalization of foreign investment and
trade in food staples. The Government differs from its predecessor in that it seeks extensive participation
by communities in development decisions, and is considering significant decentralization of authority.
56.   The Bank/Government strategy in Lesotho is designed to engage the Government in a process of
consolidation of an increasingly problematical development portfolio (involving most donors),
improvements in capacity as a prerequisite for maintaining past lending levels over the next five years,
and reassessment of macroeconomic and sectorial strategies to reflect changes in the domestic and
regional economy. It is a matter of urgency for the country's leadership to articulate its economic and
social goals more clearly, and to work with the UNDP, Bank and other donors to reform the civil
service, beginning with basic measures to enhance the independence of the service and strengthen
decision-making processes.
57.   A crucial aspect of Lesotho's economic development and the Bank's engagement in the country
is the Lesotho Highlands Water Project. Apart from job creation, the substantial financial benefits
accruing to Lesotho provide the country with an unprecedented opportunity for investment in
development. With advance royalties being used to open a special development fund, the Government
must now begin to identify investments consistent with the evolving investment priorides. Bank/donor



16
support being provided for setting economic strategies will help this process. Equally important is the
need for the Government and the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority to activate the stalled rural
development component of the project; a failure of the project at least to maintain the standard of living
in the general project area will be unacceptable.
58.   Although the Bank, in common with a number of donors, is reducing the rate of lending to
Lesotho while fundamental issues of capacity and strategy are addressed, a positive view is inistified,
given Lesotho's record in recent years as one of the high performers in sub-Saharan Africa in terms of
growth and fiscal management, and the reasonable expectation that the benefits of developments in South
Africa will outweigh the risks. Much will depend on the coordinated development effort proposed by the
Government and the international development community to provide Lesotho with the means and
confidence to meet the challenge of the new democratic era.
PART II: THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Background
59.   Lesotho's economy remains deeply vulnerable to a 35 percent unemployment rate that is growing
as employment opportunities in South Africa are declining. This situation is exacerbating the urgent need
to diversify the economy, increase rural and urban employment opportunities in both the formal and
informal sectors, and use scarce budgetary resources to achieve these ends.
60.   As part of the structural adjustment effort, Lesotho has put in place institutions and reforms to
promote growth of the private sector. Specifically, the government has established new investment
promotion facilities, increased the access that indigenous businesses have to project and equity financing,
and undertaken substantial steps to improve the regulatory environment for the private sector. Partly as
a consequence of the success of this effort, between 1987 and 1991, the manufacturing sector led
employment and growth, growing at an annual rate of 16 percent compared with slightly less than 8
percent for the economy as a whole.
61.   As a next step, the government indicates its commitment to rationalize the public sector. The
parastatal sector consists of about twenty companies and financial institutions in which the government
of Lesotho directly owns majority shares. The government indirectly owns another thirty-one companies.
Some sectors are dominated by state-owned enterprises that were initially established to ensure domestic
ownership of "strategic" industries and services in the absence of an indigenous private sector. Today,
some of these enterprises are a drain on the government budget, divert resources from more efficient
uses, and in scme cases crowd out the private sector. In agroindustries and transportation, for example,
where small indigenous enterprises tend to thrive in other countries, publicly owned companies
predominate in Lesotho. A subset of strategic investments made by the Lesotho National Development
Corporation (LNDc) continue to experience losses and to drain energy and resources from the role that
LNDC could play in development. LNDC, the "indigenous investor" of last resort, excludes private
indigenous investors, whose potential to be a source of self-employment and investment should be
encouraged.
62.   The government has shown commendable commitment to the privatization and private sector
development objectives of the proposed project. Over the past year, the World Bank has assisted the
government in preparing a privatization strategy and program, which was discussed and finally agreed
in July 1992. Since then, the government has passed a statement of privatization policies (appendix A).



17
The Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (the parastatal that promotes indigenous
entrepreneurship) has been restructured. Co-Op Lesotho and the Bus and Foreign Transport Services (the
government-owned agricultural marketing and transport monopolies, respectively) are being effectively
displaced by the private sector. The Lesotho Building Finance Corporation has been folded into the
commercially operated Lesotho Bank, which is scheduled to be privatized in an early phase of the
proposed program. The Lesotho National Development Corporation has sold Pioneer Motors to a private
indigenous investor. The Lesotho Bank Act has been amended to permit it to sell shares and to offer unit
trusts as a product. This is expected to be an important vehicle for selling the public shares of some
privatized companies.
63.   Following the democratically held elections in March 1993, the new government has indicated
strong commitment to the privatization effort begun under the previous regime. This commitment is
clearly stated in the Party Manifesto and was reiterated in the budget statement presented by the new
minister of finance to parliament in June 1993.
Project Objectives
64.   The objectives of the proposed project are to ensure sustained economic growth in which the
private sector takes the lead and the government focuses on providing social services and a positive
enabling environment. To achieve these objectives, the government will (a) encourage expansion of the
role of the private sector in the economy through its privadzation program; (b) enhance the competitive
environment for private sector operations; (c) encourage private investment in sectors that require the
transfer of technology and the heavy infusion of capital; (d) develop capital market instruments to support
the parastatal reform and privatization effort; and (e) improve the efficiency and productivity of
enterprises currently in the parastatal sector.
65.   In achieving these objectives, the government would give important focus to (a) reducing the
parastatal sector's drain on the budget, (b) increasing company ownership and overall business activity,
particularly by indigenous investors, and (c) mobilizing indigenous investment capital for the purchase
of companies being privatized.
Project Description
66.   The proposed project will be predominantly a technical assistance project to support the
government's privatization effort. Under the Industrial and Agroindustries Development Project, the
government successfully implemented reforms that have already substantially improved the environment
for private investment. The proposed project provides an opportunity to undertake additional in-depth
studies on issues affecting the private sector. The resulting findings and recommendations will be
reviewed on an ongoing basis and during the mid-term review, and an action program will be designed
to implement key reforms. The proposed project includes the following elements.
67.   Privatizadon. The following assistance will be offered: (a) a five-year program of short-term
assistance from a privatization specialist, a corporate finance specialist, a valuation specialist, and a
lawyer who will carry out specific tasks related to the privatization. These tasks will include, among
others, development of procedural guidelines for various aspects of privatization (such as valuation,
advertising, criteria for evaluation/selection, negotiations); (b) short-term, specialized, transactions-
oriented technical assistance and investment banker services to help the privatization committee prepare
companies or government services for sale or privatization by displacement; (c) advisory assistance to
develop and assist with the implementation of a public awareness/investor education effort to include
development of printed and broadcast media, seminars, and other fora to educate the public about the



18
goverfnent's privatization and private sector development program; and (d) office equipment to support
the Privatization Unit.
68.   Private Sector Development. The following efforts will be undertaken: (a) strengthening the
legal framework for the private sector through the development of a long-term strategy and action plan,
especially to ensure fair and rapid enforcement of contracted obligations; (b) studies to develop action
plans in areas where reforms are required to support private sector development. These include (i) taking
steps to address issues related to Lesotho's labor market with a view to implementing changes in how
wage rates are set, improving productivity, and improving strained labor relations to encourage a greater
use of the country's excess labor, and (ii) reviewing and revising the structure of utility tariff rates to
make it consistent with the country's strategy for attracting investtnents in labor-intensive, export-oriented
industries; (c) efforts to strengthen the following: (i) the Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of Land,
Surveys, and Physical Planning (to implement measures that ensure a more efficient allocation of urban
and industrial land), (ii) the Lesotho Investment Promotion Center (to promote foreign investment), (iii)
the Business Advisory and Promotion Services (to support indigenous investors), and (iv) the Lesotho
Chamber of Commerce (to enhance its ability to act as a voice for the private sector and to communicate
more effectively with the government during the privatization effort).
69.   Capital Market Development. Technical assistance will be provided to undertake the following
(a) develop regulatory capability related to new capital market investments, such as using indigenous
savings groups as investor groups and devising employee stock ownership plans; (b) prepare a prospectus
for the Lesotho Investment Holdings (LI) unit trust, the Lesotho Bank unit trust, or both; (c) assist with
the valuation of certain LNDC subsidiary companies to be sold through LI or another unit trust; and (d)
assist with the marketing of unit trust shares to the private sector including close liaison with the public
awareness/investor education effort.
70.   Training. Training will be offered to improve technical skills for the following efforts (a)
implementing privatization at the level of the privatization committee and commercializing some
enterprises not being privatized; (b) improving the entrepreneurial and management capacity of displaced
workers, indigenous businessmen, and local entrepreneurs who displace public service agencies that are
privatized; and (c) handling legal mnatters identified in the study of the commercial law reform strategy.
71.   Implementation Fund. US$3.3 million, including contingencies, will be available to finance
investments that are identified by the legal framework study or other private sector development studies
carried out under the project. The line of credit provided under the Industrial and Agroindustries
Development Project will be available to finance new investments and restructuring requirements of
privatized companies.
Project Implementation
72.     The principal secretary of the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for all aspects of project
implementation. He will be assisted by a full-time project coordinator who shall, inter alia, be responsible
for disbursement and procurement matters and consultant related activities. The project coordinator shall
liaise on these subjects with the implementing agencies described below. A project accountant would be
appointed to be responsible for maintaining project records and accounts and for ensuring the timely audit
of said accounts. A newly established Privatization Unit will be responsible for the day-to-day
implementation of the privatization program. The Ministry of Law and Constitutional Affairs (Attorney
General's Office) will be responsible for overseeing the drafting of the Privatization Law and for
managing the legal franework study. The principal secretaries of the Ministry of Employment and the
Ministry of Trade and Industry, in collaboration with the director of the relevant utility and the director



19
of the Investment Promotion Center, will be responsible for implementing actions to be agreed following
the studies on the labor market and utility rate structures. The principal secretary of the Ministry of
Finance will collaborate with the Cer.tral Bank on developing the capital market and with the Ministry
of Education on devising the entrepreneurship training component. An implementation fund committee
headed by the principal secretary of the Ministry of Finance and composed of the principal secretary
Ministry of Planning, the Attorney General, the chairman of the Privatization Unit, and two
representatives of the private sector designated by the principal secretary of Finance and acceptable to
IDA would decide on activities to be financed by the implementation fund. Decisions by the committee
would be specified in an implementation fund action plan which would be agreed with IDA and updated
on an ongoing basis as necessary. Beneficiary assessment work financed under the Industrial and
Agroindustries Development Project will also evaluate the impact of the privatization program on the
private sector and on employees of the parastatal companies being sold. The results will be reviewed with
project management at the Mid-Term Review.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
73.     The proposed project is a cornerstone of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Lesotho. The
strategy emphasizes Lesotho's adjustments to developments in South Africa and world markets and
encourages economic diversification, improved productivity and competitiveness in industry and
agroindustry. The proposed privatization program also has important budgetary considerations. That is,
budget resources freed by the sale of state owned companies can be used to finance essential
infrastructure, training and other programs to support private sector development and efficiency. In
recognition of future challenges, the government requested World Bank assistance to develop an economy-
wide privatization strategy. During the November 1992 mission, a draft Privatization Strategy Paper,
including fiscal impacts, and a draft company-specific privatization program and timetable were discussed
with the government. Substantial agreements were reached. Nonetheless, the government recognizes that
it needs assistance with many technical and process issues. It is our judgment that without focused
technical assistance support, the government will not be able to carry out the program. Technical
assistance will be short term and oriented toward completing specific transactions. An additional rationale
for IDA involvement is to establish principles (see para. 75) regarding the establishment of new
commercial parastatals, and the role of LNDC in commercial investments and in supporting the private
sector. Also IDA, in supporting the establishment of a Private Sector Advisory Group and a public
awareness/investor education effort, will foster communication between the government and the private
sector as part of the democratization process under way.
74.   The International Finance Corporation (IFC) is expected to play an important role in achieving
project objectives. Specifically, the African Project Development Facility (APDF) will work closely with
the Business Advisory and Promotion Service (BAPS) to assist indigenous entrepreneurs to develop
proposals to purchase and finance some privatized companies. IFC involvement will also be valuable in
identifying investors, especially for the sale of larger companies requiring significant capital investments,
technical expertise and market experience.
Actions to be Agreed
75.   Conditions of Negoftations. The following condition was met before the start of negotiations:
agreement to support the creation of a Private Sector Advisory Group composed of senior-level
government officials, the chief of the Privatization Unit, and key members of the private sector
(employers, employees, and members of the legal community) to facilitate communication on the
privatization program and private sector development issues. At Negotiations. The following
agreements were reached during negotiations (a) agreement on the draft privatization law; (b) agreement



20
on the submission of annual privatization plans; (c) agreement to allocate divestiture proceeds to
investments supportive of the privatization process and private sector development; (d) agreement on
restraint and mutual consultation with IDA on the creation of new parastatals (defined as majority
government-owned or majority owned by government-owned entities); (e) agreement to harden the
budget constraint on parastatals by ceasing all operating subsidies as of April 1, 1997; (f) agreement at
the mid-term review to implement key reforms identified by project studies; (g) submission, within one
year of project effectiveness, of an analysis and a time-bound action plan to implement recommended
changes in laws that negatively affect the ability of women to .nvest in and expand a business; and
agreement to implement the action plan; (h) agreement to establish an implementation fund committee
and to mutually agree with IDA on investments to be financed; (i) agreement on an implementation plan
for the carrying out of the private sector development studies; (j) agreement to maintain a Law Reform
Commission to manage the legal framework study and to implement its recommendations. Conditions
of Disbursements. (a) For the implementation fund, agreement with IDA on investments to be financed;
(b) For support to the Department of Land, Surveys and Physical Planning, agreement on an expenditure
plan to strengthen the Department and on evidence of the transfer of a head lease to the Ministry of Trade
and Industry for eventual private development. Condition of Board Presentation. (a) A signed letter
of privatization policy, declaring the government's objectives in this area; (b) The package of letters of
invitation for the first year of technical assistance will be issued. Conditions of Effectiveness.
(a) Enactment of a Privatization Law satisfactory to IDA; (b) appointment of a chief of the Privatization
Unit (a person of at least Principal Secretary rank and stature) agreeable to IDA; and appointment of staff
(agreeable to IDA, with backgrounds in economics, finance, and law) for the Privatization Unit; (c)
Appointment of a project accountant acceptable to IDA.
76.   Benefits. The project will result in an ongoing process of removing the government from
involvement in commercial activity and of improving the competitive and regulatory environment for the
private sector. This promises to improve efficiency, enhance growth, and increase employment and
business opportunities. The privatization program is expected to result in divestiture proceeds amounting
to M148.3 million (about US$49.4 million) over five years (from conservatively estimated sales proceeds
and net cost savings resulting from the elimination of subsidies). The plan for allocating the proceeds
from divestiture (agreed at negotiations) will ensure that resources are channeled to investments that
support the privatization process and/or the private sector. The public investment program will be
monitored to ensure that they are. The divestiture timetable (appendix B) will be used to monitor the
project's progress. As a target, the project intends to support the frull or partial privatization of at least
four companies (both large and small) each year, or 20 companies over a five-year period.
77.   Risks. An anticipated risk, which presently appears to be minimal, is that the political will to
implement a privatization program may diminish over time. A principal aspect of reluctance to privatize
is the concern that the country does not have enough capital and entrepreneurial capacity and that
privatization would mean foreign ownership, with the predominant concern being potential South African
ownership. This risk is mitigated by a strategy in which the first phase of privatization will clearly favor
indigenous ownership by emphasizing the sale of smaller companies, supported by appropriate financing
arrangements where necessary. Future phases of the privatization strategy will then be able to focus on
privatizing companies that require large capital investments and technology transfer by foreign investors
(such as telecommunications). Capital market mechanisms (such as purchasing shares through a unit trust
and encouraging management buyouts and employee stock ownership plans) that support indigenous
ownership in the first and subsequent stages of the privatization program will be given priority. It is
envisaged that broader indigenous ownership in the economy will support the ongoing process of
democratization. Indeed, a strong public awareness campaign through pitsos-district-based indigenous
communication structures-is an integral part of the project.



21
78.   A more immediate risk is that the new government will be less committed to the privatization
prograr, This risk appears to be manageable and has been mitigated by a seminar offered to government
officials, parastatal managers, and key members of the private sector. The seminar provided an
opportunity to discuss broad concepts, relevant experiences in other countries, and issues to be dealt with
in Lesotho's program. The successfully achieved objective of the seminar was to build understanding,
dialogue, and ownership as the basis for implementing the program efficiently. Although the issue of
broad commitment appears to be under control, there are nonetheless areas of concern. For example, the
sale of Lesotho Airways and the management contract to commercialize the abattoir have been put on
hold.
79.   Program  SustainabilHty.  The current status of Lesotho's parastatals is not sustainable.
Financially they represent a budgetary drain which is inconsistent with the country's expenditure
priorities. Managerial inadequacies result in economic inefficiency and the misallocation of scarce
resources. In the recent elections the private sector indicated its dissatisfaction with the current state of
affairs and demande( increased governmental efficiency and accountability. The proposed program seeks
to rationalize the parastatal sector and to provide support for private sector development. In meeting these
objectives, there is greater long-term sustainability of the companies being privatized. There are also
certain risks wl.ich threaten program sustainability. First, there is concern that the benefits of privatization
may be seen to accrue to the country's political elite, thereby undermining the program's credibility and
sustainability. The privatization law and its implementing legislation will include procedures to ensure
transparency in the privatization process. Also, a condition of the project will be to create a Private
Sector Advisory Group consisting of members of the private sector, the banking and legal community,
and women's business groups, among others. The purpose of this group, which will also have senior-level
representation from the ministries of finance, planning, trade, interior, agriculture, and justice as well
as the chief of the Privatization Unit, will be to allow the government and the private sector to
communicate regularly on project initiatives. Second, the risk that redundant workers will undermine the
sustainability of the privatization effort is mitigated by the provision of severance packages (financed by
the proceeds of divestiture) and substantial retraining support.
80.   Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Projects. In the sector, a project completion report and
an audit report on the second development finance credit highlighted certain weaknesses in the
performance of the LNDC and the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDco). In the
Industrial and Agroindustries Development Project and in the project proposed here, measures were taken
to restructure BEDCO and to begin to reorient LNDC toward being more supportive of the private sector
rather than to replace it. Other project completion and audit reports on the country, as well as on other
countries in Africa, have indicated concern about the efficacy of long-term technical assistance. The
proposed project addresses that issue by providing short-term, transactions-oriented interventions
(combined with training) that will be actively managed by strong senior-level government officials.
Finally, implementation performance of IDA projects in Lesotho is poor, and our portfolio in the country
is classified together with the most troubled in the region. This has been due primarily to low government
ownership and weak commitment to project objectives. The proposed project has been completely driven
by the government, starting with its initial request for assistance in 1991. A patient process of
collaboration and consensus building, including a high level seminar to establish dialogue with the new
government and the initiation of a broad public awareness effort, ensure ownership and strong
commitment.



22
81.   Project Objective Category. Privatization and Parastatal Restructuring, Private Sector
Development.
Environmental Aspects
82.   The project offers technical assistance and capacity building with no enviromnental implications.
Recommendation
83.   1 am satisfied that the credit will comply with the articles of agreement of the Association and
recommend that the executive directors approve the credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 25, 1994



23
Annex Al
April 1994
Page 1 of 1
Lesotho: IBRD/IDA LeAndlng Program FY 91-97
Past        Cunrnad
Category                PY91   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96  FY97
Commitments (US$m)        21.0  145.0   0.0       11.0    0.0   25.0    TBD
(IDA)           (IDA)  (IBRD)
Sector (percent)
Agriculture             100.0
Industry and fnance                              100.0
Energy
Water supply                    75.9                                     100.0
and power
Public sector
management
Infrastucture and urban          6.8                            100.0
development
Human resources                 17.3
Environment
Minig and other
extractve
Mui'ea
TOTAL              100.0  100.0  100.0    100.0  100.0  100.0    100.0
Le"ptrument
Adjustment loans           0       0       0        0       0      0         0
Specific investment
1c=nn alnd oth          100.0   1n0   100.0      I      1nlA   n20f)  100n0  100n0
TOTAL              100.0  100.0  100.0    100.0  100.0  100.0    100.0
Disbursements (US$m)
Adjustinent loans          0       0       0        0       0      0         0
Specific investment
loans and odters        9.10   11.10   30.40    24.00   22.0   20.0       23.0
Repayments (US$m)        0.63    0.76    0.71     0.77    -        -
Intere(USSm)             0.83    087    1.47      1.59    -       -
' Reserve projects totaling US$ 69.Om (IDA) could be advanced subject to strategy/capacity development.



Annex A2
24                                            April 1994
Lesotho: Priort   Poverty Ildicators                       Page  1 of  2
A    5 e8                            New
2$J          s320       INOW         ao                      hw
UaMof   ~ ~~~~~O                 ao          Saiwen          LOW-.     jpam
)ndiewtar                                  mwwe                  af    o _    ge    o lw~          Aftis    ncome 
POVERTY
Uppa poveny 1iM                           lowl.t.                  _           _ ,r
Headinw index                             %ofpop.
L,ower povety line                         local  cr.     _           _                     .           . _
Headoat index                             %o(pop. 
GNPprcapita                                  US                   60         230          580         350   3S      0  1,610
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unsiiluw urban wg                          bo  cwr.                .. 
Un*aoild rural wagM
Rwituzslof otaje                                                   -             
Conw  pnF ciaikt                           1987-l00                _          21          168
Low4  com__
Food                                                              - _                    128                        . _
Urban
_ ~~~~~~~~~*                                                             .. ,. 
Rural
SOCLAL INDICATORS
Public cxandiUre acbic  1 sod   eim        %ofGDP                  _           _           12           _
O ross cnoUm.L nuloss
CT=a u                                  %soollspop.               94         10S          107          70         113          I0
Proalc                                       ^74                             87          99           76         122          106
mateo                                                           114         123          115          60          106          98
Mortality
1nfnmotuity                           thoU.   billI            142         126           81         104          70           40
Undt  S monality                              p                   _                      157         177          98           53
Imuiaion
MSeasles                                 % ap.Voup                _           _           70          40          73           70
DPT                                                                                       7 _  75     3S          81           74
Child tnalnurition (under-5)                             ' _                               27            .           -           -
Wife expeutcy
Total                                       Y4                               50           56          51          63           67
Fanabcsnalas                                rtio                1.06        1.06        1.04        1.06         0.95        1.08
Towl fenlity te                         birtperwoman              5.8         5.7         5.1          6.4         3.7         3.5
Mataa motality rate                    100,000 li bih             _           _         220            _            ..
Population growth rate                       Infant mortality rte                         Primary enrollment
(psai                                   (thu o(iiv  i)                                *   a)
6-.                                        250                                          120-
200                                          100
4                                                                                        80so~4 
150
2                                                                                        40
nud6hs     miid70s                           mide r160s    uaidW0s   we                   midGs    mid70s
- Low



Anez AA2
April 1994
25                                    Page 2 of 2
Lsotho: lsources And Enditbue
2S301&f        0       Joel'
torAIM                                                         ae          age       (,w)       Af,         im           gr~
HUMA.4 RESOURCES                                                                 *
Populadon (me..a 991)                     tho                  963       1.187        1.8t3    488,912   312',6S       773,803
Ae dpedncy   o                              ramo              0.80        0.83        0V           0.9 7       0.66       0.71
t:man                                     % ofpop6 63                      10.2       21.0         2.7         40.1       53.9
Popuauion gowth rAze                      aIa %                2.0         2.2         2.           3.0         19         l.
urban                                                         11.7        6.4          5.9         5.0         5.2        3.1
Labor fore (15-64)                        thouan               508         597         826     203.94     1,448.104    302,448
Aicul'tutIe                             9 of bor fotr           92          88                 -           -                 -
Zn4vasy                                       z3                             4                       _ -                     _
Fmale                  .                      .47                           47                 *   37           33
Funale pCr 100 males
Urban                                     m nwnber              _         12S
Rural                                                           _         100           -           -           _           _
; ATUR.A.L RESOURCES
AreA             Rthou.sq4. lm                                  30          30          30       23.066      38AM28     23,990
DAwuy                                   Poptersqn             32.0        39.0        57.0         20.0        77.0        31.0
ApeullanHb                             %oflandam             84.8        782         76.4        51.0        47.4        41.8
Cun8g in aUW ui, l and                    ada                   0.0        0.7         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0
ApuUwai landi under ieiptian                %                 0.0         0.0         0.0         35.         13.7       12.6
Fos ant woodland                         thou. . k                                       ..       6,651       9,197      5,96
Oeforeaon (n)               y ,                    _                                                             -
LNCOME
Yousehoid ulcome
VW* oftop 20%othousholds                %oim*                   _           _           _.                      ..          _
Shae ofbovom 40%  oftowho*lds
Shae of bonorm 20% ofbOuadlds
LXPE.NDMRE
Food                                      %ofGoP                 _           __
Staple                                                         _           _           _            _           _     
me. ash, mlk. cbe cop                                                                                                  44*418
Cern!a iimpoits                       tu. m~ietric              24          54          97       7,238       36,008     44,418
Fodatid in GIIS                              .                  _14                    30       2.677        6,669      4.047
Fo*dpmdua*ioI per GaP                    197941-100            115         105          76          94         122         101
Futilizer ooesw~tion                        krba               2.0         4.0         13.0        14.5        47J        94.2
Share of icewwinGDP                       %ofGDP              62.2        2&7         12.6        22           2S.7
Houing                                    % of CDP               .           -                 -                 -
Aveege household siz                 palwun perhouawold          -           4
Urban                                        .                              4           _           .,          _
Vied intvautmnt housin                    %ofGP                  .. o5
Fudl and powtr                                                                                           of GDP  _3 5 0 
uV ootsumpuon per ecpita              kg ofoil eqav.           0           0           0         100         350       1,249
Households with delwiciiy
urbSa                                  % of boldt               _           _           _           _
Rural                                        .                  _           _           _           _           _
Traport and communlao                     %3ofGP                 _.          _           _
Flzd inv u: osnspon ejuipat                   '                            3.9
Tol toa  ldth                                km                              -       4,0       _       _
IvnESTME.T IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Realth                 c                  %  ofpop.              ..        _ _
PopAlon per paysii                         penon            20,063      30.247      14,306
Populzion per nurse                                          4,698       3,S57           .
Population pr tos$al b1                       *                  _         597                    1.328       1,048        509
Acass to sate waz                         %ofpop.                -        17.0        36.0        34.7         70.6
Uban                                         *                           4561.0      65.0        74.3         79.3
Rurnl                      P.                *                           14.0        30.0        242          6328
Ornl rehydymtion tapy (under-5)           % of as               .           _          68          35          32
Educaton
Grom eniol1me: Mado
S-*nuy                                   ofsdool-agepP.          4          13          26          18          44          56
Femalc  *          4          14          3t          14          37
unpilr:e io:p imary                    pupilspetcr              57          53          55          39          39          25
Nupilaeacher rtio: seudaz2 p                                    20          26          2t           -          20           _
Pupils reating   da 4                    %rofoheorg              _          79          64          69
Rpeazerraza:priinary                   %oftou.leal               _           6          22
litera                                %ofpoP.(agel)             41           _          26          51          39
Female                               %offeL(sege.5+)            _                      16          62          52
?Newpaoer C-=euZation                    per thou. pop           ..          1          32           5
Soutce: World Bank Wawgotr E coedk Dqauncav Al 1993



Anne% A3
26                                       Apr      1994
Page  1 of 3
Leotho - Ke   Econouic  Indicators
'------- -----.-.----v-----------..*-..........ActL( ...........           .Pro jeatd .......ed.
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994      1995      1996
... ... *.........................   ............................................ _.................... . .....
National Accounts
(X GOP at current Market Prices)
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)            100.01   100.0X   100.01   100.01   100.01 a                       .....
Agriculture                            17.4X    16.71    10.0X      7.81      8.31    ----      -----
Industry                               29.51    32.01    35.6X    37.91    39.01   ---- -  -             ..-
services                               53.1X    51.31    54.41    54.31    52.71    ----    ..           .
Total Consumption                       151.01   149.81   157.31   147.2X   143.91   120.51   122.51   121.81
Gross Domestic Fixed InvestXmnt           63.61    74.0X    73.11    72.81    77.8X    70.01    67.2X    53.9X
Goverrment Investment                   24.9%    24.31    20.81    17.61    16.81    14.61    15.31    15.1%
Private Investment                      26.91    27.71    23.9X    25.01    25.81    22.1%    22.61    22.71
Exports of GOFS                           12.41      9.91    11.71    14.7X    15.31    13.31    14.11    14.81
Imports of GNFS                          128.21   133.01   140.81   134.1X   136.41   117.2X   114.41   101.41
Gross Domestic Savings                   -51.0%   -49.8X   -57.31   -47.2X   -43.9%   .20.5X   -22.5S   -21.81
Gross National Savings                    40.41    50.11    47.41    47.71    49.81    44.11    4.21    41.21
lemorandum item
Gross Domestic Product
(USS million at current prices)          497.0    583.0    628.3    716.6    738.0    983.8   1048.5   1157.6
Gross national product per
capita (USS, Attas mthod)                523.2    555.2    575.0    587.0    610.0    635.0    670.0    720.0
Real annual grouth rates
Gross doaestic product
market prices                          11.91      4.6X     1.41     2.S      7.3X     10.9X      7.3X     3.7X
Gross domestic incoma                              ...      ...                ...       ...       ...
Real arnual per capita
growth rates
Gross domestic product
at market prices                         9.3X      2.01    -1.21    .0.11      4.71      8.31      4.7X     1.1X
Total consumption                        -2.81    *4.8X      0.9X    -7.0X      2.6%      3.3%      2.5%     1.61
Private consumption                      11.01    -3.31    -2.11   t10.21       1.91      2.71      2.11     1.11
............................................................................................................



27                                    April 1994
Page 2 of 3
Lest o Key EAonomic JndcatorS
................            ....  ..............*ACtu  ...............  ............Projected ............
198      M90     1991     1992      1993      1994      1995     1996
.........................................................  ................. ................................. .....................................
elease of peaits
CUSS.)
Exports of GOFS                          102.6    106.2    105.7    126.6    113.9    126.4    145.9    169.5
Nerchandi   (F B03)                      66.0      5S.4     57.5    105.2       94.7    105.0    121.3    141.0
Iports of CWfS                          664.7    825.0   1071.7    929.0    918.8   1007.3   1074.3   1086.3
Nerchandise (FMB)                       593.3    743.2    851.3    876.5    866.9    950.4   1013.6   1024.9
Resource 8 Lance                        -562.1   *7 8.8  -966.0   -802.4   -804.9   -880.9   -928.4   -916.7
Not Current Transfers                      4.2       4.8      2.8       2.6       3.8      3.6       3.7       3.8
Current Accont BtamLce
(After off icial Cpital grants)          -95.3   .131.2   .360.9    -70.3   -207.3   -247.1   -237.3   -146.1
Net foreign direct investmnt               13.4      17.2      7.3      14.9       7.7      7.9       8.3       8.5
Net long term loaw                         38.2      31.3     36.9      43.4      40.2     39.6      44.2      47.2
other capital (nMt)                          64        73      305       116       238      288       273       164
Change In resrves                           3.7    -25.4    -44.3    -91.9   -110.0   -104.8    -85.6   -100.5
NeMmoranAu teiw
SP Reoure 8alnce / GOP                   -113.1%  -123.3%  -153.7%  -112.0%  -109.1%   -89.S%   -88.5%   -79.2%
Real aml    growth rates
Export,                                     ..        ..        ..     35.6      16.1     11.5      12.0      12.0
Inorts                                      ..        ..       ..       1.2   - 8.6        8.7       6.1       4.4
................... ............................................   _  *  _...................



Anex A3
April 1994
28                                  Page 3 of 3
Leotho - Key Ecnnooc nd=tors
.................----..------....--......----..--...-....-  ActuP. ---------    ------------Projected ........
1989     1990     1991      199      1993      1994     1995      1996
.....................................................................................................................
Pubtic finance C% of GDP at current morket prices)
Current Account Batance  deficit C-) 1/          -19.2%   -22.5%   -57.4%    *9.8%   -28.1%   -25.1%   -22.6%   -12.6%
Current Revenues                                  40.4%    41.7%    47.3%    49.9%    52.2%    43.1%    41.7%    39.8%
Current Expeditures                               33.5%    30.3%    36.0%    35.4%    35.3%    29.2%    28.2%    26.9%
Capital Expenditures                              26.5%    24.8%    20.6%     17.7%    17.5%    15.2%    14.7%    14.0%
Budget Deficit C-) or SurpLus                     -7.9%    -1.0%    *0.6"      3.7%      S.1%      4.1%     3.9%     3.7%
Forefgn financing                                 9.146    8.45X    7.29%    6.89%    7.13X    5.77%    5.59%    5.33%
Monetary Indicators
HZ/GOP Cat current market prices)                 42.7%    40.0%    38.0%    35.4%        ..
Growth of H2                                      13.4%     8.4%      9.2%     9.8X       .....
Private sector credit growth/total
credit growth 2/                                -11.6%  -255.1%  -726.4%  -130.8%        .....
Price Indices (1987s100)
Merchandise export price index                      ..       ..        ..        ..       ..
Merchandise fmport price index                      ..        ..       ..        ..       ..        ..
Terms of Trade Index                                ..       ..        ..        .        ..
Reat Effective Exchange Rate Cl 95u100)
(USS/LCU)                                       94.3     92.2     94.2      97.4    102.3    .....    -----    .....
Real interest rates 3/                            -1.9      1.4      -4.7     -6.6        ..
Consuner Price Index                              14.7%    11.6%    17.7%    17.2%       9.0%   .....   .....    .....
GOP Deftlator C% growth rate)                     13.1%    10.8%    13.3%    15.1%       9.9%             -----    .....
.....................................................................................................................
1/ Includes LH;.P investmnt flports
2/ Lesotho's towal credit has ben docLining wtiLe governret Is a net creditor to the banking system
3/ CalcuLated based on deposit rates
denotes information not available



*Anne A4
April 1994
2.9 -Page  I of 1
LTeto - Key EIomic IudicatO
.........-......................................---..-. -  -A------*----  Atl ------ --------*- --->tected- ........ -
1989    1990    1991       t992    13        19       1995    1996
total debt outstandino  n diursed
(TOO) in USS)                                312.5   3?3.6   412.8    41.8    502.6    567.0   609.0   634.7
Net disbumts (Us$)                              38.2    31.0    36.9    43.4        40.2     39.6    44.2    47.2
Total debt service (TUS) (Sm)                   21.1    22.0    26.7    33.9    48.4         33.9    36.5    39.3
Debt and debt service indIcators:
TOO/XGS                                         65.32    67.32    71.62    71.9X    86.72    92.42    92.0X    89.2X
TOO/GDP                                         62.9%    4.12    65.72   61.7X    68.1%    57.62    58.12    54.8t
TDS/XGS                                          4.42    4.0X      4.62     5.52     8.32     5.52     5.52     5.62
I=30 exposure fndicators:
t9RO Debt Service/Ptlic 0S                      ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Prof Creditor DS/Putlic DS                    47.42   45.02   47.6    43.1X    28.3        46.6X    48.8X    52.42
T9M  Debt Service/Exports                       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
IFC (USSM)
Loans                                           ..       ..       ..       ..       ..        ..      *...
Eqity..                                                  .        ..       ...                ....
NIGA
NtGA guarantees (USS)                            ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
....................................................................................................................



30
Annex AS
April 1994
Page 1 of 1
Lesotho: Status of Bank Group Operations
Statement of IBRD Loans and Credits
(as of April 7, 1994)
Undisbursed      Last ARRP
relative to   supervision rating'
Loan or     Fiscal                                                                 appraisal     Devlpmt.   Overall
credit      year      Borrower    Purmose         IBRD     IDA       Undisbursed   proiection    objectives  status
16 Credits Closed                                           102.3
C 18970     88        GOL          Land mgt. &               16.0           7.01          7.0       2           3
Cons.
C 18980     88        GOL          Urban II                  20.4          15.2'          15.2      3           3
C 20S90     90        GOL          Health/PopII   --         12.1           6.7           4.4       2           3
C 21950     91        GOL         Ind/Ag Ind      ---        21.0          15.4           7.4        1          1
C 22870     92        GOL          Ed.Sect.       -          25.2          22.7           5.0       2           2
C 24000     92        GOL          Infra.Eng.     -           9.8           8.3           5.7        1         2
C 33930     92        LHDA         Highland       110.0      --            82.6          34.0       2           2
water
Total (IBRD and IDA)                                         206.82
Of which has been paid                                       5.36
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                      110.0    201.43
Amount sold                                           0.0       0.0
Of which repaid                                     0.0       0.0
Total undisbursed                                                           164.85
'Government has requested closing of projects during CY94
Two projects approved in 1988 have experienced substantial disbursement lags. Because these are problem projects, unlikely
to meet their development objectives, the Government has requested that they be cancelled.
Well performing projects in Lesotho also experience substantial delays in disbursements. The major problems are: (a) shortage of
trained/experienced staff results in inadequate knowledge of Bank's disbursement procedures and procedures to operate special accounts;
(b) redundant and inadequate procedures to channel disbursement documentation from project entities to central disbursement sources (e.g.
special accounts). As a result often one finds that resources have been spent, but disbursement claims are not processed. This has also resulted
in a problem of inactive special accounts although funds are being spent.
To remedy these problems, a number of disbursements workshops have been planned for the end of FY94 either in Washington or in
the region. Nominees from each project entity are expected to attend. These workshops should substantially contribute to a core group of staff
in the country having adequate training and experience in bank disbursement procedures, and thereby should contribute to clearing up
remaining problems.



31
Annex A6
April 1994
Page I of I
Lesotho: Statement of IFC Investments
(as of March 31, 1994)
Amount in US$ million
Fiscal     Obligor                      Business             Loan      Equity      Total
,year,
1978       Lesotho Quality Aggregates   Mining               0.3        0.03        0.33
1990       Upper Qeme                   Cement and lime      0.2         -          0.12



32
Schedule A
Page 1 of 1
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Estimated cost orfunding agency                           Local          Foreign           Total
A. Estimated costs of the project
Privatization
Technical assistance to Privatization Unit                 0.0             3.0              3.0
Creation of Privatization Unit                             0.5             0.1              0.6
Technical assistance to market and manage LIH unit trust   0.0             0.4              0.4
Technical assistance to support public awareness           0.0             0.2              0.2
Costs of redundant staff of privatized companies           0.3             0.0              0.3
Private sector development
Studies to support legal reform                            0.0             0.3              0.3
Support to Law Reform Commnission                          0.0             0.1              0.1
Studies to support private sector development
(review of labor market issues, review of
utility rate structure)                                  0.0             0.6              0.6
Support to Business Advisory and Promotion Service         0.5             0.0              0.5
Support to Investment Promotion Center                     0.3             0.0              0.3
Support to Lesotho Chamber of Commerce                     0.2             0.0              0.2
Support to Deparment of Lands, Surveys and Physical Plan'ng  0.2           0.0              0.2
Capital market development
Technical assistance to develop associated regulations     0.0             0.1              0.1
Technical Assistance to support development of NBFIs       0.0             0.1              0.1
Training and institution building
Privatization commnittee                                   0.0             0.5              0.5
Entrepreneurship training                                  0.0             0.3              0.3
Legal training                                             0.0             0.1              0.1
Implementation Fund                                        0.5             2.5              3.0
Total base costs                                           2.5             8.3             10.8
Contingencies                                              0.1             1.5              1.6
Total project costs                                        2.6             9.8             12.4
B. Financhig Plan
IDA                                                        1.0            10.0             11.0
Government                                                 1.4             0.0              1.4



33
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Procurement Method
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Category                             ICB        LCB         Other      Not Bank     Total
Financed
Civil Works                            0.8         2.5          0.0        0.0         3.3
(0.3)      (2.5)         (0.0)      (0.0)       (2.8)
Equipment and vehicles                 0.0         0.0          0.3        0.0         0.3
(0.0)      (0.0)         (0.3)      (0.0)       (0.3)
Consultancies, studies, training       0.0         0.0          7.3        0.0         7.3
(0.0)      (0.0)         (7.3)       0.0        (7.3)
Other (recurrent costs and
unallocated contingencies)             0.0         0.0          0.0        1.5          1.5
(0.0)      (0.0)         (0.0)      (0.6)       (0.6)
Total                                  0.8         2.5          7.6        1.5         12.4
(0.3)      (2.5)         (7.6)      (0.6)      (I 1.0)
Note: IDA contributions are shown in parentheses.
* To be procured through the Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office IAPSO) of UNDP



34
Nchedule B
Page 2 of 2
GOVERNDMET OF LESOTHO
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
B. Disbursements
Category                  Amount of Credit            Percentage to be
napced
Consultant Services,
Studies and Training            6.7                   100% of expenditures
Equipment and Vehicles          0.3                   100% of expenditures
Implementation Fund
Civil Works                   2.5                    85% of expenditures
Consultant's Services         0.1                    85% of expenditures
Equipment and Vehicles        0.1                     85% of expenditures
Operating Costs               0.1                     85% of expenditures
Strengthening of the Ministry
of Home Affairs
Consultant's Services         0.1                    85% of expenditures
Equipment and Vehicles        0.05                    85% of expenditures
Operating Costs               0.05                    85% of expenditures
Project Preparation Facility    0.4                   100% of expenditures
Unallocated                     0.6
Total Credit Amount             11.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
1995  n6   1997 1998  1999 2000
Annual                            1.0   1.0   1.0  1.0   3.0   4.0
Cumulative                        1.0   2.0   3.0  4.0   7.0   11.0



35
schoftl C
Page 1 of 1
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPWNT
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Credit Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:     18 months
Prepared by:               Government of Lesotho with IDA assistance
Pirst IDA mission:         October 1991
Appraisal mission departure:  June 4, 1993
Date of negotiations:      March 29-31, 1994
planned date of effectiveness:  September 1994
List of relevant project
completion reports:        The Lesotho National Development Corporation Project
(Cr. 702-LSO)
Second Lesotho National Development Corporation Project
(Cr. 985-LSo)
This report is based on an appraisal mission which visited Lesotho in June 1993. The mission was
led by Thyra Riley (Task Manager and Sr. Operations Officer) and assisted by Dirk Elsen (Counsel),
Refael Benvenisti (Investment Promotion Specialist - Consultant), and Claire Wotton (Lawyer -
Consultant) and Judith Aidoo (Capital Markets Specialist - Consultant). Earlier preparatory work was
assisted by Oliver Haggerty (Privatization Specialist - Consultant) and E. S. Savas (Privatization
Specialist, Consultant). Stephen Denning is the Department Director and David Cook is the Division
Chief.



36
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT FOR
A PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Section A: Detailed Project Description
Background
1. Following a period of slow growth in real gross domestic product (GDP) in the first half of the 1980s
(averaging 1.7 percent a year), real GDP grew considerably in the five years from 1987 to 1991, achieving
an average annual growth rate of more than 7.7 percent. This growth was due in large part to a 16
percent growth rate of manufacturing and construction, which counterbalanced a drought-induced -22
percent rate of growth in agriculture. Under the government's structural adjustment program, substantial
progress has been made in controlling expenditures and putting in place revenue enhancement measures.
As a result, the budget deficit has been virtually eliminated (0.6 percent of GDP in 1990/91), making the
govermment a net repayer to the banking system and reversing earlier concerns that bank financing would
not be available to the private sector.
2. Lesotho's economy remains deeply vulnerable to a 35 percent unemployment rate, which is
increasing as employment opportunities in South Africa are declining. Lesotho's resource base is quite
limited. Although the agricultural sector contributes at least partially to the income and employment of
approximately 65 percent of all households, it accounts for only 15 percent of GDP, or 9.5 percent of
gross national product (GNP). Approximately half of Lesotho's male labor force is employed in gold and
coal mines in South Africa. The remittances of migrants are a major source of income in the economy,
accounting for about half of the country's GNP. Manufacturing and construction continue to register steady
growth and today make up about 36 percent of GDP. Commerce and government remain the largest
contributors to GoDP: government services (including the commercial parastatals) accounting for almost
half of the production of this sector. The clear trend in the sectoral distribution of production and
employment is that commerce and industry led by the private sector will continue to grow because
agriculture has limited capacity to absorb excess labor.
3. The current project builds on the ongoing Industrial and Agroindustries Development Project (LADP),
which initiated substantial policy reforms to improve the environment for private investment. That project
also includes a component to commercialize and privatize the agroindustrial parastatals and several
components to establish new investment promotion facilities. Foreign investment in textile production and
other labor-intensive industries, especially by nationals from the Far East and South Africa, contributes
to strong sectoral growth and provides significant levels of employment for Basotho. The IADP also
includes measures to increase the access that indigenous businesses have to project and equity financing.
As a next step, the government indicates its commitment to rationalize its parastatal sector and to
undertake further measures to strengthen the private sector.
4. The government has shown commendable commitment to the privatization and private sector
development objectives of the proposed project. Over the past year the World Bank has assisted the
government in preparing a privatization strategy and program, which was discussed and finally agreed
in July 1992. Since then, the government has passed a statement of privatization policies (appendix A).
The Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (the parastatal that promotes indigenous
entrepreneurship) has been restructured. Co-Op Lesotho and the Bus and Foreign Transport Services (the
government-owned agricultural marketing and transport monopolies, respectively) are being effectively
displaced by the private sector. The Lesotho Building Finance Corporation has been folded into the



37
commercially operated Lesotho Bank, which is scheduled to be privatized in an early phase of the
proposed program. The National Abattoir and Feedlot Complex is being commercialized and plans are
for new management contractors to prepare the company for privatization. The Lesotho National
Development Corporation has sold Pioneer Motors to a private indigenous investor. The Lesotho Bank
Act has been amended to permit it to sell shares and to offer unit trusts as a product. This is expected
to be an important vehicle for selling shares of some privatized companies to the public.
5. Over five years, the total net proceeds of the program are estimated at M148.3 million (US$49.4
million), including net cost savings (resulting from the elimination of subsidies to privatized companies)
of M51.4 million (US$17.1 million) and conservatively estimated net sales proceeds of M96.8 million
(US$32.3 million) The program is expected to result in about 500 redundant persons and provides MI
million in severance costs, which will be financed from the proceeds of the divestiture program.
6. The following paragraphs describe in greater detail government's objectives and strategy for
privatization and private sector development and how the project would assist in achieving them.
The Parastatal Subsector: Objectives, Strategy, and Issues
7. The parastatal sector consists of about twenty companies and financial institutions in which the
government of Lesotho directly owns majority shares. Three of these parastatals nave a number of
subsidiaries and associated companies so that, through them, a further thirty-one parastatals exist by virtue
of the goverrnent's indirect ownership of shares. In addition, the government has a minority interest in
six companies. Some sectors are dominated by state-owned enterprises, which were initially established
to ensure domestic ownership of "strategic" industries and services in the absence of an indigenous private
sector. Some of these enterprises today represent a drain on the government's budget; they divert
resources from more efficient uses; in some cases, thty crowd out the private sector. In agroindustries
and transportation, for example, where small indigenous enterprises tend to thrive in other countries,
publicly owned companies predominate in Lesotho. A subset of "strategic" investments made by the
Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) continues to incur losses and to drain energy and
resources from LNDC's role in development. In the meantime, LNDC is seen as the "indigenous investor"
of last resort, excluding private indigenous investors, whose potential as a future source of self-
employment and investment deserves to be encouraged.
8. Appendix B summarizes the government's timetable and program of privatizations. Preparation of
this agreed program was guided by the government's principal objectives, which are to concentrate on
reforming those parastatals that, in order of priority:
*    Offer scope for reducing the need for support from the treasury
o    Require major capital investment that the government is unlikely to be able to raise without
private sector participation
o    Offer scope for improved profitability but are constrained by a lack of industry skill or ready
access to markets for their products or services
o    Are known to be attractive to private sector investors and could therefore yield important sales
proceeds and ongoing tax revenues to the treasury and act as flagships for successful
privatization.



38
9.    The program is designed to encourage Basotho ownership and favors privatization options that
include at least some Basotho participation in ownership (such as private placement, share offerings to
the public, employee participation, or full ownership). The first years of the program concentrate on
achieving broad Basotho ownership. By assuring that benefits accrue to Basotho citizens, the credibility
of the program would be established in preparation for later privatizations that may require foreign
ownership to achieve needed transfers of technology and heavy infusions of capital.
10.   The program is expected to result in about 500 redundant persons (out of a total of 7,700
parastatal employees). Severance costs will be financed from the proceeds of the divestiture. The private
sector development program has a strong component to reemploy redundant workers in new business
activities that will be supported by the Business Advisory and Promotion Services, by ongoing
microenterprise and small and medium enterprise financing initiatives, and by ongoing efforts to promote
investment and create new jobs in the private sector. Details of these efforts are discussed below.
The Private Sector: Constraints and Strategy
11.   Although the government professes its commitment to private sector development, there is limited
understanding of what this entails. It is, therefore, not surprising that there is little, in practice, to
demonstrate substantial commitment to, or concerted implementation of, any policy of private sector
development. No easy, open relationship exists between the government and the private sector. This is
not surprising: (a) the government (political regime) has in the past not been clearly supportive of private
business (most of its involvement is channeled through the LNDC), (b) the private sector is relatively small
and lacks an entrepreneurial tradition, (c) the largest private enterprises are owned predominantly by
foreigners (primarily South Africans), and (d) the private sector is poorly organized and incapable of
articulating aud presenting the government with popular demands. Lesotho's private sector consists of
an enclave-like formal sector that is dominated by foreign firms and an indigenous enterprise sector where
fnancing and promotional needs have only recently begun to be addressed in policy and other
interventions.
12.   The Indigenous Enterprise Sector. The great majority of Basotho are directly or indirectly
involved in agriculture. As such, the society/culture tends to be rural and oriented toward persons rather
than consumption. In accordance with customsry law, each Masotho is expected to show deference to a
traditional, powerful, strict hierarchical and hereditary system of chiefs. The attitude of these chiefs
restricts the ability of government to implement policies that promote development of the private sector,
particularly outside urban areas. In addition, the obligation to share in an extended family system
mitigates against individual entrepreneurship in theory and in practice. Nonetheless, enterprise is an
integral aspect of 30 percent of all Basotho households. Indeed, in the absence of employment in the
formal sector-only about 30 percent of all new entrants to the labor market find jobs in the formal
sector-small enterprise makes a critically important contribution to household incomes.
13.   In August and September 1990, a national survey of small-scale enterprises was carried out in
Lesotho by the GEMINI (Growth and Equity through Microenterprise Investments and Institutions) project.
The survey was conducted on a random sample basis and was intended to provide a national picture of
the characteristics of the sector. The results of the survey indicate that small-scale enterprises in Lesotho
have the following characteristics:
o    103,000 small-scale enterprises employ 161,284 people out of an estimated labor force of 800,000



39
*    80 percent of these enterprises are found in rural localities, 12 percent are in Maseru, and 8
percent are in small towns
o    Half are in manufacturing, about one-third are in trade or commerce, and the rest are in services
o    72 percent are owned by women; 99 percent are owned by Basotho
o    The average age of the enterprise is 7.5 years; about three-fourths have been in business nineteen
years or more.
The enterprises were asked to cite the major obstacles to the growth of their businesses. They indicated
weak markets for products and lack of working capital.
14.   Under the IADP, the government undertook several measures to show more support for its
indigenous private sector. First, the Business Advisory and Promotion Services was established to
coordinate information about business opportunities, training, financing, and advisory services for small
and mnedium-scale enterprises. Second, a line of credit was established to support project-based term
lending through commercial banks to small and medium enterprises. Third, an equity line was established
in LNDC to fill a void in the financial system by providing a source of equity financing, which was
deemed particularly important for start-up companies in an environment with high interest rates. To date,
the project has had mixed experience with promoting and supporting small indigenous enterprises. The
equity line has not moved, due in part to the LNDC's lack of experience in dealing with small indigenous
enterprises. The line of credit through commercial banks has focused primarily on larger enterprises,
while the needs of microenterprises go unmet. The coordinating function of the Business Advisory and
Promotion Services has been limited because the nongovernmental institutions that are supposed to
provide services are weak and cannot meet the needs of their clients. The Business Advisory and
Promotion Services is thus being pressured to provide services directly.
15.   These issues will be addressed in the proposed project through (a) a study and plan to develop
a program for financing microenterprises that focuses on small and medium enterprises with a
demonstrated track record and potential for growth (US$0.1 million), (b) office support (US$0.1 million)
and advisory assistance (US$0.1 million) to operate the microenterprise lending scheme, (c) further
support for the Business Advisory and Promotion Services to coordinate a program to strengthen
nongovernmental support institutions for the benefit of indigenous enterprises. This support would be
financed by the Small Business Development Fund and under the same administrative procedures as
established under the Industrial and Agroindustries Project (US$0.1 million), (d) a local consultant
marketing advisor (US$0.1 million) and a local consultant project preparation advisor (US$0.1 million)
would be hired to address specific constraints identified by BAPS and indigenous businessmen.
16.   Foreign Investmient. During the past twenty-seven years, Lesotho has managed to build a small
but significant industrial sector. Contributing less than 1 percent of GDP in the mid-1960s, the sector now
accounts for about 11 percent. Over a twenty-year period, the sector has grown an average of 18 percent
a year, which is exceptional by the standards of contemporary Africa. This growth has been due largely
to a surge in foreign investment in the late 1970s and into the 1980s and was motivated by a mixture of
trade-related reasons and Lesotho's comparative advantage with respect to labor costs. Trade-related
issues include intensified global economic sanctions against the Republic of South Africa. Also, to avoid
quotas established under the Multi-Fibre Agreement, certain Asian producers relocated part of their
production to countries such as Lesotho and Mauritius. In recent years, alternative locations in Southern
Africa, such as Mauritius, have decreased in importance due to labor shortages, and Lesotho has become
more attractive to Asian investors. Lesotho's embryonic electronics sector also owes its existence largely



40
to these trade issues. Thus, half the firms in the sector are wholly owned by foreigners or are joint
ventures with foreign partners. Firms owned by South Africans avoiding sanctions have been particularly
important, representing half of all foreign-owned firms in the sector.
17.   These firms have made industrial exports the most buoyant element of Lesotho's total exports.
In 1987, manufactured products accounted for nearly 60 percent of total export value, up from only 25
percent in 1981. Indeed, Lesotho's trade regime is reasonably outward oriented. Tariffs and surcharges
of the Southern African Customs Union are relatively low, and duties are refunded on raw materials
embodied in export products. Lesotho's attraction as an investment location is also due to its preferential
market access. First, as a member of the Southern African Customs Union, Lesotho enjoys unrestricted
access to the market of 30 million people in the Republic of South Africa. Second, products made in
Lesotho enjoy duty-free access to the market of 300 million people in the European Economic Community
(EEC) because Lesotho is a signatory of the Lome Convention. Third, the Generalized System of
Preferences (GSP) provides Lesotho with special advantages, particularly in the U.S. and Japanese
markets and, to a lesser extent, in the larger commonwealth countries. Comparable arrangements under
the Nordic/Southern African Development Co-ordination Conference accord and the Preferential Trade
Area in Southern and Eastern Africa, which Lesotho joined in 1984, provide similar benefits.
18.   Lesotho's preferential market access, in conjunction with other favorable aspects of its investment
environment, will continue to be important in attracting RSA and other foreign investors. For one,
Lesotho's wage rates are about one fourth of South Africa's wages. Second, even with the removal of
sanctions, it is unlikely that South Africa, with its high income status will be given EEC or GSP
preferences equivalent to a poor country like Lesotho. Lesotho's major challenge is to recreate an
attractive cost environment to attract exporters, who tend to be very cost conscious. Lesotho's cost
environment in recent years has been steadily eroding as discussed below.
19.   The proposed project would continue efforts begun under the LADP to improve the regulatory and
cost environment. Under that project, the government of Lesotho undertook substantial measures to
improve the environment for foreign investment. The most significant of these was (a) replacing the
administratively complex tax holiday system with a 15 percent flat tax rate as part of the regular corporate
tax system, (b) streamlining the work permit system to provide automatic work permits for key
management and technical experts of foreign companies, (c) setting the minimum wage to take account
of Lesotho's competitive position with other potential investment sites, and (d) establishing an investment
promotion center to promote new investment in the country and provide after-care services for the foreign
investment community. Despite agreement, the attempt to make industrial land more readily available to
foreigners has not been successful.
20.   In preparation for the proposed project, in-depth interviews were conducted to identify (a) the
impact of earlier policy and institutional changes on the attitudes of investors and (b) remaining concerns
that need to be addressed. A summary of those interviews revealed the following:
*    The introduction of a low tax regime and the abolition of the tax holiday incentive are seen as
having greatly improved Lesotho's attraction by reducing administrative delays and uncertainty.
Investors are concerned, however, about planned tax reforms intended to broaden the tax base.
The withholding tax and the capital gains tax should be introduced with extreme caution because
they will have an immediate impact on the country's ability to compete and attract export-oriented
investment.
    Similarly, investors welcome the effort to streamline the process of granting work permits.



41
Investors also raised the following serious concerns:
*    Internal security is one of the most important issues inhibiting investment initiatives by foreign
businesspersons. Investors feel that the safety of persons and property is deteriorating as a result
of the extreme tensions produced by the perception that foreigners are exploiting the country at
the expense of local citizens. Extreme problems with labor relations are compounded by the
extreme poverty of the local population and inadequate and relatively low-paid formal
employment opportunities, which stand in stark contrast to the salaries and living conditions of
the foreign community. The result has been increasing violence in the form of riots, wildcat
strikes, and personal attacks on foreigners.
*    The minimum wage levels in manufacturing are seen to be eroding the competitive edge of
Lesotho in export-oriented manufacturing. Minimum wage levels in the regions of the Southern
Africa Development Co-ordination Conference and the Preferential Trade Area are between M80
and MIOO, and the same levels prevail in South East Asia, where productivity is higher. Lesotho
may have a hard time competing with countries in these areas.
*     The extremely high cost of utilities is a major issue. The current tariff structure is based on
policies of cost recovery, adequate rates of return, and use of cross-subsidization of household
users by industrial users. Combined with issues of operating inefficiencies and system losses,
utility rates for industrial users are often two to three times higher than rates in the Republic of
South Africa. In line with Lesotho's need to attract foreign investment and create employment,
the maintenance of low-cost and reliable services is essential. The evidence is clear that, despite
attractive wage rates, the relatively high cost of utilities substantially reduces Lesotho's attraction
to cost-conscious investors. Since South African investors are an important target of the
investment promotion center, the high cost of services in Lesotho compared to South Africa
constitutes a tremendous barrier to the effectiveness of those efforts.
21.   The proposed project includes studies and development of action plans that address these issues.
The labor market study will focus on ways to encourage greater use of the country's excess labor. The
study/action plan will design steps to address issues related to Lesotho's labor market with a view to
improving productivity and the acquisition of skills and to addressing labor relations issues that have
engendered strikes and violence. The study on utility tariff rate structures will focus on electricity, water,
and telecommunications and will review the full array of issues causing tariff structures for industry to
be less than optimal in light of Lesotho's efforts to promote investment.
22.   The Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of Land, Surveys, and Physical Planning, has already
developed a detailed program to strengthen its ability to administer the Land Act of 1979. The project
will finance implementation of part of the program that seeks to improve the administration of urban
industrial land and thus increase the pace at which land transfers are processed and leases and subleases
are recorded.
23.   Specifically, the project would finance implementation of the reform agreed under the Industrial
and Agroindustries Development Project which provided for industrial land being made available for
private development. The reform was intended to remove LNDC's monopoly on industrial land. US$0.2
million would be available for staff and office support costs to make industrial land available for
development by private individuals. Eligible expenditures would be related to surveying, zoning and
registering of head and sub-leases for industrial land. Disbursement of these flunds would be conditioned
on approval by IDA of an expenditure plan and a satisfactory review of legal documents to transfer at



42
least one large tract of industrial land to the Ministry of Trade as head leasor. The Ministry would
advertize on the availability of leases and subleases, respectively, for indigenous and foreign investors.
24.   The Investment Promotion Center (IPC) is also expected to play an important role in the
privatization and private sector development program. Specifically IPC's role would be to
*     assist with the conduct of a public relations/promotion campaign in Lesotho designed to maximize
domestic investment in the program
0     mobilize foreign technology transfer and investor support for companies scheduled for
commercialization/privatization and where appropriate promote foreign participation
*     advise the Privatization Unit and the government of Lesotho on measures necessary to create a
climate conducive to private sector (foreign and domestic) participation in the program
o     assist by acting as "mid-wife" in joint venture and related negotiations
25.   Additional resources to IPC to carry out these tasks would be (a) a research economist to identify
potential technical partners and other capability (US$0.1 million for 5 years), (b) a marketing executive
to market specific companies to outside investors (US$0.1 for 5 years), (c) additional budget resources
(US$0. 1 for 5 years) to support advertising/public relations efforts, to purchase information on potential
technical partners, and to finance short-term attachment/orientation training where appropriate. It is
anticipated that both positions would be filled by local consultants who would serve as staff to IPC.
26.   Also the proposed project will establish a Private Sector Advisory Group consisting of prominent
and representative members of the private sector and including, among others, Lesotho Bank, Barclays
Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, the Law Society, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the
Association of Lesotho Employers, the Association of Women in Business, the Federation of Women
Lawyers, and the Lesotho Chamber of Commerce. The purpose of this group, which will also have
senior-level representation from the ministries of fiance, planning, interior, agriculture, and justice, will
be to allow a high-powered institutional forum the opportunity, on a regular basis, to understand
government policy regarding the private sector, to express its opinion on matters affecting the private
sector, and to develop specific proposals for change. It is hoped that this venture will lead to a results-
oriented process of consultation and active problem solving between the government and the private
sector, including proposals for privatization.
Capital Market Development
27.   The financial system in Lesotho has sufficient capital to finance the privatization effort as
currenly planned. Approximately M26 million is needed each year to finance the privatization program,
or MA126.5 million over a five-year period. Savings in Lesotho's financial system is composed of about
M1,005 million of deposits in commercial banks and insurance companies of which M85 million are in
fixed-term deposits; organized pools of capital, like the Miners Deferred Compensation Fund, which has
M36.9 million in deposits; and the informal sector, which has M367.6 million in various savings
schemes. Employee pension funds could also be an important vehicle to pennit the purchase of shares
by the public. In addition, the government can provide term financing directly or indirectly to facilitate
sales. A small fraction of these resources, if properly mobilized would clearly be adequate for the
acquisition ei planned divestments.



43
28.   Several constraints exist, however, on the country's ability to mobilize funds in the formal sector:
*    With more than Ml billion in overall assets, the formal financial sector is dominated by
commercial banks, which hold 72 percent of the sector's assets, mostly in short-term accounts.
The majority of companies scheduled for divestiture need medium- and long-term capital to be
restructured effectively.
*    Lesotho Bank, which holds almost two-thirds of the banking sector's total assets, is itself a
parastatal. The same is true of the largest nonbank financial institutions, including the LNDC and
the Lesotho National Insurance Company. As parastatals themselves, they are not effective
vehicles through which to privatize parastatals.
Therefore, the formal sector is not expected to play its traditional role in the divestment effort. It can,
however, create new financial structures and instruments to mobilize medium- and long-term funds to be
distributed through bank networks to the Basotho public.
29.   The role of the government will also be limited by budgetary constraints, although it should, with
the steering committee on financial matters, review its resources with a view to financing certain sales
to employees and strategic partners.
30.   It is recognized that the privatization program must gain the support of the people of Lesotho and
encourage them to participate. Members of the public genuinely fear that privatization of parastatals will
produce an economy owned by foreigners (especially South Africans) and by a small group of wealthy
Basotho. Various schemes, including the creation of a steering committee on financial matters, have been
devised to promote public participation in the program. The pace of the privatization program will be
determined in large part by how quickly the capital market can be developed. The Lesotho Bank has been
identified as a natural distributor of investments for purchase by individual Basotho. It will conduct a pilot
program to raise monies, through a unit trust, from target investor groups-miners, civil servant savings
schemes, infnrmal savings mechanisms, pension funds, and trade unions and cooperatives-and to invest
them in privatized parastatals. If successful, this approach, which includes technical assistance, can be
replicated by other commercial banks, and possibly insurance companies, over time.
31.   The objectives of the capital market development component of the proposed project are (a) to
create sources of medium- and long-term financing for the privatization effort and (b) to ensure the
participation of a broad cross-section of the Basotho population in the privatization program. The
underlying strategy will center on developing and strengthening both nonbank financial institutions and
capital markets to develop sources of term capital. The strategy will be implemented along three
interrelated fronts:
o    The development of a supportive legislative, regulatory, administrative, and tax framework for
new financial institutions and products (for example, unit trusts and employee stock ownership
plans)
*    The development and strengthening of the financial sector, particularly nonbank financial
institutions
*    The organization and management of private pools of capital within the local economy.



44
The Legal Sector
32.   Lesotho has a dual system of laws that combines received and local law, Received law is based
on a combination of the Roman-Dutch law that ruled the Cape Colony during the period 1871-83 and
the British law that was applied to Basutoland, as a British protectorate, until 1966. Although received
law has been declared the common law of Lesotho, customary law survived (particularly in the area of
family law) and was actually strengthened by the establishment of customary courts. These days, critical
developments are reshaping the legal and administrative environment. The 1966 constitution (which was
suspended in 1970) has been replaced by a new 1993 constitution. The constitution guarantees every
person equal protection under the law and forbids the arbitrary seizure of property. In addition, the March
1993 elections resulted in a new democratically elected parliament and government.
33.   The dualism in the law finds its mirror image in a dual court system, one administering received
law, the other administering customary law. The primacy of received law has been established through
appeals procedures allowing the decisions of customary law courts to be appealed to received law courts.
The 1993 constitution vests judicial power in a court of appeal, a high court, subordinate courts and court
martial, and other tribunals established by parliament; it also institutes their independence. At present,
Lesotho has ten subordinate courts, one in each district.
34.   Lesotho's legal sector is generally recognized to be unprepared to meet fully the private sector's
demand for legal services. Problems exist both on the resource side (i.e. human, material and institutional
resources) as well as with respect to the substantive law governing the private sector. Even though the
law is not seen to be in a desperate state, various areas of substantive law, like land law and the position
of women, impose hurdles for entrepreneurial activity. In addition, several gaps have been identified
particularly in the area of competition law and capital markets. The main reason for the unresponsiveness
of the legal sector, however, can be traced to lack of resources. Serious problems exist at virtually all
levels: making the law, disseminating the law, enforcing the law, the settlement of disputes, etc.
35.   In view of the above, a comprehensive and thorough review of the legal sector (the legal
framework study) will be carried out under the proposed project. The study shall examine the various
institutions and activities of the legal sector and develop a strategy and action plan aimed at strengthening
Lesotho's legal and institutional framework. The overall objective is to strengthen the legal sector to
enable it to provide, on a sustainable basis, the level of legal services required to meet the needs of the
private sector. Detailed terms of reference for the study are attached in appendix E.
36.   The strategy study will be coordinated by Lesotho's Law Reform Commission. The Commission
will consolidate the results of the study into a comprehensive strategy and action plan for the legal sector.
Legislation that allows the Law Reform Commission to take on this assignment (The Law Reform
Commission Act) became effective 19 December 1993. The Commission will be composed of public and
private sector lawyers. It is intended that the Commission will be supported under the project and that
it will gradually take on the role of preparing proposals for the reform of substantive laws.
37.   The following paragraphs provide details on some of the legal sector issues which will be
addressed in the legal framework study.
38.   Dispute Settlement Mechanisms. Extraordinarily long delays occur in setting down cases for
hearing, in dealing with interlocutory applications (whether contested or not), and in rendering judgments
once trials have occurred. The resolution of commercial disputes seems to get limited attention. Local
attorneys tend to focus on matters of family and criminal law. As a result, conmnercial banks consider
foreclosures to be virtually a non-starter (resulting in higher costs of fmnancing). There is a shortage of



45
qualified magistrates and judges and of support staff. The terms and condition of employment of judges
needs review. Furthermore, Lesotho has no alternative mechanism for resolving disputes, including
commercial or other types of arbitration. Efficient mechanisms for resolving disputes must exist in order
for business to operate efficiently. In this regard, a detailed, well-balanced, and realistic plan of reform
needs to be developed.
39.   Access to Laws. Investors need to be informed about the rights and obligations that govern
businesses operating in Lesotho. Access to laws and other relevant information (such as court decisions)
is of importance in this regard. Unfortunately, gaining access to the statutory materials of Lesotho and
to discovery of the law on any particular matter is highly problematic. The last statutory consolidation
and revision occurred in 1960, six years before independence. Indexes have been produced covering the
years 1960-89 but they are not widely available and need to be updated. Further, the Lesotho Law Report,
which contains decisions of the court of appeal and of the high court of Lesotho, stopped publication in
1981. Since then, judgments have simply been photocopied for informal release to interested parties.
Finally, buying statutory material is problematic in view of administrative complications and restricted
access imposed at the government prinishop. Access to customary law is even more complicated.
40.   Registry Office Operations. The registrar general's office is responsible for registering (a) all
records of family matters (birth, death, marriage, divorce, adoption, succession), (b) all documentation
pursuant to the Companies Act of 1967, (c) all documentation relevant to bankruptcy proceedings, (d)
deeds, leases, subleases, mortgages, and other security interests in real property under the Land Act of
1979 and the Deeds Registry Act of 1967, (e) collateral interests in personal property, and (f) all interests
in intellectual property. Plans are being discussed to decentralize the various registration functions to the
relevant ministries. As with access to laws, ready access to reliable information in the Registry Office
is important for private sector operators. Potential investors require information on the market they want
to enter and the strength of the competition, while creditors need information on the financial health of
companies seeking credit. Unfortunately, the Registry Office cannot meet that challenge. No company
files are indexed except by year of registration, which makes information virtually inaccessible.
41.   Information on land tenure is somewhat more accessible, at least for land that has been surveyed
(primarily in urban areas). Nevertheless, numerous administrative requirements cause unnecessary
delays-up to one year-in recording interests in land. For example, all transactions related to land have
to be endorsed not only on the original deed filed with the registrar general but also in identical fashion
on a duplicate copy kept by the land commissioner. In addition, under the Land Act, the minister of the
interior must approve each transfer of lease, sublease, and mortgage transaction on real estate in the
country.
42.   Finally, all files (such as they are) are stored in a single, small room that is not fire-proof and
throughout most working days is kept unlocked and unsupervised. No copies of any files are kept, and
nothing is computerized. Under the proposed project, a diagnostic study will be undertaken with a view
to strengthening the operations of the Registry. The objective must be to ensure easy access to securely
stored, reliable information.
43.   The Legal Profes-; .i and Education. The legal profession in Lesotho consists of approximately
thirty full-time practicing attorneys. The profession is self-regulated in pursuance of the 1983 Law Society
Act. Membership in the Law Society of Lesotho is mandatory for all lawyers wanting to practice in
Lesotho. The Society licenses attorneys and has its own code of conduct and disciplinary procedures.
Basotho attorneys tend to focus on family and criminal cases; there is limited experience in commercial
law. Legal training is available at the faculty of law of the National University of Lesotho. The faculty
has about 175 students; approximately 45 students (B.A. and LL.B.) graduated in 1993.



46
44.   The proposed strategy study will review all levels of legal and paralegal education offered in
Lesotho, with a view to assisting with the development, strengthening, and maintenance, on a sustainable
basis, of a body of legal professionals to support all aspects of the le&al framework for the private sector.
The strategy study will also examine the legal profession's organization and internal mechanisms for
control and discipline and explore the potential for privatizing legal services.
45.   Women and the Law. The legal position of women in Lesotho is unclear. Based in received law,
no legal hurdles seem to exist for women who are not married or have a prenuptial contract that excludes
the conmmunity of property and the husband's marital power. Restrictions do exist, however, for women
married in the community of property, by which the husband becomes the sole administrator of the (joint)
estate upon marriage. This has far-reaching implications for the ability of women to engage independently
in business activities. Without the husband's consent, a woman cannot enter into binding contracts for
the purchase or sale of goods and services, hold title to land, register a company, direct a company, or
pledge assets for raising capital. These restrictions, which have not been centrally codified in one law
governing the rights of women, appear in scattered laws such as the Deeds Registry Act of 1967 and the
Companies Act of 1967. Restrictions that are not codified probably originate in customary, or common,
law.
46.   Before attempting to strengthen the legal ability of women to engage in business, the status of
women in both customary and received law must be clarified. Such a clarification will be requested of
the attorney general before any actions are taken. An additional study of the subject may be needed, given
the complexity and probable tenacity of the restrictions themselves. At negotiations, however, the
government would provide its commitment to implement recommended and agreed legal changes which
would facilitate women's ability to start and grow a business.
Summary of Project Components
47.   The principal objectives of the proposed project are to assist the government in
v    Implementing its economy-wide privatization program
*    Inproving the policy and institutional environment for economic growth led by the private sector
with government providing social services and a positive enabling environment.
48.   The proposed project will be predominantly a technical assistance project to support the
government's privatization effort. Under the LADP, the government successfully implemented reforms that
have already substantially improved the environment for private investment. The proposed project
provides an opportunity to undertake additional in-depth studies on issues affecting the private sector. The
findings and recommendations of these studies will be reviewed on an ongoing basis and during the mid-
term review, and an action program will be designed to implement key reforms. The proposed project
would include the following elements:
Privatization
o    A five-year program of short-term assistance from a privatization specialist, a corporate finance
specialist, and a valuation specialist who will carry out specific tasks related to privatization,
including, among others, the development of procedural guidelines for various aspects of
privatization (such as valuation, advertising, criteria for evaluation/selection, and negotiations)



47
X    Short-term, specialized, transactions-oriented technical assistance and investment banker services
to assist the privatization committee in preparing for sale or for privatization by displacement of
an agreed list of companies or government services
*    Advisory assistance in developing and implementing a public awareness effort to include
development of printed and broadcast media, seminars, and other fora to educate the public about
the government's privatization and private sector development program
X    Establishment of the Privatization Unit through the financing of high caliber local consultants who
would serve as staff and the provision of office equipment (computer, fax machine)
Private Sector Development
*    Development of a long-term strategy and action plan for strengthening the legal framework for
the private sector, especially to ensure fair and rapid enforcement of contractual obligations
o    Studies to develop action plans in areas that must be reformed to support private sector
development: (a) taking steps to address issues related to Lesotho's labor market with a view to
implementing changes in setting wage rates, improving productivity, and improving strained labor
relations to encourage greater use of the country's excess labor, and (b) reviewing and revising
utility tariff rate structures to be consistent with the country's strategy of attracting investments
in labor-intensive, export-oriented industry
*    Efforts to strengthen key institutions that support the private sector: (a) the Ministry of Home
Affairs, Department of Land, Surveys, and Physical Planning to implement measures designed
to ensure a more efficient allocation of urban and industrial land, (b) the Investuet Promotion
Center to promote foreign investment, (c) the Business Advisory and Promotion Services to
support indigenous investors, (d) the Lesotho Chamber of Commerce to communicate more
effectively with the government in acting as the voice of the private sector during the privatization
effort, and (e) the Law Reform Commission.
Capital Market Development
o    Technical assistance to support (a) development of new capital market instruments (and related
regulatory capability), especially the development of indigenous savings groups into investor
groups, employee stock ownership plans, and so forth, (b) preparation of a prospectus for the
Lesotho Investment Holdings (LiM) unit trust, the Lesotho Bank unit tmst, or both, (c) valuation
of certain LNDc subsidiary companies to be sold through LiH or some other unit trust, and (d)
narketing of unit trust shares to the private sector
o    Development of a legislative, regulatory, administrative, and tax framework to support new
financial institutions and products (for example, unit trusts and employee stock ownership plans).
o    hmprovement of technical skills for (a) implementing privatization at the level of the privatization
committee, (b) commercializing some enterprises not being privadzed, (c) improving the



48
entrepreneurial and management capacity of local entrepreneurs to displace publicly provided
services that will be privatized, and (d) providing legal assistance as identified in the commercial
law reform strategy study.
Implementation Fund
o    US$3.3 million will be made available to finance investments identified by the legal reform
strategy study or other studies related to private sector development carried out under the project.
Disbursements from the fund will be conditional on agreement between IDA and an
Implementation Fund Committee on activities to be financed.
Section B: Project Management and Implementation
Project Management
49.   The principal secretary of the Ministry of Finance will ultimately be responsible for all aspects
of project implementation. However, the project is designed so that day-to-day implementation will be
the decentralized responsibility of the line ministry involved, with facilitation, as necessary, by the
Ministry of Finance. The principal secretary of the Ministry of Finance will be assisted by a full-time
project coordinator who shall, inter alia, be responsible for disbursement and procurement matters and
consultant related activities. The project coordinator shall liaise on these subjects with the implementing
agencies described below. A project ,ccountant would be appointed to be responsible for maintaining
project records and accounts and for ensuring the timely audit of said accounts. A newly established
Privatization Unit, which will report directly to the Minister of Finance will be responsible for the day-to-
day implemenitation of the privatization program. Staffing for the Unit, consisting of a chief and three
staff members with experience in law, corporate finance, or economics, will be appointed prior to project
negotiations. As part of their responsibility to provide leadership in implementing the privatization
program, the Privatization Unit will be responsible for submitting to IDA each year not later than the 1st
of February an annual privatization plan for the subsequent period of 12 months commencing April 1.
Each plan shall target at least 4 parastatals and shall include a detailed, tentative timetable with
monitorable activities for their privatization. The Ministry of Justice (attorney general's office) will be
responsible for overseeing the drafting of the privatization law, overseeing the legal framework study and
implementing resulting recommendations. The principal secretaries of the Ministry of Employment, and
the Ministry of Trade and Industry, in collaboration with the relevant utility and the director of the
Investment Promotior. Center, will be responsible for implementing actions to be agreed following the
studies on the labor market, and the utility rate structures. The principal secretary of the Ministry of
Finance will collaborate with the Central Bank on capital market development. The Privatization Unit will
be responsible for coordinating the entrepreneurship training program; and the chief of the Privatization
Unit will be responsible for ensuring the transfer of skills from its advisors to its staff. This on-the-job
training would be supplemented by external training as necessary. Regarding the management of funds
for implementing investments related to the studies on legal reform or private sector development, the
agency responsible for the study will become the implementing agency. As appropriate, principal
secretaries would be assisted by staff within their respective ministries to ensure timely project
implementation.
50.   An implementation fund committee headed by the principal secretary of the Ministry of Finance
and composed of the principal secretary of the Ministry of Planning, the Attorney General, the chairman
of the Privatization Unit and two representatives of the private sector designated by the principal secretary



49
of Finance and acceptable to IDA would decide on which activities would be financed by the
implementation fund. Decisions would be guided by priority needs identified in the various project
studies/action plans. Decisions by the committee would be specified in an implementation fund action
plan which would be agreed with IDA and updated as necessary.
51.   A Midterm Review would take place towards the end of the second project year to review the
findings and recommendations of project studies. The purpose of the midterm review would be to agree
on action plans related implementation arrangements and to review recommendations for use of the
implementation fund. Beneficiary assessment work financed under the Industrial and Agroindustries
Development Project will also evaluate the impact of the privatization program on the private sector and
on employees of the parastatal companies being sold. The results will be reviewed with project
management at the Mid-Term Review.
Procurement
52.   Consultants and consulting firms will be recruited internationally on the basis of competitive
selection. Their selection, qualifications, experience, and terms of employment will be subject to standard
iDA review procedures set out in World Bank guidelines. Civil Works to be carried out under the
Implementation Fund are expected to cost, in the aggregate, about US$3.3 million, including
contingencies, of which IDA will finance US$2.8 million. Works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$2.5 million may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA. US$0.3 million of office equipment and vehicles will be financed
to support the Privatization Unit, the Investment Promotion Center, the Business Advisory and Promotion
Service and the Lesotho Chamber of Commerce. These purchases will be made through the Inter-Agency
Procurement Service Office (IAPSO)2 of UNDP or on the basis of local shopping. The method of
procurement is shown in schedule B. All short lists, consultant and goods contracts in excess of $20,000
will be subject to prior review and approval by IDA. Price would be a criteria in evaluating consultant
proposals. Procurement activities subject to post review will be forwarded to IDA for all contracts, as set
out in the guidelines, prior to disbursement. Procurement experience under the Industrial and
Agroindustries Development Project was very good. This was due in large part to the fact that the
Government hired a procurement expert to manage all aspects of procurement through the evaluation
stage and to advise at contract negotiations. Each agency of Government involved in the project formed
a task force which worked closely with the procurement expert to ensure ownership of the work to be
performed by the selected consultant. A similar process will be followed under the subject project.
53.   Under the project, use of local consultants will be actively pursued in all feasible areas. Only
local consultants will be financed for IPC, BAPS and LCCI. Transfer of skills from international to local
consultants will be provided for. In the case of IPC and BAPS, the international advisor, hired under
the Industrial and Agroindustries Development Project, would be responsible for transfer of skills to the
local consultants to be hired by those organizations. The intermational advisor for developing the
2 IAPSO has responsibility for procurement support to agencies and international aid organizations for
which it has negotiated special prices. Because of its volume of purchases, IAPSO negotiated prices
are economical compared to the price obtained by direct solicitation from local agents by Bank
borrowers. It has been agreed that Bank borrowers are permitted to use IAPSO's services for the
procurement of items which would otherwise have been procured through prudent shopping.



s0
microenterprise lending scheme would be responsible for training and transferring skills to a qualified
local consultant who would operate the scheme. Joint-venture arrangements will be encouraged, especially
for the legal framework component for which local capability exists and where local knowledge and
experience is extremely valuable.
54.   The staff-months required and associated costs for consulting services are shown below:
Project Component            Numbers of Staff   Closi-fica0on of TA*
Months
TA to Privatization Unit                    120                  IS
Local Consultants for Privatization        240                   IS
Unit
TA to Market and Manage LIH_ 16                                  IS
TA to Support Public Awareness              40                   IS
Legal Framework Study        _              20                   PS
Review of Labor Market Issues               5                    PS
Review of Utility Rate Structures       _                        PS
Support to BAPS:                                                 IS
Local Consultant for Proj. Prep.          60
Local Consultant for Marketing            60
Microenterprise Lending Scheme
(Local and International Cons.)             30
Support to IPC:                                                  IS
Research Economist                        60
Marketing Executive                       60
Suport to Dept. of LSPP                     120                 IS
Support to LCCI (see Appendix for           24                   IS
Details)
TA to Develop Cap. Market Regs.             4                  PS&ID
TA to develop NBFI's                        4                  PS&ID
Ext. Training for Privatization Unit        10                   ID
Entrepreneurship Training              1,000 Trainees            ID
Legal Training                          100 Trainees             ID
* IDnstitutional Development (US$0.7 million); PS-Policy Support (US$0.7 million); IS=4mplemaron Support
(US$5.03 million).



51
Consultancies would be packaged to the extent possible. For example it is expected that one contract
would be let for a) capital market development work (i.e. TA to Market and Manage LIH, TA to
Development Capital Market Regulations, and TA to Develop NBFIs); b) privatization work (i.e. TA to
privatization Unit, and External Training for Privatization Unit); and c) legal work (i.e. Legal Framework
Study and Legal Training). Procurement of local consultants to support the Privatization Unit, IPC,
BAPS and LSPP would be managed by the heads of those agencies.
Disbursements
55.   Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation. The proceeds of the credit will
be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign expenditures for experts and consultants, training, equipment,
and supplies. Up to US$1 million of the credit will be available for disbursement against 100 percent of
local expenditures for the local costs of experts and for locally procured supplies and services. IDA
agrees to pay fees for local staff for the Privatization Unit. Fee rates would be comparable to those paid
in South Africa to ensure retention of high caliber staff. The Government would finance $1.4 million of
local expenditures including 15 percent of the costs related to the implementation fund (US$0.5 million),
the cost of redundant staff (US$0.3 million), and costs of local consultants not financed by IDA (US$0.6
million). To ensure the timely provision of funds for procuring services and goods under the project, the
Ministry of Finance will open a special account in a banking institution acceptable to IDA in the amount
of US$350,000. Funds in the special account will be available only for expenditures eligible under the
project. Expenditures for less than US$35,000 will be based on statements of expenditures. These
arrangements will be confirmed at negotiations. The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in
schedule C. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999. The closing date is set for
December 31, 2000.
Accounting, Auditing, and Repotting
56.   Auditing will be required on a yearly basis for expenditures related to the project with particular
attention to expenditures reimbursed against statements of expenditures. Audits will be performed by
qualified auditors acceptable to IDA and will be sent to IDA within nine montas of the end of each
financial year. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance will submit, within six months of the credit's closing
a final evaluation report on the implementation experience and project results. To ensure the timely
preparation of project accounts and audits, appointment of a project accountant is a condition of project
effectiveness. Project accounts will be prepared on a quarterly basis. These arrangements will be
confirmed at negotiations.
Agreements to be Reached
57.   The following agreements will be reached prior to negotiations, at negotiations, and by the time
the report will be submitted to the board.
58.   Conditions of Negotiations. The following condition was met before the start of negotiations:
agreement to support the creation of a Private Sector Advisory Group composed of serior-level
governmernt officials, the chief of the Privatization Unit, and key members of the private sector
(employers, employees, and members of the legal community) to facilitate communication on the
privatization program and private sector development issues.



52
59.   At Negotiations. The following agreements were reached during negotiations (a) agreement on
the draft privatization law; (b) agreement on the submission of annual privatization plans; (c) agreement
to allocate divestiture proceeds to investments supportive of the privatization process and private sector
development; (d) agreement on restraint and mutual consultation with iDA on the creation of new
parastatals (defined as majority government-owned or majority owned by government-owned entities);
(e) agreement to harden the budget constraint on parastatals by ceasing all operating subsidies as of April
1, 1997; (f) agreement at the mid-term review to implement key reforms identified by project studies;
(g) submission, within one year of project effectiveness, of an analysis and a time-bound action plan to
implement recommended changes in laws that negatively affect the ability of women to invest in and
expand a business; and agreement to implement the action plan; (h) agreement to establish an
implementation fund committee and to mutually agree with IDA on investments to be financed; (i)
agreement on an implementation plan for the carrying out of the private sector development studies; (j)
agreement to maintain a Law Reform Commission to manage the legal framework study and to implement
its recommendations.
60.   Conditions ofDisbursements. (a) For the implementation fund, agreement with IDA on investments
to be financed; (b) For support to the Department of Land, Surveys and Physical Planning, agreement
on an expenditure plan to strengthen the Department and on evidence of the transfer of a head lease to
the Ministry of Trade and Industry for eventual private development.
61.   Condition of Board Presentation. (a) A signed letter of privatization policy, declaring the
govermnent's objectives in this area; (b) The package of letters of invitation for the first year of technical
assistance will be issued.
62.   Conditions of Effectiveness. (a) Enactment of a Privatization Law satisfactory to IDA; (b)
appointment of a chief of the Privatization Unit (a person of at least Principal Secretary rank and stature)
agreeable to IDA; and appointment of staff (agreeable to IDA, with backgrounds in economics, finance,
and law) for the Privatization Unit; (c) Appointment of a project accountant acceptable to IDA.
Section C: Tenns of Reference for Consultancy Assignents and SuperWision Plan
63.    Draft terms of reference are included in appendixes D through F, grouped by type of technical
assistance. These include the following:
64.   Appendix D: Privatizaion: terms of reference for the Privatization Unit, for technical assistance
to support the Privatization Unit, and for advisory assistance to implement the public awareness effort.
Terms of reference for specialized technical assistance to prepare specific companies for privatization have
not been included because they will be drafted on an as-needed basis by the Privatization Unit.
65.   Appendix E: Private Sector Development: terms of reference for the long-term strategy for the
legal sector, for a study to review and revise utility tariff rate structures, and for a study and action plan
to address key labor market issues. Terms of reference for programs to strengthen the Investment
Promotion Center for support of privatization and private sector development is included, as well as the
rationale and budget for strengthening the Lesotho Chamber of Commerce.
66.   Appendix F: Capital Market Development Component: terms of reference for technical assistance
to privatize LUH and for the development of a framework of regulations for new financial institutions.
67.   Appendix G: Terms of Reference for Business Development/Entrepreneurship Training
68.   Project Supervision Plan



53
APPENDIX A. STATEMENT OF PRIVATIZATION POLICIES



54
In reply please quote:                             Cabic addre: PLANNOFF
Your Referenc-e:                                   Telephone: 311100 Maseru
CENTRAL PLANNING AND
DEVELOPh!ENT OFFICE
P.O. BOX MS 630
MASERU 100
LESOTHO
CPO/4/014                                          15 April,1994.
Mr V K E Jaycox
Vice President
Africa Region
World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Dear Sir,
POLICY STAThXENT ON PRIVATISATION AND  VAT! SECTOR DELOPMZNT
The following paragraphs set out a policy statement with regard
to privatisation of public enterprises and development of the
private sector which has been adopted by the Government of
Lesotho (GOL):
OBJECTIVES:
Since becoming independent, public enterprises have played an
important role in promoting LesothoIs economic development.
However, a reexamination of the role of parastatals is now urgent
for five main reasons:
-  some public enterprises are incurring regular losses and
are a substantial burden on GOL's budget;
- more efficient ways exist to produce goods and services
without any need for GOL to subsidise, directly or
indirectly, commercial activities;
-  Large investments, especially in larger public enterprises,
are becoming impossible for GOL to finance:
- by selling off good public enterprises, GOL will be able to
generate substantial funds to invest in new development
activity; and
-  Lesotho's capital market urgently needs development to
provide a better variety of outlets for savings and to
enable enterprises to raise low-cost funds for business
projects. Capital market development will help to mobilise
new savings and sale of public enterprises will enhance
entrepreneurship skills and improve investment capability.



55
/2/
For these reasons GOL has developed this comprehensive policy
which is designed over time to increase savings, promote the
widest possible public participation and a more efficient
delivery of goods and services. An indicative list of actions
envisaged for the first year of a Privatisation Programme is
shown at Annexure 1 hereto.
The priority targets in the programme will be loss-making public
enterprises. However, private sector participation in the more
profitable and promising businesses will also be aggressively
pursued. In this context attention will be given to private
sector provision of certain goods and services currently provided
by government itself, i.e. by Ministries, Departments or Trading
Accounts within Ministries or Departments.
The  privatisation  programme  does  not  imply  the  total
disengagement of GOL from parastatal enterprises. For example,
Lesotho Highlands Development Authority and Central bank of
Lesotho will not be suitable candidates for privatisation. With
enterprises such as Lesotho Bank and Lesotho Telecommunications
Corporation, GOL will have to remain the majority owner for many
years to come. However, private sector involvement in such
enterprises can be accommodated by divesting some part of
existing equity or by increasing the equity base which would
allow the private sector to take the place of GOL in financing
expansion  and  promoting  technical  advancement  in  these
enterprises.
ENABLING LEGISLATION:
Implementing a privatisation programme will require a review of
all relevant legislation. A new Privatisation Act is envisaged
together with amendment of laws relating to various parastatals.
The Privatisation legislation will deal with issues such as the
role and powers of key participants, safeguards to ensure
transparency and accountability, use of privatisation proceeds
and institutional arrangements like creation of a Privatisation
Implementation/Monitoring Unit.
MANAGEMENT OF A PRIVATISATION PROGRAMME:
Management of a Privatisation programme will involve: (1)
mobilising public interest and support and promoting the maximum
possible local participation, (2) attracting the right type of
local and foreign investors, (3) negotiating sound deals and (4)
timely decision-making and action. This will require creation of
a Privatisation Unit with powers and responsibilities defined in
legislation and staffed by people with leadership qualities and
an appropriate range of professional skills and experience.
Because the success of the Programme will depend greatly on a
strong commitment by Government, the Privatisation Unit will
report directly to the Minister of Finance. The Unit will have
autonomy sufficient to ensure its effective operation. It will



56
/3/
develop and submit to government for approval a set of operating
policies and procedures, dealing with issues such as asset title,
enterprise evaluation, debt settlement and ownership.
The success of the privatisation programme will ultimately depend
on the support and active participation of the public. This will
require an information and education campaign to make the public
aware of the potential benefits. The potential benefits include
a major positive impact on the GOL Budget, more efficient
services,   increased  employment  opportunities  and  better
accountability. Over the next five years of the Privatisation
programme, the government will publish an annual report which
will discuss progress to-date, the issues which have arisen and
how they have been dealt with, the budgetary effects, how
privatisation proceeds have been used and planned activities for
the year ahead.
CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT:
Privatisation progress will be largely determined by the rate of
progress with attracting private investment. The programme will
therefore give urgent attention to developing the capital market.
The banks are expected to play a key role in this exercise but
so also will non-bank financial institutions. New procedures and
new investment instruments will be necessary to involve both
passive and active private investors. Public share offerings are
considered among the best possible means of giving all citizens
the opportunity to own shares in major enterprises.
The capital market must therefore be developed to enable public
share offerings as quickly as possible. Creation of investment
companies and Unit Trusts will also facilitate passive investors.
In this context attention will be given to the issue of foreign
ownership. For strategic-type enterprises or those which enjoy
a monopoly position, Government will ensure that there is a
majority of non-foreign ownership and/or that there are
safeguards sufficient to protect the public interest. Account
will be takein of the need to facilitate inflows of foreign
capital and new technology to assist economic development.
Divestiture of government's interest in enterprises will be made
through transparent procedures. In each case, the Privatisation
Unit will ensure full information for the public about what is
on offer, the selection criteria to be applied, the names of
bidders, the nature of the bids, the evaluation results and
details of the deal finally struck.
Yours sincerely,
E.M. MPTEKANE
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY FOR PLANNING, ECONOMIC
AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND ALTERNATE GOVERNOR FOR LESOTHO



57
INDICATIVI ACTIOMS FOR YEAR . OF THE PRIVATISATION PROGRAOU
1.  ESTABLISHING THE PRIVATISATION UNIT:
Enact Privatisation Legislation, Establish Parastatal Unit,
appoint key staff of the Unit. The Unit must then develop
its strategy and a detailed programme, prepare a public
awareness campaign, prepare guidelines on issues like share
ownership, retrenchment, valuation of assets and shares,
transparency, etc.
2. CAPITAL MARXET DEVELOPMENT:
Introduce legislation and policies for non-bank financial
institutions (NBFI's); develop capacity for monitoring and
supervising NBFI's; strengthen existing and facilitate
creation of new NBFI's, e.g. investment companies, a
venture    capital    company    and    a    financial
adviser/underwriter.
3. INDIVIDUAL PARASTATAL ACTIONS:
PARASTATAL:              ACTION PROPOSED:
BEDCO                    Rationalise,   sell   off  activities
suitable for private ownership and
operation.
Co-op Lesotho            Sell  off as many  rural  stores  as
possible.
LADB                     Restructure and restore to profitable
operation.
Lesotho Airways          Establish  a  joint venture with  an
outside airline and sell off existing
fleet.
LBFC                     Finalise merger with Lesotho Bank
Lesotho Pharmaceutical   Transfer GOL's LPC equity to LNDC; LNDC
then
Corporation              to make LPC a joint venture with a
suitable partner.
NDSO                     Sell   off   commercial   activities,
transfer regulatory function to MOH.



58
Abattoir/Feedlot              Convert from Trading A/c into a
separate    legal    (parastatal)
entity, restructure to make the
operation  profitable,   seek  a
technical partner preferably to
operate as a joint venture.
Lesotho Flour Mills           Convert from Trading A/c status
into   a   separate   parastatal
entity.
GOL Cleaning/Messenger
services                      Contract this work out to the
private sector.
Army/Police Bus service       Terminate service, leave for the
private sector to do and sell off
fleet by public tender.
LTC                           Deregulate/Privatise  supply and
maintenance    of    all    user
appliances.
LEC                           Sell  LEC  retail  outlet/s  by
competitive tender.
Lesotho Sun (Pty)             Transfer GOL equity in Lesotho
Sun to LIH.
Lesotho Freight/Bus
service                       Liquidate  and  sell  assets  by
public tender.
LNDC Companies:
Les Investment Hldgs          Reactivate,   restructure   share
capital   and  transfer   LNDC's
equity in various LNDC companies
and  GOL  equity   in  various
parastatals into new LIH.
Wanda                         Sell LNDC equity to the other
shareholder.
OK Bazaars                    Transfer LNDC equity to LIH.
Security Lesotho              Transfer LNDC equity to LIH.
Smart Centre                  Transfer LNDC equity to LIH.
Les Food Industries           Transfer LNDC equity to LIH.
Cashbuild                     Transfer LNDC equity to LIH.



59
Clifford Trading               Sell off by competitive tender.
Pal Products                   Liquidate/Sell off.
Parthenon Paints               Sell out to existing shareholder.
Pioneer Motors                 Sell by competitive tender.
Maseru Sun Cabanas             Transfer GOL/LNDC equity to LIH.
Lesotho Brewery                Transfer  25%  of existing  LNDC
owned equity into LIE{.
Lesotho Bank Com2anies:
National Motors                Place under administration  and
sell.
Xaluti Int Travel              Liquidate/place    under
administration and sell.



60
APPENDIX B. TIMETABLE FOR THE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
Year 1
Institutional capacity: establish the Privatization Unit and appoint privatization advisors
Policy definition: prepare and issue terms of reference for the Privatization Unit; update as necessary the
strategy and program for privatization; prepare guidelines on share ownership, valuation, redundancy,
and transparency; and identify and resolve ownership and title issues
Public Awareness: prepare and implement the public awareness program
Capital market development: review and introduce legislation and policies governing nonbank financial
institutions and provide technical assistance to government officials in the approval and supervision of
nonbank financial institutions, to the Lesotho National Development Corporation in the valuation of
certain of its assets that can be privatized, and to the Lesotho Bank in the establishment of its unit trust
Deregulation of government procurement tendering procedures: permit private sector competition for all
aspects of government services, but especially for printing and for servicing and maintaining vehicles
Lesotho Bank: first public share offering (MS million)
Lesotho Airways Corporation: finalize sales agreement
Lesotho Building Finance Company: finalize the merger with Lesotho Bank
Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation: continue with rationalization
Lesotho Pharmaceutical: secure technical partner and rationalize
National Drug Services Organization: divest commercial activities and transfer regulatory functions to
the Ministry of Health
Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank: renew the conmmitment to restructuring
Abattoir and Feedlot: corporatize and commercialize
Maluti International Travel: liquidate
Wanda Frasers Furnishers: sell to existing shareholder
OK Bazaars: transfer LNDC shareholding to LiH
Security Lesotho: transfer LNDC shareholding to LIH
Smart Center: transfer LNDC shareholding to uH
Lesotho Food Industries: transfer LNDC shareholding to LUH
Lesotho Sun, Ltd.: transfer government shareholding to LuH



61
Sun International Lesotho: transfer LNDC shareholding to uH
Cashbuild: transfer LNDC shareholding to LIH
Lesotho Brewing: transfer 25 percent of shareholding to LIH
LuH: undertake capital restructuring to reflect the transfer of LNDC holdings
Lesotho Flour Mills: negotiate and complete partial sale (25 to 40 percent)
Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation: deregulate the supply of all types of user appliances
Clifford Trading: sell by competitive tender
Cleaning services for government departments: contract out selected services and provide civil servants
with the appropriate support to establish them in business
Bus passenger services (provided by the army and police): divest through displacement and sell off
vehicles by competitive tender
Pal Products (Party), Ltd.: complete voluntary liquidation
Parthenon Paints Lesotho: trade sale to existing shareholder
Lesotho Electricity Corporation: sell retailing outlet by competitive tender
Year 2
Lesotho Sandstone Company: review in 1994
Basotho Farm Produce: finalize a merger with Lesotho Fruit and Vegetable Canners
Ministries of works and interior and Lesotho Housing and Land Development Corporation: contract out
building maintenance services
Lesotho Housing and Land Development Corporation: rationalize
Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation: restructure, including the revision of tariffs, financial
restructuring, deregulation of communication bureau services, and introduction of a new technical partner
Lesotho National Insurance Company: conduct private placement of shares, including 10 percent each
for employees and for Lm
Minet Kingsway: sell by competitive tender (possibly with employee participation)
Lesotho Flour Mills: first public share offering (say, M10 million)
Basotho Fruit and Vegetable Canners: sell joint-venture partner, negotiate and conclude final deal



62
Ministry of Works (plant and vehicle pool services): contract out some vehicle maintenance services by
competitive tender
Ministry of Works (roads branch): contract out road construction and maintenance following training and
other support to private businesses
Year 3
VI: first public share offering (say, M5 million)
Lesotho Flour Mills: second public share offering (say, M10 million)
National Abauoir and Feedlot Complex: privatize
Year 4
Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation: first public share offering (say, 10 million)
La: second public share offering (say, M5 million)
Year 5
Lesotho Bank: second public share offering (say, M5 million)
Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation: second public share offering (say, M10 million)
Loti Brick: sell by competitive tender (subject to review)
Year 6 and Onward (Second Phase)
Lesotho Flour Mills: third public share offering (say, M1O million)
Ministry of Interior, Maseru City Council: contract out solid waste management following training and
appropriate support to employees



63
APPENDIX C. FISCAL IMPACT OF THE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM



GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                                                                                      15:16
04-Nov-92
ESTIMATED FISCAL IMPACT ON TREASURY DURING THE FIRST FIVE YEARS
THE BENCHMARK CASE: NO PRNVA1SATION PROGRAMME                               (ALT P)
_                           IFISCAL2.WK3]
I  .                 Year              __ _
1        2         3        4         5         Total
.                           M 'OOOs  M 'OOOs  M 'ooos  M 'OOOs  M 'OOOs    M 'OOOs
Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation              0        0         0         0         0            0
Co-op Lasotho Umiled                                     0        0         0         0         0            0
Goverrnment Public Services                              0      j          fi60    A c                    (
_ Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank               (6,000,   (3,000    (39000    (3,00     0          (18,00
Lesoliho Airways Corporation - Joint Venture        (5.500    (5,500    (,500    (5500    (5.500       (27500
Lesotho Bank (with LBFC)                             (9       (1000    (1,000    (1.000    (1000       (13,000
Lesotho Electricity Corporation                          0        0         0         0         0            0
Lesotho Flour Mills                                 15,000    15,000    15,000    15,000    15,000      75,000
Lesotho Freight & Bus Service Corporation                0         0        0         0         0            0                   O
Lesotho Housing & Land Development Corp              (1,000    (1,000    (1,000    (1,000    (1,000     (5.000
Lesotho National Development Corporation                 0         0        0         0         0            0
Lesotho National Insurance Co Ltd                      540       540      540       540       540        2,700
Lesotho Pharmaceutical Corporation                   (1.50q    (1,500    (1,500    (1,500    (1,500     P7O5
Lesotho Sun Umited                                      50       50        50        50        50          250
Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation                   0   (10,000   (10,000   (10,000   (10.000     (40,0
Lesotho Water & Sewerage Authority                                0         0         0         0            0
Lesotho Investment Holdings                              00                 0         0         0            0
National Abattoir & Feedlot Complex                  (        (2,200    (2,200    (2    ,200,          (il,;110
National Dnrg Services Orgnasation                       0        0         0         0         0 I          0
Sun Intemational Lesotho (Pty) Ltd                      50       50        50        50        50          250
Total                          9,560    (8.620     ,620                ,62044040



GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                                                                                      15:16
04-Nov-92
ESTIMATOD FISCAL IMPACT ON FIEASURY DURING THE FIRST FIVE YEARS
IMPLEMENTING THE PRIVAlISAllON PROGRAMME*                               {ALT P)
________________________________________________                         J~~FISCALL2.W131
_______   _______    Y ear   _
1        2        3         4         5        Total
M '00sB  M '000s  M 'O*Os  M '000s  M '000s    M 'o0os
Basotho Enterprises Devebpmrent Corporaion              0         0        0         0        0            0
Co-op Lesotho Umited                                  250       250      500       500       500        2,000
Government Public Services                            600         0        0         0        0          600
Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank               (6.000    2                      0        0          ,900O
Lesotho AiJways Corporation - Joint Venture          7(1,OO            (1,000    (0        (1,00      (11000
Lesotho Bank (with LBFC)                            (9,000    (         2,000    3,000     3,000       (2,00
Lesotho Electricity Corporation                         0         0        0         0       .0            0
Lesotho Flour Mills                                 23,500    485      17,500    25,500    15.000     130,000
Lesotho Freight & Bus Service Corporatin             2,400    2,100        0         0        0         4,500
Lesotho Housing & Land DevelopmenteCorp             (1,000    (1,000     pOO       00 O30,000
Lesotho National Developmernt Corporaton                0         0        0         0        0            0
Lesotho National Insurance Co Ltd                    2,540       90       90        90       90         2,900
Lesotho Pharmaceutcal Corporation                   (1,500        0        0         0        0         (1500
Lesotho Sun Umited                                   1,000        0        0         0        0         1,000
Lesotho Telecommkications Corporaon                     0   (10,000        0         0        0        (10,000
Lesotho Water & Sewerage Authorily                      0         0        0         0        0            0
Lesotho Investment Holdings                             O         0     4,500    4,500        0         9,000
National Abattor & Feedlot Complex                   2,MU,   (2,000    (2         2         .000      (10,200
National Dg Services OrgnTsatTon                        0         0        0         0        0            0
Sun International Lesoho (Pty) Ltd                   1,000        0        0         0         0        1,000
Total                          4        33 -0 19,890           _- 15,590         104,300
*  TN. bnores LEC and LW&SA whch, at the prosnt time, are not Included n the firstfheyear of the p,tkaha1on proguamme. If theirInclusion I. brought forvnud
then tgrim would to be Induded In the benchmatk case.



30VRNMENr OF LESOlHO                                                                                                              5:16
04-Nov-92
ESTIMATED NET FISCAL IMPACT ON TREASURY OF THE PROPOSED DIVESTITURE PROGRAMME*
{AL..T 1')
IFISQAL2.WK31
Year
1            2            3             4             5           Total
M '000s      M 0000s       M '000s      M '000s       M '000s      M '000s
Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation                    0             0            0             0            0             0
Co-op Lesotho Umited                                         250           250          500           500          500         2,00
Government Public Services                                   600            60           60            60           60           840
Lesotho Agrlcultural Development Bank                          0         1,000        2,000         3,000         3,000        9.0w
Lesotho Airways Cotporadon -Joint Venture                  (1,500        4,500        4,500         4,500         4.500       16,500
Lesotho Bank (with LBFC)                                       0             0         3,000        4,000         4,000       11.000
Lesogho Electricily Cogporation                                0             0            0             0            0             0
Lesotho Flour Mills                                        8,500        33,500         2,500        10,500           0        55,000
Lesotho Freight & Bus Service Corporation                  2,400         2,100            0             0            0         4,500      c
Lesotho Housing & Land Development Corp                        0             0          300           700         1,000        2,000
Lesotho National Development Corporaton                        0             0            0             0             0            0
Lesotho National Insurance Co Ltd                          2,000          (450         (450          t450          (45a          20C
Lesotho Pharmaceutical Corporation                             0         1,500         1,500         1,500        1,500        6,000
Lesotho Sun Umited                                           950           (5           J;0            (                         750
Lesotho Telecommunicalions Corporation                         0             0        10,000        10,000       10,000       30,000
Lesotho Water & Sewerage Authority                             0             0            0             0             0            0
Lesotho Investment Holdings                                    0             0         4,500        4,500             0        9,000
National Abattor & Feedlot Complex                             0           200          200           200           200          800
National Drug Services Organisation                            0    .0                    0             0 0                       0
Sun International Lesotho (Pty) Ltd                          950(                 (50                  (50          (50           750
Totals                              14,150i      42,560        28,510       38,910        24,210       148,340
* Thi esimated fiscal impact on Treasury relates to the fint fWe years of the programme oniy. These calcualons ignore the marginal effect of the divestiture
programme on orporate tax receipts. They also Ignore the marginal effect of the programme on income tax recelpts. Multiplier effects are not considered
either. Al figures are in constant 1892 prices. It Is important to note thlt values are based on recont earnings (net of taxq and not on assets values. These figures also exclude the costs of



GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                                                                                                        15:16
04-Nov-U2
BREAKDOWN OF THE ESTIMATED NET FISCAL IMPACT ON TREASURY OF THE PROPOSED DIVESTITURE PROGRAMME'
_FISCAiL2WK31
Year     _
1           2            3            4            5          Total
M *000s     M'000s     M '000s      M '000s      M '000s      M *000s
Flows to Treasury                                                                                                 .
Sabs/ Uguidation Proceeds                               22,250       22.350           0            0            0       44,601
Share Offer Proceeds                                        0        10,000           0        10,000           0       20O00
Dividends                                               (5.640      (10,550       (4,050       (6,050      (tO,550      (36.84
Corporation Tax                                         14,040       1,3,500      13,500       13,500       13,000      67,540
Other                                                       0           60          500 -        500          500         1,560
30,650      35,360         9,950       17,950        2.950      96.860
Flows from Treasury
Redundancy Costs                                        (1,000           0            0            0            (        (1.000
Capital Contributions                                       0            0        10,000       11,0WO       11,000       32I000
Uabilities                                               6,000        7,200        8,500        9.900       10,200      41.800
Operating Losses                                       (21,500           0            0            01           0       (21.5W
Other                                                       0            0           60           60           60          160
h _,_(._                                              {16.500       7.200        18.560      20.96C(      21.26t       51.480
Totals                                             I      14.150       42.5601      28.5101      38.9101      24.210      148340



GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                                                                                14:26
04-Nov-92
CUMULATIVE BREAKDOWN OF THE ESTIMATED NET FISCAL IMPACT ON TREASURY
IFISCA12.WK31
Year
1       ~~~2          3            4            5
M 'OOOs     M 'OOOs      M 'OOOs      M 'OOQs      M 'OOOs
Flows to Treasury
Sales/ Uguidation Proceeds                   22,250       44,600      44,600       44.600       44,600
Share Offer Proceeds                             0        10,000       10,000       20,000      20,000
Dividends                                    (5,640)     (16,1 gO     (20,240      (26029       (36,840
Corporation Tax                              14,040       27,540       41,040       54.540      67,540
Other                                            0           60          560         1,060       1560
___________  _-   30,650  66,010      75,960       93.910       96,860
Flows from Treasury                                                                                      I
Redundancy Costs                             (1,          (1,000       (1,000           o        (1.000 |a
Capital Contributions                            0            0        10,000       21,000      32,000            co
Liabilities                                   6,000       13,200       21,700      31,600       41,800
Operating Losses                            (21,500      (21,o        (21,500      (21,500      (21,500
Other                                            0            0           60          120          180
_  (16,500       (9,300        9,260       30,220       51.480
Totals                                         14,150       56,7 10      85,220      124,130      148,34 0



69
APPENDIX D. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PRIVATIZATION
Terms of Reference for the Privatton Unit
The government of Lesotho will establish a Public Enterprise and Services Privatization Unit (to be
called the Privatization Unit) to supervise and coordinate the program for privatizing selected public
enterprises and services.
Objectves
The objectives of the program are to
e    Increase productive efficiency and growth of the economy
*    Eliminate general budgetary support to the productive sector
*    Reduce the administrative burden on government and release government funds for essential
expenditures (including investments in infrastructure, health, and education)
*    Broaden direct participation of the population in the control and ownership of productive assets,
thus improving their use; this will be achieved by injecting capital, technology, and managerial
skills through private participation and by enhancing management and supervisory structures in
the case of retained enterprises.
The program will be complemented by wide-ranging legal and regulatory changes and measures to
improve the business environment.
Role
The role of the Privatization Unit will be to act as the central oversight body for the planning and
implementation of the privatization program.
Reporig
The head of the Privatization Unit will report directly to the government secretary or the minister of
finance (which will be decided during the negotiations) and the Privatization Unit will come directly under
the cabinet. Decisions not within the scope of authority of the Privatization Unit will be made by the
cabinet or its delegated committee.
Responsibilities
For the divestment of public enterprises and services, the Privatization Unit will be govemed by the
Privatization Law, which lays out processes of evaluation, advertising, and authority for approval relevant
to conducting the program. This law aims to ensure that the process is clear to other members of
government and the general public. In addition, it will also accomplish the following:



70
*    Review divestiture policy and strategies, including prioritization, sequencing, and implementation
initially developed during the preparation period
*    Formulate and administer operating policies and procedures and detailed work programs
*    Carry out studies of enterprises and public services, as required, in order to (a) estimate their
market value, (b) estimate investment requirements, and (c) examine and evaluate ownership and
investment options
*    Recommend divestiture mechanisms determined by the cabinet
*    Provide expert advice to the cabinet on the direction of the program and process reports relating
to the program's status, issues, and next steps
o    Recommend to the cabinet specific transactions, including sales, joint ventures, share offers, and
other mechanisms of privatization
*    Approve agreements and issue advisory statements and instructions relating to privatization
matters, subject to the specific delegation of the cabinet
*    Ensure close consultation and coordination with all relevant government ministries and agencies
throughout implementation of the program
*    Carry out policy studies on issues related to improving the business environment (such as
taxation, pricing, capital mobilization, and investment labor and land, and the associated enabling
legislation) and recommend policy changes to facilitate the privatization program
*    Develop and maintain working relationships with the Central Bank, commercial banks, and local
and international private agencies in the technology, investment, and financial sectors
*    Prepare reports on the progress and impact of the privatization program.
Expected Staffing
For the first two years of the program the staff of the Privatization Unit is expected to comprise
*    The director (who should be a person with (a) a public service background in Lesotho, (b)
recognizable leadership qualities, (c) keen negotiating skills, (d) a good public relations manner,
and (e) a great deal of respect in the business community
*    Three highly experienced professional staff (one economist one accountant, and one valuation
specialist, at least one of whom should have a private sector background).
These full-time personnel will be supported by local and international consultants as required. During
the first six months these will include two full-time international consultants: one privatization specialist,
and one corporate finance specialist. Other specialists will be engaged as required and according to the
terms of reference that follow. They will review an enterprise's deal making, negotiations, valuations,
preparation of prospectuses, public relations, and so forth.



71
Remuneration and Financing
The staff of the Privatization Unit will be offered remuneration packages commensurate with their
responsibilities and with comparable private sector professional personnel.
The Privatization Unit and its local expenditure will be financed by a specific budgetary allocation,
which will, in turn, be supported by divestiture proceeds. The cost of international consultants and other
foreign expenditures will be financed through funds made available under the iDA credit.
The proceeds from divestiture will be paid directly into a special treasury privatization account to be
opened and maintained at the Central Bank. Proceeds from share issues, which represent increases in
equity capital and not the sale of government shares, will be retained by the enterprises concerned.
Terms of Reference for Advisors to the Privatization Unit
The Privatization Unit will be advised by a privatization expert (advisory team leader), a corporate
finance expert, and an accounting and valuation specialist, who will on an as-needed basis prepare
companies for privatization. The chief of the Privatization Unit will determine the timing of in-country
visits and consultancy assignments. The consultants will also discuss specific issues long-distance.
In addition, the chief, at his discretion, will hire the services of specialized investment bankers or
technical advisors to help with the preparation and sale of large, highly specialized companies, such as
an airline or banking institution.
The proposed assistance will be carried out during periods of about one month approximately three or
four times a year, depending on the need. Proposals will be evaluated on the basis of (a) the experience
of advisors, (b) the anticipation in the proposal of the specific types of assignments that will be carried
out to help set up the Privatization Unit and prepare for sale the companies slated for years one through
five of the privatization program.
Privatization Expert
The advisor to the Privatization Unit will be responsible for advising the chief on planning, guiding,
and implementing the privatization program. He will work closely with, and report directly to, the head
of the Privatization Unit. The privatization advisor will have the following role and main responsibilities:
o    Developing a set of guidelines to be followed for privatization
*    Finalizing the divestiture sequencing plan outlined in the program (including selection of
companies to be privatized, sequencing, identification of tasks to be undertaken prior to
divestiture)
o    Finalizing the methodology and procedures to be followed (including guidelines on tender
packages and prospectus documentation, tender evaluation rules, bid management procedures,
sales agreement documentation, and negotiations)
o    Organizing for diagnosis each particular enterprise for privatization



72
*    Overseeing the preparation for sale of particular companies
*    Overseeing and providing advisory assistance for negotiations and final agreements
*    Reporting on the overall progress of the program, including budgets, costs, and revenues.
The privatization advisor should have wide experience in privatization programs in developing countries,
preferably in Africa, with a substantial postgraduate background in accounting, economics, or finance.
Corporate Finance/Merchant Banking Specialist
The corporate finance/merchant banking specialist will report directly to the head of the Privatization
Unit. He will be responsible for drawing up and supervising the implementation of plans for the financial
restructuring of companies to be privatized and for reviewing the recommended method of sale.
Specifically, these tasks will include the following:
*    Compiling and analyzing financial, operational, and related information (including the
identification of outstanding liabilities, contingent liabilities, assets, and any encumbrances). On
this basis, recommendations will be made as to provisions and asset write downs, privatization
potential, and modalities
*    Preparing organizations for privatization (including recommending balance sheet restructuring,
debt restructuring or write downs, liquidation of specific operations, and efforts to deal with
redundancy and pension liability issues)
-    Recommending modalities of sale with the objective of securing the best price (including
reviewing the possibility of breaking up a company prior to sale, private sale, and public
flotation) and assisting in implementation of the sale.
Acconmting and Valuation Specialist
The accounting and valuation specialist wilH report directly to the head of the Privatization Unit. He will
be responsible for training staff and have overall responsibility for all matters pertaining to the valuation
of parastatals to be sold, preparation of prospectus, and the valuation of bids received. This includes the
valuation of companies that will be offered through the LH unit trust and the valuation of LUH as an
investment product. The main objective will be to help government secure the best price for each
company sold while ensuring satisfactory implementation of the privatization program. The specific tasks
of the specialist for valuadons of assets and companies will include the following:
o    Recommending methodology (company specific)
*    Identifying issues that will affect valuations and recommending accepted methodologies; this will
include, among others, (a) requirements for commitments by the private employer to maintain
employee levels, (b) factors specific to assets, such as age and condition of the technology, (c)
liabilities, (d) operating and legal agreements, and (e) investor needs



73
*    Determining how to set prices, including (a) the methodology for pricing public issues, (b)
minimum-bid price for private sales, (c) assessment of the extent of discount for management
buyouts and employee participation schemes, and (d) assessment of potential investor interest
*    Overseeing the preparation of a privatization regulation and information/prospectus for investors
o    Processing the sale, including prequalification, tender issue, investor profile, evaluation of bids,
negotiation, and conclusion of sale for private sales and prospectus, price setting, allocation,
underwriters, and transfer of shares for public flotation
*    Advising and participating, as requested by the Privatization Unit chief, in final negotiations and
conclusion of sales.
The specialist is expected to h2ve postgraduate training in finance or a related field, significant
experience in valuation of companies, and prior exposure to privatization programs. Knowledge of Africa
is a plus.
Terms of Reference for Advisory Assistance to Implaement
Public Awareness Effort
Objectives
The consultant will design and implement a comprehensive public awareness and education campaign
to achieve two broad goals:
*    Introduce in clear and simple terms the government's privatization program, its underlying
rationale, the process and procedures by which privatization may occur, the benefits for the
average citizen, the specific steps (such as retraining workers) that may be taken to mitigate any
adverse impact of the program, and the ways in which each citizen can get involved
-    Advertise and market the availability of companies or investment vehicles as appropriate and at
strategic points during the privatization program.
Program Design
The consultant will prepare an information campaign that covers the objectives of the program, namely,
the nature of the privatization program, the related capital market and financial sector initiatives, and
human capacity development for the private sector.
This information campaign will be comprised of several modules, including the foliowing:
*    A series of seminars and workshops aimed at specific sections of the community, including senior
and middle-level government officials, the management of both parastatal and private sector
onterprises, potential individual and institutional investors, the professional legal, baning, and
accounting communities, labor (miners, farmers), and the general public. The consultant will
organize several of these workshops before the privaizadon effort formally begins in order to (a)
convey to the public the government's priorities and rationale regarding the privathzaton program
and (b) ensure the ongoing participation of a representatve segment of the commnity in



74
designing the program, thus ensuring its broad acceptance and appeal. This commnity
participation may take a number of forms, including formal workshops, working groups, and
traditional meetings (pitsos).
*    General print information (brochures, pamphlets) on each program topic for wide distribution and
circulation
*    A radio and television campaign.
Program    plemeltation
The consultant will work closely with the Privatization Unit, committees, and relevant government
agencies, (such as the Central Bank and the ministries of fiace, trade and industry, agriculture, and
informadon) to develop the information campaign and devise effective methods of reaching a broad cross-
section of the public. The consultant will meet with the local financial sector to sewre its early
involvement and cooperation in disseminating public information and providing financial services.
The consultant will implement the program in a flexible and responsive manner to ensure that a clear,
consistent, and comprehensive message is delivered to the target audience. The consultant will work on
ajoint-venture basis with a capable local consultant and counterparts in the relevant governent ministies
to develop the capacity of local human resources.
Program Evaluation
The consultant will design and conduct periodic surveys to ascertain the accuracy and effectiveness of
the public information and education campaign.



75
APPENDIX E. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Terms of Reference for the Long-Term Strateg
for the Legal Sector
Background
The government of Lesotho seeks to rely increasingly on market forces for guiding economic decisions
regarding the allocation of resources and the production and distribution of goods and services. The
government is keenly aware that relying on the private sector as a primary engine of growth necessitates
revising the legal and institutional framework of that sector. A market economy, relying heavily on the
private sector, cannot develop without extensive underpinning and support of the law. A body of law
establishing the rules of the game on issues fundamental to the conduct of business-including contracts,
trade, company structure, corporate finance, bankruptcy and general business law, and enforcement
through appropriate institutions-is conducive to the development and operation of the private sector.
Such a legal framework generates confidence because investors who cannot predict their rights and
obligations under a given investment decision, and the extent to which they can count on the protection
of the law, will be reluctant to invest and may decide to forgo investment altogether.
It has, however, become increasingly clear that Lesotho's legal sector, which includes, among others,
the judiciary, the various arms of the government that provide legal services, private practitioners, and
the faculty of law at the National University of Lesotho, is at present not fully geared to performing the
role described above and is ill-equipped to meet the challenges of the evolving market.
In this context, the government has sought assistance from the World Bank and other donors to remedy
the situation, enhance capacity within the sector at all levels, and provide a conducive legal and
institutional framework. To understand the problems involved, the government intends to undertake a
comprehensive and thorough review of the legal sector. This review (the strategy study) will produce a
strategy and action plan for the legal sector.
The strategy study and the development of the strategy and action plan will be coordinated and
supervised by Lesotho's Law Reform Commission, which is in the process of being made operational.
In addition, the Commission will consolidate work performed by the consultants and experts who will
examine various aspects of the legal sector and consolidate them into a single strategy and action plan.
The role of the Commission is integral to its terms of reference. The Commission will be chaired by the
attorney general and be composed of a maximum of seven members (including the dean of the faculty
of law and representatives of the Law Society and the judiciary, among others).
The Commission will be supported by a full-time (expatriate) director and a local counterpart. It is
expected that the work of the various consultants will be completed within six months, at which time the
Commission will present the strategy to the government and help it organize a conference to discuss the
strategy and action plan with the donor community.
The Legal System
Lesotho has a dual system of laws that combines received and local laws. Received law is based on a
combination of the Roman-Dutch law that ruled the Cape Colony from 1871 to 1883 and British law that
was applied to Basutoland as a British protectorate until 1966. Received law has been declared the



76
common law of Lesotho. Nonetheless, customary law has survived (particularly in the area of family law)
and was actually strengthened by the establishment of customary courts. These days, critical developments
are reshaping the legal and administrative environment. The 1966 constitution (which was suspended in
1970) was replaced by a new 1993 constitution guaranteeing every person equal protection under the law
and protection from the arbitrary seizure of property (sections 19 and 17, respectively). In addition, the
March 1993 democratic elections created a democratically elected parliament and government.
The Ministry of Justice and Hwnan Rights and the Ministry of Law and Constitutional
Affairs. Both ministries report to the same minister. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the efficient
administration of justice. The main departments in the ministry are (a) the office of the Senior Legal
Officer, responsible for general advisory services; (b) the Judicial Training Officer, responsible for
training of court personnel; (c) the Legal Aid Department, responsible for providing legal services for
the needy; and (iv) the Probation Unit, responsible for the social resettlement of offenders. A fifth
department, the Department of Prisons is in the process of being transferred to the Ministry of Home
Affairs. In addition, the Chief Justice is the head of the judiciary and oversees day to day administration
of justice. The Chief Justice reports for administrative purposes to the Principal Secretary, who is the
most senior civil servant in the ministry. The ministry has about 30 senior staff, not including court
personnel.
The Ministry of Law is administered by the Principal Secretary of Law and has the following
departments: (a) Civil Section, headed by the Deputy Attorney General and responsible for civil litigation
and contracts; (b) the Director of Public Prosecutions, responsible for criminal prosecutions; (c) the
Registrar General, custodian of the registries that are to be maintained in accordance with the various
laws; (d) the Chief Parliamentary Council, which includes the offices of the Legal Draftsman; and (e)
Administration, Finance and Planning, headed by the Deputy Principal Secretary. In addition to this
departmental structure there is the Office of the Attorney General. In accordance with Section 98 of the
constitution, the Attorney General is, inter alia, responsible for providing legal advice to government and
for exercising ultimate authority over the Director of Public Prosecution. The Attorney General is not
subject to the direction or control of any other person or authority in the exercise of its functions.
(Section 98 [4] of the constitution)
The Judiciary. The dualism in the law finds its mirror image in the court system: one administers
received law, while the other administers customary law. The primacy of received law has been
established through appeals procedures allowing appeals from customary law courts to be heard in
received law courts. The 1993 constitution vests judicial power in a court of appeal, a high court,
subordinate courts, court martial, and other tribunals established by parliament. At present, Lesotho has
ten subordinate courts, one in each district. In addition, the constitution establishes the independence of
courts (section 118).
The Judicial Service Commission. The Judicial Services Commission, established by the constitution,
consists of the chief justice, the attorney general, the chair of the Public Service Commission, and a
member appointed from among persons who hold or have held high judicial office. The Commission is
empowered to appoint persons to hold or act in the office of the registrar and assistant registrar of the
high court and court of appeal, magistrate, any member of a subordinate court, and other offices
presctibed by parliament. The Commission is also empowered to remove those persons from office and
advises the king about appointments of puisne judges of the high court and the justice of the court of
appeal.
The Registrar General. The registrar general's office in the Ministry of Law is responsible for
registering (a) all records of family matters (birth, death, marriage, divorce, adoption, and succession),



77
(b) all documentation pursuant to the Companies Act of 1967, (c) all documentation relevant to
bankruptcy proceedings, (d) deeds, leases, subleases, mortgages, and other security interests in real
property under the Land Act of 1979 and the Deeds Registry Act of 1967, (e) collateral interests in
personal property, and (f) all interests in intellectual property. Plans are on the table to decentralize the
various registration functions to the relevant ministries.
The Legal Profession. The legal profession in Lesotho consists of approximately thirty full-time
practicing attorneys. The profession regulates itself in pursuance of the 1983 Law Society Act.
Membership in the Law Society of Lesotho is mandatory for all lawyers who want to practice in Lesotho.
The Society licenses attorneys and has its own code of conduct and disciplinary procedures. The practice
of Basotho attorneys tends to focus on family and criminal cases; no significant experience with
commercial law exists in Lesotho.
Legal Training. Legal training is available at the faculty of law of the National University of Lesotho,
which has about 175 students: fifty new students are enrolled in the faculty each year for a four- to six-
year program. Approximately forty-five students (B.A. and LL.B.) graduated in 1993.
The Law Reform Commission. The Law Reform Commission was established by the Law Reform
Commission Order of 1988. No members have yet been appointed to this Commission, which is charged
with, among others, reviewing the laws of Lesotho with a view to the systematic development and reform
of the law, including, in particular, (a) bringing it into accord with current conditions, (b) eliminating
defects, (c) simplifying it, and (d) adopting new or more effective methods of administering the law and
dispensing justice.
the Law Foundation of Lesotho. Established by the Law Foundation of Lesotho Order of 1991, the Law
Foundation of Lesotho seeks to provide legal education and training to members of the public, to conduct
and sponsor research into the law, to contribute to the creation and improvement of law libraries, and
to investigate and implement ways of expanding the community's access to legal information.
The law authorizes the Foundation to establish a law development center to carry out its projects. To
date, the board of trustees of the Foundation has not been appointed, and the law development center has
not been established.
The Ombudsman. The constitution establishes and empowers the office of the ombudsman to investigate
any action taken by a public officer or authority when a person alleges that he or she has suffered
injustice as a consequence of that action. The ombudsman may also perform other duties and exercises
other powers as conferred by an act of parliament. The concept of an ombudsman is new to Lesotho, and,
to date, no one has been appointed to that position.
Objectives
The overall objective of the strategy study is to examine the institutions and activities of the legal sector
in Lesotho and to develop a strategy and action plan aimed at strengthening Lesotho's legal and
institutional framework. The aim is to provide, on a sustainable basis, the level of legal services (by the
government and the private sector) required to meet the needs of the private sector.
For the purpose of this study, the legal sector is defined in the widest possible sense. The review will
focus primarily on the following components:



78
*    Professional, paralegal and pre- and post-qualification legal education
*    Administration of justice, including qualification of magistrates and judges, structure and
administrative arrangements of the court systems, organization and adequacy of support systems,
and alternative dispute settlement mechanisms
o    Qualification requirements, organization, management, role of the Law Society, and other aspects
of the legal profession
*    Role and organization of the attorney general's office and other legal and quasi-legal offices
*    Access to and dissemination of legal information, including legislation, case law, and information
held at government registries and law libraries, as well as the development of a legal information
system and data base.
Component 1: Legal education. The assignment will carry out in-depth analysis of all levels of legal and
paralegal education offered in Lesotho. The goal is to assist with the development, strengthening, and
maintenance, on a sustainable basis, of a body of legal professionals (in government, the judiciary,
educational institutions, and private practice) capable of supporting all aspects of the legal framework for
the private sector.
The consultants will analyze the purpose and objectives of legal education in Lesotho and the extent to
which these objectives take into account the need to educate legal professionals able to perform the legal
services required in the context of a market economy.
In considering the status of legal education in Lesotho, the consultants will consider the following
aspects, among others:
*    The legal education offered by the faculty of law of the National University of Lesotho, including
(a) the admission requirements for students, (b) the present state and quality of legal education
at the faculty of law, including a review of students, faculty, and courses and degrees offered,
(c) contacts between the faculty of law and other law schools as well as the world of legal
practitioners and how legal practitioners perceive that education, and (d) the requirements for
change in any aspect of the education offered (admissions requirements, quality and type of
courses, mix of skills among faculty, and degrees offered, among others)
*    The quantity and quality of any postgraduate or continuing legal education currently offered, the
requirements for postgraduate education as a prerequisite for practicing in government, and the
requirements for continuing education
*    The quantity and quality of legal and paralegal education (including ad hoc training) presently
offered by an institution in Lesotho and the requirements for change.
On the basis of this analysis, the consultant will determine the existing requirements for legal education
and how and which institutions can meet them best.
The consultant will collaborate with the consultants examining dispute settlement mechanisms, the legal
profession, and the attorney general's office.



79
The assignment will take approximately four to eight weeks.
Component 2: The Legal Profession. In examining the legal profession, the consultant will examine the
following matters:
o    The organization of the legal profession, internal mechanisms for controlling and disciplining its
members, legal ethics, quality control, governance, professional standards, and finances
o    Organization of continuing legal education as well as the minimum requirements for entering the
profession
*    The extent to which the legal profession is active and instrumental in strengthening the legal
sector (for example, through law reform and legal aid initiatives)
*    The relationship between the legal profession and the government (specifically related to the
potential for privatizing legal services).
The consultant will critically examine, among others, the present status of the Law Society of Lesotho
in the context of the role that such an organization should play in Lesotho. Recommendations will include
how the profession should be organized so that it can manage practitioners in an evolving market
economy, what the role of lawyers should be in such an economy, and what is needed for them to fulfill
this task.
The consultant will recommend how best to organize the Law Society, identify the skills needed to do
so, and devise an implementation program to achieve this end.
The consultant will collaborate with the consultants examining legal education, dispute settlement
mechanisms, and the attorney general's office.
The assignment will take approximately two to three weeks.
Component 3: Dispute Settlement Mechanism. A detailed analysis is to be undertaken of the existing
mechanisms for settling disputes with a view to identifying the structural problems that have compromised
the efficient administration of justice. This analysis will address, among others, the following issues:
    Organization of the court system in Lesotho, examining its structure and administration (including
the juxtaposition of customary and civil law courts, the number and location of courts, number
of judges, administrative organization, disciplinary measures, and finances)
*    Position of judges (who are deemed to include all officers who sit on the bench of the customary
and civil law courts), including their independence, security of tenure, accountability, personal
security, remuneration, and pension entitlements
    Role and position of nonjudicial personnel such as the registrar of the high court, clerks, and
sheriffs
    Qualification and needed skills of judges, registry staff, and paralegals and the requiremen  for
preservice and continuing education, in-service training, and upgrading of skills
    Judicial procedures (inefficiencies, bottlenecks, delays, simplification, and streamlining)



80
o    Judicial management (enhancement of the role of nonjudicial staff to include, for example, quasi-
judicial functions such as uncontested motions)
0    Selection procedures for judges
*    Institutional resources and facilities (offices, courts, archives, office equipment, technology, and
books)
*    Access to courts (fees and costs) and the availability of legal aid.
In addition, the consultant will review any available alternative mechanisms for resolving disputes (such
as small claims courts, arbitration, and conciliation) and the need and potential for such mechanisms.
The consultant will examine these aspects critically, making recommendations to revamp the dispute
settlement mechanisms to enhance their performance and reduce delays.
The assignment will take approximately four to eight weeks.
Coomponent 4: Attorney General's Office and Other Government Legal Offices. In examining the role
of the attorney general's office and other government legal offices, the consultants will examine the
following issues:
*    The role of the attorney general as specified in the constitution
3    The role of the Law Office, in particular, whether its organization and mix of skills enables the
attorney general to fulfill this role and provide the services required
3    Identification of other providers of legal services in government and analysis of whether they
adequately perform their roles and f.ow they interact with the Law Office
o    Analysis of the various providers of legal services in relation to one another (that is, efficiency)
*    Relations between providers of legal services in government and the private sector and the extent
to which they use each other's services.
The consultant will examine these aspects critically, making recommendations as needed to achieve a
suitable and streamlined organization for the various offices. The review will also look at the resources
and facilities necessary to enable offices to perform their task.
The consultant will collaborate with the consultants examining legal education and the legal profession.
The assignment will take approximately two to four weeks.
Component 5: Access to and Dissemination of Legal Information. Based on recognition of the
importance of making legal information accessible to legal practitioners and the public alike, the
consultant will undertake the following:
o    Design a statutory consolidation of the laws of Lesotho, including an appropriate (multiple-entry)
index system and procedures to ensure that the consolidated laws are updated frequently; previous
consolidation efforts will be taken into account



81
*    Develop proposals to publish high court and court of appeals decisions since 1981, including the
design of appropriate indexes, and to introduce procedures to ensure the sustainable publication
of cases in the future
*    Examine the various government registries (in particular the registrar general's office) for their
role, their ability to facilitate access to legal information, the reliability of information, staff and
other resource requirements (such as computerization and indexation of files), compliance with
and enforcement of registration requirements, and security arrangements; recommend and design
measures to strengthen the operations of the various registries
*    Examine and make recommendations for how meaningful access to information can be given in
the most cost-effective and efficient way (this will be based on an assessment of the information
needs of government legal service providers, such as the attorney general's office, Legal Aid, and
the Law Reform Commission); this examination will include the ways in which information can
be made available (such as through a library, a computerized data base, or a government
printshop).
The recommendations should aim to provide easy and cost-efficient access to storage, management, and
retrieval of information and should be sufficiently flexible to allow the system to be limited to certain
customers initially and be expanded easily as needed.
The consultant -ill collaborate with the consultants examining legal education, the legal profession,
dispute settlement mechanisms, and the attorney general's office.
The assignment will take approximately four to eight weeks.
Assignment Implementation
The work of the various components of the legal sector is expected to be undertaken during a six-month
period by teams of local and foreign consultants (one of each per team). Thus, on each component,
consultawns with local and foreign expertise will work together to develop the necessary strategy and
action plan for that component. All consultants included on the short list are invited to submit a work
proposal to the Law Reform Commission outlining the approach to be taken. The proposal of the
consultants selected to do the work can be adjusted by the Commission as necessary.
For each component, a comprehensive examination will be undertaken of the present state of the
institutions or activities concerned and due notice will be taken of the work program of the Law Reform
Commission and its possible ir;rrac on the legal sector.
The increasing reliance on the private sector for economic development and the resulting demands
imposed on the legal sector will orient the consultants. The components of the review should be ciitical
as well as constructive, taking a fresh look at institutions and organizations with a view to creating an
efficient, effective, and productive sector, which responds positively to the demands of the intrests it
serves.
A written report will be presented to the Law Reform Commission containing a comprehensive analysis
of the present state, shortcomin, , -nd concrete and detailed proposals for the needed changes (including
the resources required, costs involved, a detailed action plan for implementation, as well as a set of
indicators that can be monitored).



82
To the extent that assignments overlap, the consultants will collaborate with one another as and when
required.
The various strategies and action plans will be consolidated by the Law Reform Commission. To
facilitate this, the work of the consultants will be oriented toward operations, and the reporting process
and types of reports designed will be determined by the Commission. This will require frequent and
active interaction with the Commission, which will manage the work of the consultants and review their
draft reports. The consultants will follow up on suggestions for alternative approaches and other
recommendations-which may include redrafts of the report-brought forward by the Commission. In
addition, they will produce a concise version of their reports in a format indicated by the Commission.
Terms of Reference for a Study to Review and Revise
Utility Tariff Rate Structurs
The proposed study will review the full array of issues causing tariff structures for industry to be less
than optimal in light of Lesotho's efforts to promote investment. The team will consist of experts with
stron:g familiarity with water, telecommunications, and electricity companies. Specific tasks include the
following:
e    A review of the composition and rationale for the current rate structures for industrial users of
telecommunications, water and sewage, and electrification services. Specifically, policies related
to cost recovery, legally required or target rates of return, and cross-subsidization of household
users by industrial users
*    A review of the level of utilities in Lesotho compared with other investment environments such
as Botswana, Mauritius, South Africa, and Swaziland
*    Discussions with a sample of industrial users in Lesotho to get their feedback on the importance
of various types ef utilities in their cost structures
o    Recommendations on how to restructure utility rate structures so that they are more in line with
the requirements of industrial users being attracted by Lesotho's investment promotion efforts and
competitive investment environments in neighboring countries; recommendations should take into
account the need to maintain the commercial self-sufficiency of the respective utility corporation.
To carry out the proposed study, the consultants will work with the managing directors and staff of the
Lesotho Electricity Corporation, the Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation, and the ministry
responsible for water and sewage. The Investnent Promotion Center of the LNDC will also be an
important participant in this process.
Terms of Reference for a Study and Action Plan to Address
Key Labor Market Issues
The objective of the labor market study is to encourage greater use of the country's excess labor. The
study/action plan will design steps to address issues related to Lesotho's labor market with a view to
improving productivity and skills acquisition and to addressing labor relations issues that have recently
resulted in strikes and outbreaks of violence.



83
A review of the economic aspects of the labor market was carried out under the poverty assessment.
The consultant will receive a copy of this report to assist in preparing a proposal. Specific tasks to be
carried out include the following:
*    Review of labor issues affecting long- and short-term productivity of the labor force
*    Detailed recommendations and an action plan to address the need to improve the acquisition of
skills (in breadth and depth) in both the short and long terms
*    Detailed recommendations and an action plap to address labor relations issues, especially between
foreign investors and Basotho labor.
Under the 4IDP, an advisor has been hired within the Vocation and Training Education Department of
the Ministry of Agriculture to develop an in-service training program. Progress with the development of
in-service and on-the-job training will be reviewed and further recommendations made to expand the
coverage of this training.
The consultant(s) should have strong skills in labor market issues from the point of view of economic,
institutional, skills development, and labor relations. Strength in all of these areas will be critically
evaluated in the hiring process.
Terms of Reference for IPC's Role in Privatizaton and Private Sector Development
IPC's role in the Privatization Program will depend in part on the broader role to be played by LNDC
and its group companies in the Program. The following proposal will be implemented under the project
to permit IPC to play an active role in the privatization/private sector development program.
The proposed project emphasizes the need to ensure the full involvement of indigenous
investors/entrepreneurs and that in many instances commercialization will have to precede privatization.
Even if the indigenous investment potential is fully mobilized with IPC playing a promotional role there
will be a need for foreign technical partners at both the commercialization and privatization stage for
many operations. The degree of foreign participation will depend on the individual circumstances.
The role envisage for IPC in the program would consequently be to:
(a) conduct a Public Relations/promotions campaign in Lesotho designed to maximize domestic
investment in the program;
(b)  mobilize foreign technology transfer and investor support for companies scheduled for
commercialization/privatization and where appropriate promote foreign participation;
(c) advise the Privatization Unit and the Government of Lesotho on the measures necessary to create
a climate conducive to private sector (foreign and domestic) participation in the program; and
(d) assist by acting as "midwife" in joint venture and related negotiations.



84
In carrying out this role it would
(i)    consult with the Privatization Unit on what organizations within the program required
foreign technical partners;
(ii)    establish a data base and undertake market research to identify likely technical partners
for companies scheduled for privatization;
(iii)    work with the Privatization Unit to develop promotional material on each of the relevant
privatization candidates (note the ability to make customized indepth presentations is
crucial when promoting technical partnership);
(iv)    conduct specific investment outreach programs to identify potential technical partners
using existing contacts such as OPIC, CDI, UNIDO, IDA Ireland, and employing the
services of appropriate specialized consultants/financial institutions as appropriate;
(v)    organize/coordinate site visits to Lesotho by potential technical partners and act as a
"facilitator" between them and the Privatization Unit/individual enterprise;
(vi)   provide constant feedback to the Privatization Unit and Government of Lesotho on the
attitude/concerns of potential technical partners and recommend on measures to facilitate
their participation; and
(vii)   conduct a promotional campaign (seminars, etc.) to inform indigenous investors of the
opportunities for their participation in the program.
To be in a position to carry out such a program, IPC would need to be strengthened in the following
areas.
Research: There would be a need to strengthen the inhous^ research capability and to provide budgetary
resources to buy in information on potential technical partners and their capability. (This is particularly
necessary since as of September 1993, we will not have the services of the ODA Economist attached to
the Research Section of IPC).
Marketine: The marketing of a specific project to a potential technical partner requires much more
preparation than marketing Lesotho per se to a specific sector because each "package" must be customized
and the presenter must have done extensive homework so as to achieve credibility. Furthermore, playing
the role of "facilitator" between potential partners is extremely time consuning. A marketing budget is
thus clearly indicated.
There is a danger that a focus on privatization marketing would deflect time and resources from IPC's
promotion to potential greenfield investors and steps must be taken to avoid such an outcome. It is
therefore desirable that the existing promotion urit which is working well be strengthened by an
additional marketing executive and be dedicated to the privatization program.
This suitably experienced executive should be recruited and given responsibility for the privatization
program. He would work initially with the investment promotion advisor to fine-tune strategies and
develop the network of contacts which would enable IPC to identify and contract potential technical
partners and develop suitable proposals to market privatization candidates to them. Additional staff could
be recruited as required. There would be a need for a specific budget for this activity.



85
Advertising/Public Relations: In the search for suitable partners as well as an additional marketing
budget, there will be a need for resources earmarked for specified advertising in trade/specialist media
to generate leads. The advertising would focus on specific project specification (almost like tender
advertising) rather than general image building type advertising.
Overall IPC would work as the external marketing arm of the program and there would be need for
clear specification of it's and the Privatization Unit's respective roles so as to avoid overlap.
In Summary: Therefore, additional IPC needs would be as follows:
(i)   A research economist
(ii)  A marketing executive
(iii) Additional budget resources adequate to support the listed activities (including short term
attachment/orientation training where appropriate.
Terms of Reference To Build The Capacity of The Lesotho
Chamber of Commerce and Industry
1.    INTRODUCTION:
The Lesotho Chamber of Commerce and Industry is trapped in a vicious cycle of not being able to
fulfill its mandate as a representative of the business community with other sectors of the state, and in
turn it is failing to attract enough membership as potential members are doubtful of the benefits they
will derive out of the Chamber's membership. This has the effect of reducing the Chamber's access
to funding rhrough membership fees which in turn makes it difficult for the Chamber to fulfill its
mandate when it has no resources.
It is important therefore to inject funding into the Chamber's coffers in order to give the requisite
capacity to carry out its mission and thereby improve its image and attractiveness to potential members
whose fees will provide the Chamber with enough resources to sustain itself.
2.    PROPOSAL:
It is proposed that the funding being made available be targeted at:
(a)  funding strategic management and professional staff posts;
(b)  funding essential office equipment and furniture to facilitate staff operations;
(c)  funding leasing of appropriate and adequate office space for the LCCI.
STAFFING POSTS:
It is proposed that these posts be funded over 4 years on a decreasing annual rates of 25 % with the LCCI
gradually taking over responsibility



86
I.   MANAGEMENT STAFF:
(a) Executive Director                          to be the overall executive head of the
LCCI managing its affairs on a day-to-
day basis.
(b) Economist (and Deputy
Executive Director)                         to be responsible for the monitoring of
the economy and its impact on business
climate. Will be the second-person in
command.
II.    PROFESSIONAL STAFF:
(a) Information and Public
Relations Officer                           responsible for the production of weekly
newsletter and a quarterly magazine.
(b) Projects Officer(s)
(b)                                         responsible for the preparation of
business projects proposals on behalf of
Chamber members and piloting such
proposals with financial institutions.
(c) Executive Officer                          responsible for the office adnistration
an oversigh of accounts of the LCCI.
II.  SUPPORT STAFF:
(a) Accounts Clerk                             to keep books of accounts on a daily
basis.
(b) Typist(s) (2)                              to type correspondence and control
documentation of the office.
(c) Messenger                                  to run errands for the office.
OFFICE EOUIPMENT AND FURNTURE:
(a) Desk-top Publishing                              for the production of the newsletter and
quarterly magazine.
(b) Work Processors (2)                              for typing and storage of material. For
use by the typists.
(c) Camera and Video Camera                          for use by the Information and Public
Relations Officer in recording scenes of
business interest for publication.



87
(d) Desks and Chairs (10 sets)                       for use by staff.
(e) Filing Cabinets x drawer (4)                     for storage of office files.
(f) Safe                                             for safe-keeping of sensitive documents
and unbanked money.
OTHER INFRASTRUCTURAL NEEDS:
(a) Vehicles (1 sedan - 14 x 4)                      for use by the office on field trips.
(b) Leasing New Office Premises                      for accommodation of increased staff
with Board rooms for meetings.
3.    The budget is conceived in two phases. The first phase will take care of the very immediate
needs of LCCI, those of management, public relations and financial administration. The second
phase will come into play once the momentum has been built up in the first phase. The first
phase is estimated to require approximately 12 months to reach full capacity.
As indicated earlier, the anticipated increase in revenue of the LCCI as a result of the bolstering of its
management will offset the capitalization at a rate of about 25% per annum, making LCCI self-financing
in a period of four years. The details of the phased budget follow hereafter.
3.1   PHASE I
Fixed I       Per Month      Total/Month(m)
staff
Executive Director                         6,500
Information & Public
Relations Officer                         3,000
Accounts Clerk                             2,200
Office Space
Leasing (100SM @m25
per square meters)                         2,500           14,200
Furniture & Equipment
Desk-top Publisher           1,400
Camera                      2,500
Video Camera                4,500
Desks & Chairs x 3          5,000
Filing Cabinets x 2           900



88
Vehicle (4x4)              75.000
89.300
Total Operating Budget per annum                       M170,400
Total Fixed Costs                                        9,300
Total Costs for Phase 1 (12 months)                    ^12aZQ
3.2   PHASE 2
Staff
Economist & Deputy Executive
Director                   4,800
Project Officers (2xM300 each) 6,000
Executive Officer           3,000
Typist                      1,700
Office Space
Leasing (100Sm @M25
per sqm)                  2,500                         18,000
Furniture & Eguipment
Word Processor              4,800
Desks & Chairs x 5          8,300
Filing cabinets x 2          900
Safe                        3.000
17,000
Total Operating Budget per annum                       M216,000
Total Fixed Costs                                         1
Total Costs for Phase 2 (12 months)                    M233.000



89
APPENDIX F. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistan  to Privatize LIH
One of the International Monetary Fund's benchmarks for the third annual arrangement under the
International Monetary Fund's Extended Structural Adjustment Facility is the restructuring of UH and
its offering of shares to the public. This provides an important mechanism both to initiate the privatization
process and to foster the development of capital markets. The development of financial intermediaries and
investment products are necessary conditions for the successful public sale of Lu.
In addition, an effective and coordinated marketing strategy will need to be implemented. To that
end, LNDC should designate a capable financial advisory team to execute the sale of LIH to core investors
and the general public.
The team will consist of professionals, including an investment banker, accountant, lawyer, and
communications/marketing expert, with practical experience in marketing equity instruments in an African
country with an economy similar to that of Lesotho.
A significant portion of the team's compensation will be derived upon the successful sale of uH,
in order to allow the advisory team to accomplish the following:
o     Maximize the value of LiH for generating net proceeds to the government
o     Minimize the impediments to sale and the delays in the time needed to complete the
divestiture process
o     Determine the priorities among the objectives of the government and of the LNDC and put
in place structural details to divest LH to a broad cross-section of Lesotho
3     Minimize the complexity of the divestiture and market the program to attract Basotho and
international investors
o     Enhance the international reputation and exposure of Lesotho
*     Assure a positive international reception to subsequent Basotho privatizations.
The advisory team should seekr to resolve various structural issues at the beginning of the
divestiture program, including the following:
*     Arrive at a clear definition of the priorities and objectives of the government and the
LNDC in proceeding with the privatization of LIH
o     Determine the appropriate form that the divestiture of Lii should take in order to be
consistent with these priorities
o     Examine the tradeoffs between offering LIH shares publicly versus selling them to core
investors, the precise impact of the timing of the sale, an estimate of the proceeds to be
derived from the sale, and the optimal placement of ownership



90
o      Determine the appropriate timing of the Lii divestiture given the economic and political
conditions in Lesotho
*      Clarify the competitive position of LU  relative to other private sector investments in
terms of its profitability and cash flow, infrastructure and real estate, and overall level
of efficiency
o      Choose the markets to be accessed in the public offering (Lesotho, South Africa)
*      Take into special consideration the distribution of LII shares among employees, directors,
and local Basotho investors
e      Identify the different classes of LIH shares that should be floated and special voting rights
inherent in the respective classes.
Legal Considerations
In all likelihood, a number of legal considerations will affect the structure of the LiH privatization
effort, including the following:
*      The regulatory authority for the privatization of LII per se
*      The legislation and government policy regarding unit trusts and their activities and the
ability of banks and other financial institutions to market unit trusts to their clients
3      The tax regime to which the privatized Lii will be subject and the implications of its
valuation
3      The necessary legal opinions on certain aspects of the transfer of shares and restrutc4uiGg
of LIH
Offering of LI Shares
The advistry team will undertake the following steps when offering LIH shares to the public:
0      Determine the percentage of the shares to be sold to local and nonresident investors in
consultation with LNDC and the privatization committee
*      Interview and select a local commercial bank or financial institution in Lesotho to assist
in the distribution of the local share offering (for reasons discussed in full below, Lesotho
Bank appears to be the most obvious candidate)
*      Prepare a marketing plan and offer materials to maximize the value received from
investors
*      Design and implement a strategy to attract smaller investors among both resident and
nonresident Basotho



91
*     Assure that investor demand is given priority and fair treatment in the local market
*      Successfully float LIH shares and facilitate the support of LIH shares in the secondary
market in Lesotho
o     Training the participating local bank or financial institution to provide ongoing research
coverage of LIH shares and to distribute the research to current and prospective investors.
Terms of Reference for the Development of a Framework
of Regulations for New Financial Institutions
Facilitating the development of financing and investment products in Lesotho requires a
comprehensive approach to reviewing and amending existing legislation regarding financial institutions,
investors rights, and the privatization effort as a whole. A capital market development steering committee
will be formed as part of the parastatal monitoring committee. This technical assistance committee would
report to and work under the guidance of the steering committee.
First Phase
In the first phase, the committee will undertake the following tasks:
o     Review the regulatory framework in Lesotho to support the development of capital
markets
-     Determine the laws that govern the establishment and operation of unit trusts and mutual
funds, employee stock ownership plans, informal or semiformal group savings schemes
(such as stockvels)
*      Determine specific requirements to facilitate the operation of capital market instruments
and specialized financial institutions
*      Develop an interim plan and legislative guidelines for the creation and operation of unit
trusts. Since unit trusts exist legally in Lesotho, and LIH was originally marketed as a unit
trust, the open questions center around the Bank of Lesotho's process for approving and
regulating unit trusts.
Second Phase
In the second phase, the committee will undertake the following tasks:
*     Implement the plan to development legislation and regulations to govern nonbank
financial institutions and employee stock ownership plans
*     Provide technical assistance to the Central Bank of Lesotho to develop its capacity, and
that of other relevant government bodies, to approve, regulate, and supervise the
formation of specialized financial institutions, investment vehicles, and indigenous savings
groups



92
Develop the legal framework regarding investor rights and protection
Review and amend local tax policy and laws to make them more supportive of equity and
long-term debt investments; specifically, the feasibility of excepting the sale of privatized
companies and transfers of equity investments from the new capital gains tax will be
explored.
QuaIfcadons
The proposed consultants should have extensive legal experience related to the financial sector. They
should be qualified lawyers and investment bankers by training and practice.



93
APPENDIX G. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR BUSINESS
DEVELOPMENTENTREPRENEURSHIP TRAINING
Along with many other countries, Lesotho shares the problems resulting from inefficient and
protected public enterprises, overbearing bureaucracies, distorted or non-existent economic incentives,
external indebtedness, economic stagnation, and a lack of economic and political accountability resulting
from interruptions of democratic institutions. As part of its plan to deal with these issues the Government
of Lesotho has begun to consider a plan for internal cost-cutting by reducing its own staff of civil
servants. It is anticipated that about 500 people will be released during the course of the privatization
program. Letting people go from their jobs, while necessary for the efficacy and long-term viability of
the government, understandably can cause some discomfort and uncertainty among the released civil
servants about what to do next in their lives. The Government of Lesotho feels a responsibility to assist
displaced employees in determining what to do upon leaving government service, and, where possible,
to channel them into a productive future.
The Government is also committed to strengthen entrepreneurship and business skills among
existing business people. The proposed training program would develop modules to address the needs
of staff affected by the privadzation as well as strengthen the entrepreneurial talents of the population.
The Government of Lesotho would like to service everv person.affected by the reducdon in force
(RIP) as follows:
e     Financial Counseling. Assuming retrenched personnel will receive a cash settlement at severance,
it is appropriate that all receive financial counseling. For some RIFed persons who desire to
retire from the work force permanently, services should end at this point. The remaining persons
will either be interested in seeking employment elsewhere or in self-employment and should be
channeled into either how to find other employment or in business development/entrepreneurship.
*     Job Search Training. This should include the provision of services in state-of-art job search
techniques.
-     Business Development/Entrepreneurship Training. A session should first be offered during which
information is provided to help people determine whether entrepreneurship is really the
appropriate career direction for them. After attending this session, the RIFed persons interested
in entrepreneurship should be allowed to opt for a more extensive training program in
entrepreneurship. It is important that this training focus on teaching the participants the
competencies of successful entrepreneurs as well as include training in basic business skills such
as business planning.
In addition, the capacity to provide job search and entrepreneurship development services should
be installed within Lesotho. By installation is meant the transfer of the capacity to conduct and sustain
these training programs to an existing organization or by the creation of a naw institution or division of
the government, as determined by the Government of Lesotho.
*     Training of existing entrepreneurs. The third module of the training would be opened to a broad
spectrm of existing entrepreneurs and would go a step further in imparting more advanced
business skills and assistance with strengthening the product or service which they offer.



94
A Program for Lesotho's Economic Growth
That entrepreneurs perform vital functions in national economies is well established. They are
recognized as the human agents essential to the mobilization of capital, add value to natural resources,
produce necessary goods and services, create employment and develop the means by which trade is
carried on. The entrepreneur's role in development has been succinctly described as "no entrepreneur,
no economic growth."
The approach to be taken regards entrepreneurship as a set of behaviors and practices which can
be observed and acquired. Critical to any effort to detect and strengthen entrepreneurial potential is a
clear and accurate identification of the specific and observable behaviors associated with succssfu
entrepreneurship. Personal Entrepreneurial Competencies (PECs) are consistently demonstrated by
successful entrepreneurs. Ten PECs and 30 behavioral indicators were found to be most useful for
detecting and strengthening entrepreneurial potential. The ten PECs are:
*     Opportunity Seeking and Initiative
*     Risk Taking
*     Demand for Efficiency and Quality
X     Persistence
*     Commitment to the Work Contract
*     Information Seeking
*     Goal Setting
*     Systematic Planning and Monitoring
*     Persuasion and Networking
*     Independence and Self-confidence
The Entrepreneurship Workshop is an intensive program for identifying and expanding
participants' potential to initiate or inprove small businesses or other entrepreneurial activities. It is an
opportunity for individuals to become more familiar with the behavioral competencies of successful
enrepreneurs. The program is preceded by a rigorous selection procedure in which standardized
instruments and personal interviews are used to assess participants' entrepreneurial strengths and
wveaknesses, their overall entrepreneurial potential and their business "readiness." The Workshop is
divided into 3 sections or "clusters"-Achievement, Planning and Power-corresponding to the key factors
ideatified by the research as being associated with successful entrepreneurship. Each of these sections
is further divided into detailed half-day or full-day modules covering the ten Personal Entrepreneurial
Competencies (PECs) identified by the research.
The Business Creation Exercise is a two week event that nms concurrently with the
Entrepreneurship Workshop. While participants are strengthening their PECs inside the Workshop, they
are simultaneously identifying, planning and starting up a micro-business for profit. The Business
Creation Exercise adds a challenging, but iery realistic, dimension to the Entrepreneurship Workshop,
and provides a dramatic opportunity to witness, diagnose and strengthen PECs in a true-to-life business
context. In addition, participants are encouraged throughout the Workshop to apply lessons learned to
their own businesses or potential businesses and are given a specially designed Business Planning
Workbook and individual counseling to assist them in planning their ventures.
The training method used in the Workshop is highly interactive and experiential. In place of
lectures, the training uses structured exercises, power groups, video presentations, diagnostic tools,
business events, questionnaires and other vehicles designed to identify    PECs and enhance them



95
through practice. The Workshop's 80-hour instructional program is taught In two weeks on a full-time
basis. It can also be usefully linked in a variety of ways to existing prograns of management
consultancy, management training or technology transfer.
A critical component in the strategy to foster entrepreneurship is channeling needed finance to
promising new ventures and business expansions. The Entrepreneurship Workshop constitutes an ideal
mechanism for identifying and selection of individu:ls to receive credit or other business assistance
inasmuch as participants completing the program have been thoroughly assessed (and self-assessed) with
respect to their entrepreneurial potential and the quality of their business plans. The banker panel held
at the end of the Workshop serves as a special opportunity.
The process uses for selecting and identifying Entrepreneurship Workshop participants includes:
Pre-Screening Aoplication, An Enterpreneurship Program Application Instrument, used as a
selection tool for all of its workshops, has been designed to measure certain socioeconomic, demographic,
experiential and attitudinal factors which have been identified to be positively linked to successful
entrepreneurship. It is a preliminary screening of applicants using criteria which research has found to
be related to successful entrepreneurship.
The Selection Interview, which consists of two parts, part one, the Business Interview, determines
the kind of business that the candidate is considering starting and, part two, the Focused Interview, is a
forty-five minute interview which assesses the personal entrepreneurial competencies of each applicant.
To conduct and sustain the program a trainer certification process would be Installed so that the
seminars would be indigenized and delivered by about 15 Basotho professionals.



96
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Sunervision Plan
Approximate Dates _             Activitv                Expected Skills
July 1994                  Project Launch Workshop   Operations Officer (1)
a) a 1 day workshop        Privatization Consultant (1)
b) intensive follow-up visits   Disbursements Officer (2)
with Principal Secretaries  Lawyer (1)
and staff which will be
involved in project
implementation
c) training in disbursements
February 1995              Supervision Mission        Operations Officer (2)
a) Follow up on            Consultant (2)
arrangements made for first   Lawyer (1)
year of privatizations/
commercializations/restruc-
turings
b) follow-up on progress
with public awareness effort
c) follow-up progress with
capital market development
-- regulations, establishment
of LIH, development of
NBFIs.
d) follow-up progress with
BAPS, IPC, LCCI, DLSPP
e) follow-up progress with
project studies
fl follow-up progress with
Legal Framework
Component
Novenber 1995              Proress Check/Trouble      Operations Officer (1)
Shooting Mission           __________



97
Februay 1996               Suerviion Misslon          Operations Officer (2)
a) follow-up on            Consultant (2)
arrangements made for      Lawyer (1)
second year of
privatizations/commercializa
tions/restructurings
b) follow-up on progress
with pulbic awareness effort
c) follow-up progress with
capital market development
d) follow-up progress with
BAPS, IPC, LCCI, DLSPP
e) follow-up progress with
project studies; agreement
where possible with
implementation fund
committee on
recommendations to be
financed f) follow-up
progress with legal
framework component
November 1996              Mid-Term Review            Operations Officer (2)
Lawyer (1)
Disbursements Officer (if
Necessary)
______________________  ______________________   C onsultant  (2)
February 1997              Supervion Mission          Operations Officer (2)
a) follow-up on            Consultant (2)
arrangements made for third
year of privatizations
b) follow-up on progress
with pulbic awareness effort
c) follow-up progress with
capital market development
d) follow-up progress with
BAPS, IPC, LCCI, DLSPP
e) follow-up progress with
project studies; agreement
where possible with
implementation fund
committee on
recommendations to be
financed
July 1997                  Trouble Shooftn Mission    Operations Officer (2)
Consultant (2)



98
February 1998               unelion Mission          Operations Officer (2)
a) follow-up on           Lawyer (1)
arrangements made for     Consultant (2)
fourth year of privatizations
b) follow-up on progress
with pulbic awareness effort
c) follow-up progress with
capital market development
d) follow-up progress with
BAPS, IPC, LCCI, DLSPP
e) follow-up progress on
implementation of activities
recommended by project
studies, including legal
framework study
November 1998             Progr   Checs k and        Operations Officer (1)
Trouble/Shooi Mission
Februay 1999              Supervision Mision         Operations Officer (2)
a) follow-up on           Lawyer (1)
arrangements made for fifth
year of privatizations
b) follow-up on progress
with pulbic awareness effort
c) follow-up progress with
capital market development
d) follow-up progress with
BAPS, IPC, LCCI, DLSPP
e) follow-up progress on
implementation of activities
recommended by project
studies, including from legal
framework component
f) preparation for writing of
project completion report
Supervidon of this project will require 20 staffweeks er gemar.



