Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22175
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26120; PPFI-P8450)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 11 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION/RESTRUCTUR1NG
June 21, 2001
Private Sector Development Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Date April 24, 1994)
Currency Unit = Maloti (M) singular is Loti
Ml.00 = US$ 0.31
US$ 1.00 = M3.19
FISCAL YEAR
April 25 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPS          Business Advisory Promotional Services
BEDCO         Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
CBL           Central Bank of Lesotho
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DFID          Development Finance International Department - United Kingdom?
DOs           Development Objectives
ESKOM         South African Electricity Company
ETP           Entreprenuership Training Program
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
GOL           Government of Lesotho
LAP           Industrial and Agro-Industry Project
LADB          Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
LAC           Lesotho Airways Corporation
LB            Lesotho Bank
LCCI          Lesotho Chambers of Commerce and Industry
LEC           Lesotho Electricity Corporation
LPC           Lesotho Pharmaceutical Corporation
LIH           Lesotho Investment Holding
LIPC          Lesotho Investment Promotion Center
LFM           Lesotho Flour Mill
LNDC          Lesotho National Development Corporation
LSPP          Lands Survey and Physical Planning Department
LTA           Lesotho Telecommunication Authority
LTC           Lesotho Telecommunication Company
LSE           Lesotho Stock Exchange
PEs           Public Enterprises
PPI           Private Participation in Infrastructure
PPSDAP        Privatization Private Sector Development Assistance Project
PU            Privatization Unit
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
USRP          Utilities Sector Reform Project
WASA          Water and Sewerage Authority
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Fayez Omar
Sector Manager/Director:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Marilyn Manalo



FOR OFFICLk USE ONLY
LESOTHO
PRIVATIZATION/RESTRUCTURING
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                       14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                              22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001401                                         Project Name:
PRIVATISATION/RESTRUCTURING
Team Leader: Marilyn Swann Manalo                           TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PRIVATISATION/RESTRUCTURING                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-26120;
PPFI-P8450
CountryIDepartment: LESOTHO                                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BR - Public Enterprise Reform; BY - Other Public
Sector Management; DV - Privatization
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/01/1992                                Effective: 09/01/1994           12/27/1995
Appraisal:  06/04/1993                                  MTR:  11/01/1996            12/12/1997
Approval:  05/17/1994                                Closing:  12/31/2000           12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/GOL
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:
Country Manager:      Fayez Omar                                  Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:       Demba Ba                                    David Cook
Team Leader at ICR:   Marilyn Manalo                              Thyra Riley
ICR Primary Author:   Lucy Fye
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU-=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background: The Privatization and Private Sector Development Assistance Project (PPSADP) was
designed as an integral part of Structural Adjustment in the Kingdom of Lesotho where private sector
promotion was central. Specifically, the Government of Lesotho (GOL) established new investment
promotion facilities; increased the access of indigenous businesses to project and equity financing; and
undertook substantial steps to improve the regulatory environment for private sector. As a consequence of
these successful efforts (between 1987 and 1991), the manufacturing sector (with a high rate of
employment creation) had an annual growth rate of 16 percent compared with 8 percent for the economy as
a whole. As a next step, the government indicated its commitment to rationalize the public sector. The
Public Enterprise (PE) sector became the obvious target for reform. The PE sector consisted of 32
enterprises of which 17 were directly owned by GOL, 12 were owned by Lesotho National Development
Corporation (LNDC) and 3 owned by financial institutions. In addition, GOL owned minority shares in
another 31 companies. The PEs presence in some sectors was very strong, mainly due to the fact that GOL
initially established these PEs to ensure domestic ownership of strategic industries and services in the
absence of indigenous private sector. In this regard, GOL decided to revisit its strategy in the PE sector
reform and renewed its commitment to privatization and private sector development objectives by adopting
a revised privatization strategy and program in July 1992. GOL passed a policy statement on privatization,
and at the same time undertook additional strong measures to demonstrate its commitment. These measures
included: (i) restructuring of the Basotho Enterprise Development Corporation (BEDCO); (ii) divesting
from the Co-op Lesotho and the Bus and Foreign Transport Services; (iii) the LNDC sold Pioneers Motors
to a private indigenous investor; and (iv) the Lesotho Bank Act was amended to permit it to sell its shares
and to offer them to unit trusts as a product. Following the democratically held elections in March 1993,
the new government continued with the privatization program and renewed its commitment in their Party
manifesto and again during the budget speech of June 1993. By 1994 some of the PEs were still a serious
drain on GOL's limited budgetary resources and in some cases crowded out the private sector.
The original objectives of the PPSDA project were to promote expansion of the private sector as a leading
element in the government's development strategy. To achieve these development objectives (DOs),
government was to: (a) encourage the expansion of the role of the private sector in the economy through its
privatization program; (b) enhance the competitive environment for the private sector operations; (c)
encourage private investment in sectors that require the transfer of technology and the heavy infusion of
capital; (d) develop capital market instruments to support the PE reform and privatization effort; and (e)
improve the efficiency and productivity of enterprises currently in the PE sector. In achieving these
objectives, the government would give important focus to: (a) reducing the PE sector's drain on the budget,
(b) increasing company ownership and overall business activity, particularly by indigenous investors, and
(c) mobilizing indigenous investment capital for the purchase of companies being privatized.
Relations to the CAS: The project's original DOs were consistent with the Bank's country assistance
strategy and, to a degree, complementary with the other Bank operations (Industry and Agroindustry
Project (TAP- FY91). The LAP introduced a range of investor friendly reforms, overhauled the incentives
structure, removed bureaucratic bottlenecks to foreign investors and established institutions for promoting
local and foreign investment. As a result, the PPSDAP was designed to address capacity constraints in
government and reduce the size of the public sector through continuation of the privatization and
rationalization of public sector activities.
Clarity and realism of the original DOs: Although, the development objectives reflected the priorities of
the economic reform agenda as identified and agreed by the government and the Bank at the time, they seem
- 2 -



too general. Firstly, these objectives were prepared under the assumption that the project aims to improve
all the intended aspects of private sector development, resulting into an overly ambitious and unfocused
DO. Secondly, the DO lacked logic and could not be readily translated into development outcome
indicators. The only measurable indicator defined in the project document relates to the number of
privatization transactions to be undertaken in each year with its estimated fiscal impact. Although this was
one of the key indicators at the time, during midterm review, the Bank should have reviewed this issue of
measurable indicators. It could have re-casted the logframe matrix ex post suggesting the following
indicators: (i) decreased budget subsidies to the PE sector, (ii) improved economic indicators in the
remaining PEs (such as productivity, profitability, utilization of resources); and (iii) increase institutional
capacity within ministries to monitor, supervise and enforce hard budget constraints of the PEs.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had five major components as follows:
Component 1: Privatization: Cost: US$4.2 million. The project provided technical assistance to: (a)
implement a five year program and to develop procedural guidelines for various aspects of privatization;
(b) help the privatization committee prepare companies or government services for sale or privatization; (c)
develop and assist with the implementation of a public awareness/investor education effort to include
development of printed and broadcast media, seminars, to educate the public about the government's
privatization and private sector development program. The project also provided office equipment to
support the Privatization Unit (PU).
Component 2: Private Sector Development: Cost: US$2.2 million. The following efforts were to be
undertaken: (a) strengthening the legal framework for the private sector through the development of a
long-term strategy and action plan, especially to ensure fair and rapid enforcement of contracted
obligations; (b) studies to develop action plans in areas where reforms were required to support private
sector development. These included issues related to Lesotho's labor market and reviewing and revising the
structure of utility tariff rates to make it consistent with the country's strategy for attracting investments in
labor intensive, export oriented industries; (c) efforts to strengthen the Ministry of Home Affairs,
Departrnent of Land, Surveys, and Physical Planning; the Lesotho Investment Promotion Center, the
Business Advisory and Promotional Services, and the Lesotho Chambers of Commerce.
Component 3: Capital Market Development: Cost: US$2.2 million. Technical assistance was made
available to: (a) develop regulatory capability related to new capital market investment; (b) prepare a
prospectus for the Lesotho Investment Holdings (LIH) unit trust, the Lesotho Bank unit trust, or both; c)
access the value of LNDC subsidiary companies to be sold through LIH or another unit trust; and (d)
market the unit trust shares to the private sector including close liaison with the public awareness/investor
education effort. The design of this component was to provide much needed flexibility in terms of financial
assistance to the private sector so that they can participate in the privatization process and at the same time
promote development of the financial institutions and instruments.
Component 4: Training Cost: US$33 million. Training was to be offered to improve technical skills for:
(a) implementing privatization at the level of the privatization committee and GOL officials enterprises; (b)
improving the entrepreneurial and management capacity of retrenched workers, indigenous business men
and local entrepreneurs who took over privatized enterprises; and (c) handling legal matters identified in the
study of the commercial law reform strategy.
- 3 -



Component 5: Implementation Fund: Cost: US$3.3 million. Implementation Fund (including
contingencies), was designed to accommodate some level of flexibility in terms of financial resources that
will be made available to finance investments that were identified by the legal framework study or other
private sector development studies carried out under the project's Component 2. In addition, a link was to
be established with the line of credit under the Industrial and Agro-industries Development Project to make
resources available for new investments and restructuring requirements of privatized companies.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project's mid-term review in December 1997, recommended to refocus the project on utilities and
banking institutions. Consequently, Component 5 - Implementation Fund was canceled for a total of
US$3.0 million equivalent and funds were transferred to Component 1 - Privatization.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project predates the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) process, therefore quality at
entry exercise was not performed. Judging ex post the quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory for the
following three reasons. Firstly, the project did not take into account of Lesotho's environment. The
Basothos were opposed to privatization due to the fear of transferring ownership of privatized enterprises
to South Africans rather then nationals. This led to lack of champions and inconsistency in ownership
during implementation of the privatization program. Secondly, the definition and classification of PEs was
not clear, resulting in inclusion of government departnents. In addition, most PEs lacked financial
information making it difficult to access the financial stance of the sector. Hence, it was difficult to
prioritize the PEs to be privatized and the extent of preparatory work required to package the PEs for sale.
The prepared annual program was highly hypothetical and proved difficult to implement. Finally, taking
into account of the private sector profile, characterized as small and foreign dominated with inadequate
financial accountability, recommended capital market instruments were not appropriate to create a dynamic
private sector in Lesotho. Simpler measures such as venture capital and equity fund could have been
suggested to increase the chances of Basotho entrepreneurs and PE employees to participate effectively in
purchasing PEs offered for sale. These design flaws became apparent during the midterm review.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall project's outcome is rated satisfactory as most of the project's objectives were met. Although only
10 out of 32 PEs were privatized, the privatized PEs were from key sectors of the economy, such as,
finance, transport and telecommunication. In addition, the privatization was done despite strong resistance
from vested interests and a difficult political environment including the political unrest in September 1998.
Furthermore, restructuring activities for the utilities PEs were completed and their privatization is
progressing well.
The first DO - to accelerate the privatization process, the banking and utilities sectors, in particular, is
rated satisfactory. The project was able to privatize PEs from major sectors of the economy including
Lesotho Bank, Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank, Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation,
Lesotho Airways Corporation and Lesotho Flour Mills. (See Section 10 - for details on privatization
transactions). By the end of the project, 10 out of 32 PEs were successfully privatized. Confidence has
been restored in the banking sector and recently a new bank has been negotiating its terms of establishment
in Lesotho.
The second DO - to develop capital market instruments to support the privatization effort is rated
satisfactory. Capital market activities were limited to development of a Unit Trust and a Privatization
- 4 -



TrustlWarehouse. The Unit Trust has been established and will become fully operational by end of July
2001. Further work on the Privatization Trust/Warehouse (which will be a repository for privatized
enterprise shares) will be completed under the Utility Sector Reform Project (USRP). GOL found it
difficult to embark on developing the suggested capital market instruments to support the privatization
program due to a limited number of profitable PEs, a weak financial system and lack of technical capacity.
The third DO - to enhance the competitive environment for private enterprises is rated satisfactory. The
legalframework to enforce contractual obligation has been achieved through the establishment of the
Lesotho Commercial Court on May 4, 2000. The private sector has acknowledged it as a major
achievement from the project in particular with regards to its efforts to address constraints in the financial
service sector. In addressing labor market issues, Lesotho maintained its comparative advantage and
decided to remain cost effective in terms of minimum wages compared to East Asian and neighboring
countries. GOL improved its relations with the industrial firms and resolved issues surrounding minimum
wage, working permits and visas for expatriate workers. Moreover, the utilities tariffs studies conducted
by the project, influenced GOL's decision to adjust its utilities rate structure and tariffs for water,
telecommunications and electricity to enhance their competitiveness and contribute towards private sector
development. The operational and financial situation of the utilities sectors was reviewed by GOL with a
view to reform and promote private sector participation and increase efficiency in delivery of expanded
services. With the assistance of other donors, diagnostic studies were launched and their implementation
was supported by the project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
1.    Privatization: This component is rated satisfactory. The technical assistance acquired through the
project enabled GOL (through PU) to prepare and successfully privatize 10 PEs, representing 24 completed
transactions. This included five transactions in key sectors of the economy namely telecommunications,
banks, industries and transportation. A number of privatization transactions on smaller PEs are still
ongoing and will be completed with support from USRP.
(a) Privatization of Banking sector: To address the difficulties in the banking sector in 1997, GOL decided
to put in place conservators in Lesotho Bank (LB) and the Lesotho Development Agricultural Bank
(LADB). The privatization of the two banks was successfully completed despite their severe managerial,
operational and financial problems. The liquidation of the Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
(LADB) was completed in August 2000. In addition, the Asset Recovery Company was contracted for one
year to recover outstanding debts to LADB and pay out unclaimed deposits (representing 19 percent of
LADB deposits). The collections by the Asset Recovery Company averaged Ml million per month. A
Vesting Act was passed in 1999 to allow Lesotho Bank (LB) to sell its assets and transfer its liabilities to
Lesotho Bank (1999) Limited. This was followed by the placement of new managers, auditors, and
lawyers to regularize loans and improve the debt repayment rate. The completion of LB's privatization was
one of the most significant reform measures undertaken in the financial sector. As a result, confidence has
been restored in the banking sector and recently a new bank has been negotiating its terms of establishment
in Lesotho.
(b) Privatization in the Telecommunications Sector - Reforms in the telecommunications sector have been
implemented at a satisfactory pace. The Lesotho Telecommunications Authority Bill was passed by
Parliament, after which the Lesotho Telecommunications Authority (LTA) was established and became
operational in July 2000. The privatization of Lesotho Telecommunication Company (LTC) advanced
well and was completed in February 2001. It is estimated that there will be a total 50,000 telephone main
lines by 2005 in Lesotho (representing 50 percent increase over 2000 status) and 1,250 public pay phones
compared to 125 that are currently available. The transfer of LTC from the public sector to the private
- 5 -



sector and the issuance of a second mobile operator license to the privatized TLC from June 2001 raised a
set of issues in the context of the commercial provision of services in a multi-operator environment. These
include: ensuring compliance with roll out plan and other conditions of LTC license; provision of safe
guards against anti-competitive behavior; ensuring equitable interconnection regime; regulating the tariff of
dominant operator and promoting greater access to services. Resources will be provided under the new
project - USRP to address these issues.
(c) Restructuring in the Water Sector - Significant improvements have been registered within Water and
Sewerage Authority (WASA) in terms of both operational and financial performances. On operational
side, by year 2000 operating efficiency had increased from 72 to 90 percent and the unaccounted for water
had reduced from 32 to 22 percent. These operational activities were undertaken with the collaboration
with DFID. The number of permanent staff was also reduced from 743 in 1995 to 455 in 2000. On the
financial side, the debt collection rate has improved significantly from 82 percent in 1996 to 95 percent in
1999 and the billing rate was as high as 98 percent. As a result of debt recovery, an increase in operating
efficiency and rightsizing, the overall cash flow for WASA has improved substantially reporting a
break-even on cash balance for the first time in 1999/2000. Despite the operational and financial
improvements, WASA did not have adequate resources to implement its investment programs. GOL has
decided to introduce Private Participation in Infrastructure (PPI) for WASA. Future support for this
sector, including a Private Sector Participation Options Study for the WASA will be provided under the
proposed IDA-funded Water Supply Reform Project.
(d) Restructuring of Electricity Sector - The Lesotho Electricity Corporation (LEC) has been highly
inefficient in providing electricity services due to poor financial and overall management and, hence, lack of
resources for system maintenance and expansion. Significant work was done to review the legal and
regulatory framework of water and electricity sectors. This resulted into drafting of an electricity bill
which was approved by Cabinet in November 2000. The project funded the restructuring activities of LEC
and it is currently under an interim management task force. Additional financial resources to support the
interim management task force, transaction advisory group and the privatization of LEC will be provided
under the new IDA funded project - USRP.
(e) Communication Campaign: The national consensus over privatization program has not been achieved.
This maybe due to two reasons: (i) continued resistance for various reasons including political party
ideologies and affiliations, and (ii) ineffective communication campaign despite applying different
strategies.
() Fiscal, Sociopolitical and Economic efficiency Impact of Privatization Component. GOL is making
substantial savings in terns of outflows of funds and subsidies to the PE sector. For example, it used to
pay more than M60 million per annum to the banks for operational support. With the liquidation of the
LADB and privatization of LB, GOL is making annual savings of approximately the same arnount. Total
privatization proceeds were expected to amount to US$30 million, however US$42.82 million has been
received. Liabilities amounting to US$11.4 million have been paid out of the total proceeds. There have
been some increases in tax revenues from increased productivity in the economy as a whole, including
from the privatized fims. From consultations with the major privatized companies, it was confirmned that
they have almost doubled their tax payments to govemment apart from dividends.
Socio political impact: The process of creating Basotho shareholders and middle class property owners
through promoting ownership of privatized enterprises has been rather slow. Out of the 24 transactions,
Basothos bought only three enterprises. The number of retrenched staff was 1,200 instead of the estimated
500. It however, represent only 3 percent of the total public sector labor force. Safety net measures were
- 6 -



put in place and 486 retrenched workers received training and counseling through the ETP. Arrangements
are being made to provide similar services for LEC and LTC retrenched workers. Due to appropriate
safety measures put in place through ETP, retrenched workers acquired useful skills which enabled 60
percent to be self employed or found employment in the private sector.
Economic efficiency and output. The overall efficiency of the consulted privatized companies have
increased significantly: capacity utilization has doubled; and sales have grown in manufacturing, transport
and financial sector. In many cases, privatization has paved the way for management innovations that led to
new and/or improved product mix and services. Investment in machinery, electronic equipment, buildings
and land (as reported by major privatized enterprises), has increased amounting to equivalent of US$50
million.
2.    Private Sector Development: The component is rated satisfactory. The Studies to develop action
plans in areas for reforms to support private sector development, were completed on time. They included
the legalframework study, utilities tariff studies and labor market study. Upon completion of legal
framework study, PU created a legal review panel comprising government officials and representatives
from the private sector. They were to consider its recommendations that relate to accessibility of legal
information, business dispute settlement, women and law issues. As a result, the commercial court was
established in May 2000 to address business dispute settlement. Commercial Court Practice Direction and
Rules were finalized and signed by the Chief Justice and High Court judges have been appointed. Within a
year, the commercial court has reviewed 2 cases while 11 are registered for hearing. The Law Reform
Commission in adopting the recommendation of the Women and Law study has prepared a bill to address
issues of legal status of married women. Consultations to build consensus for its approval by Parliament
continues to be held nationwide as it has enormous cultural implications. The Utilities tariff rate study
provided valuable information that enabled GOL to adopt reform strategies including private participation
in infrastructure sectors.
(b) Entrepreneurship Training Program: ETP was created to provide counseling and training of
employees from PEs to be privatized. By May 1999, ETP had provided counseling and training of 466
retrenched PE employees. From results of follow-up activities, ETP revealed that out of the 223
participants, 145 have been applying their acquired skills from ETP. The institutionalization of ETP
within BEDCO was successfully completed and ETP has become an integral unit of BEDCO under its
Enterprise Development Department. Moreover, ETP seek to diversifying its product and clientele to
ensure its sustainability. Apart from public sector employees, ETP has trained 519 entrepreneurs in
managerial and financial skills.
(c) Institutional Strengthening: Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of Land, Surveys, and Physical
Planning (LSPP). With support from the project, LSPP succeeded in decentralizing a number of help desks
for the delivery of land title to eight out of Lesotho's ten districts. In addressing issues of property rights
including land ownership a Land Policy Review Commission was created to recommend a way forward. As
a result, GOL will prepare a Cabinet memorandum to recommend changes to permit land ownership by
foreigners.
(d) Lesotho Investment Promotion Center (LIPC) received support from the project to promote foreign
investment to Lesotho. IPC was to promote Lesotho intemationally and also market the PEs to be
privatized internationally in order to attract large investors. IPC made several attempts to promote
enterprises to be privatized but could not yield positive results.
(e) Business Advisory and Promotional Services (BAPS). Project resources were utilized to conduct a
- 7 -



Microfinance Training to micro-finance operators. It was offered by BAPS a unit of BEDCO. This
operation was successfully prepared and completed in November 21-22, 2000.
69 Lesotho Chambers of Commerce and Industries (LCCI) received support from the project to enhance
its ability to act as a voice for the private sector and to communicate more effectively with the government
during the privatization effort. LCCI succeeded to increase its membership and scope of activities and was
able to generate some revenues to cover only 50 percent of its operation. LCCI has revived its offices in the
districts and active branches increased from 6 to 21, improved its relations with GOL through frequent
dialogue and increased its membership base.
3.     Capital Market Development: This component is rated satisfactory. Capital market activities
were limited to development of a Unit Trust and a Privatization Trust/Warehouse. The Unit Trust has been
established and will become fully operational by end of July 2001. Further work on the Privatization
Trust/Warehouse (which will be a repository for privatized enterprise shares) will be completed under
USRP. GOL found it difficult to embark on developing the suggested capital market instruments to support
the privatization program due to a limited number of profitable PEs, a weak financial system and lack of
technical capacity.
4.     Training. This component is rated highly satisfactory. Training offered improved technical skills
that enabled the implementation of the privatization program in PU, privatization committee, and several
civil servants from relevant ministries, in addition, to study tours to Zambia's Privatization Agency and
Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Several staff from ETP, BEDCO were sponsored by the project to
undertake short courses in their respective discipline. A total of 499 retrenched employees and 519
indigenous business men, women and local entrepreneurs were trained in entrepreneurship and
management. Six workshops were organized and funded by the project. The titles of the workshops are as
follows: Privatization for Journalists; Economic Reporting for Journalists; Electricity Tariff; Labor Market
Issues; Valuation Methodologies; and Negotiation Skills (two workshops).
5.    Implementation Fund. This component is not rated because it was cancelled and funds were
reallocated to Privatization component.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had positive institutional development impact on the PU. These skills will ensure the
sustainability of the divestiture and reform exercise. Capacity building was facilitated by the following
measures:
(a) Responsibility for implementing the privatization program was vested with the Basotho. PU was
responsible for the administration of the project and coordination of activities supported by it. The Project
Director as well as the majority of the supporting staff are Basotho. By end of project, PU has built a
reasonably good reputation for its capacity to manage the privatization process professionally, efficiently,
and transparently. In addition advice, assistance and on-the-job training was provided by the in-house
- 8 -



consultants seconded by the project. The same unit will serve as the project implementation unit for USRP.
(b) Use of consultants and international advisors. A consulting firm was recruited to provide long term
assistance and short term consultants were engaged as well to assist in the implementation of various
components of the project. The quality of consultancies as well as GOL's implementation of the advice
received was satisfactory.
(c) Institutionalization of ETP. The ETP has been a successful experience as the program has been
institutionalized by being merged with BEDCO.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were two major factors outside the government's or implementing agency's control that affected both
implementation and outcome of the project, these are: (a) a high level of country risk perception by
investors; and (b) limited capacities of the private sector to participate in the privatization program.
The country risk perception at the beginning of the program was high due to inadequate regulatory
framework in crucial sectors of the economy in Lesotho. Although Lesotho was creditworthy, foreign
investors were not confident that they would be able to make profitable business in Lesotho. This
perception was reinforced during the 1998 political unrest which resulted in s-abstantial business losses
following looting of property in commercial areas. Moreover, LCCI membvrship declined and privatization
of several transactions were slowed as both international and domestic investors were hesitant to invest in
Lesotho. However, by the end of the project, investor confidence has been restored with three major
investors (banking, telecommunications and manufacturing sectors) consideiirg a possibility to enter the
Lesotho market.
Private sector capacity limitations were recognized during project preparation. However, due to lack of
local capital resources and entrepreneurship skills in the private sector, privatization was perceived as a
means to transfer ownership to foreign investors, in particular from South Africa. In order to foster a
broad-based national shareholding community, GOL set up a Privatization Trust Unit and a Unit Trust.
Although both instruments were not fully developed by the end of the project, they would facilitate the
acquisition of public enterprise shares by Basotho individuals in future privatization transactions. In view
of these developments, the level of tolerance and acceptance of South African investors by the public has
improved thus allowing more transactions to be completed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors subject to government control that affected project performance were: (a) cumbersome and lengthy
privatization procedures with in-built political interference during implementation of the privatization
program; (b) ineffective communication campaign to PEs and the public; and (c) failure to establish a
regulatory framework for the utilities.
Throughout implementation of the privatization program, substantial delays occurred in decision-making
mainly due to lengthy and cumbersome political considerations that were in-built in the procedures. A
number of measures were agreed upon in order to accelerate the privatization procedures. These were,
however, not implemented as they required amendment of the Privatization Act. There was no political will
-9-



to review and amend the Act. Thus the slow pace of the privatization program continued. It took the GOL a
lot of time to agree on the annual privatization program as it entailed the review of the PE sector,
discussing and agreeing on acceptable measures to either privatize or restructure operations. Coupled with
the precarious financial condition of most of the PEs and weak local entrepreneurship culture what was
achieved in terms of completion of transactions was noteworthy.
Lack of effective and continuous communication with the general public did not help in maintaining
consensus in favor of privatization program. Mis-communication and lack of partnership with enterprises
management teams became an obstacle during implementation. A more vigorous communication campaign
that emphasize the dissemination of information including positive impact of the privatization program in
the economy would have generated more interest and support from the public and PE sector.
Failure to establish regulatory framework for the utilities before privatization have discouraged
international investors to effectively consider investing in Lesotho. By the end of the project only the
telecommunication sector had established a regulatory agency.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Two factors subject to PU's control that may have negatively affected the implementation of the project
were: (a) its inability to influence changes of the privatization procedures and clearly define the
responsibilities of technical staff and the Cabinet, and (b) lack of appropriate implementation skills at the
beginning of the project.
PU staff tried to introduce measures that would have simplified the privatization procedures without
amending the Privatization Act, but the measures were rejected by Cabinet. At the beginning of the project
PU was overburdened by meetings and demanding procedures from donors who were providing financial
assistance to the privatization program. The task of packaging PEs for privatization was underestimated
and PU found itself taking longer to do the work as new set of skills were required. To address capacity
shortcomings and to enhance the in-house skills, on-the-job training and seminars for staff together with
out-sourcing of expertise for specialized tasks was exercised. By and large, the process is now almost fully
managed by Basotho. Hence, the capacity building process has been gradually fostered, PU staff has gone
through a leaming process before expertise in privatization was achieved. These developments helped to
accelerate the pace of implementation of the privatization program and other private sector development
activities of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original credit amount was SDR 7.9 million (US$1 1.0 million equivalent). At the end of the project,
SDR 6.5 million (US$8.9 million equivalent) was disbursed. The remaining undisbursed balance of SDR
1.4 million (US$1.8 million equivalent) will be canceled.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall project sustainability is rated as likely. GOL continues to show commitment towards its
economic reform program including its privatization program in spite of increasing political pressures due
to upcoming elections in 2002. The sustainability of the achievements is dependent on a stable
macroeconomic environment, the development of a favorable business climate, establishment of utilities
- 10-



regulatory framework, a stronger financial system, and a speedy development of national entrepreneurs in
managerial, financial and technical skills. Moreover, Government' commitment towards regional economic
integration is an essential condition to attract more foreign investors to participate in its economy.
The Privatization Component has been instrumental in establishing an acceptable regulatory framework, in
particular in the telecommunication sector. To ensure its sustainability, the new regulatory agency LTA,
will be required to achieve financial self-sufficiency. Further support to the telecommunication regulatory
framework and the electricity sector will be provided through USRP. The development and growth of the
privatized enterprises in banking, transport and telecommunication sectors is also likely to be sustainable.
GOL will continue to monitor post-privatization impact and issues including collection of outstanding sales
proceeds and payment of claims of creditors and depositors of LB and LADB.
The capacity building efforts through the project's four components have produced substantial results for
both the public and private sectors. The project has achieved its objective of institution/capacity building
for the government's privatization program, legal framework for private sector development and training of
entrepreneurs. The expertise built in PU is substantial and PU is now capable, with limited technical
assistance, to complete the privatization program. The existence of the commercial court would enable
proper enforcement of business laws. The institutionalization of the ETP will ensure continuous skill
enhancement of the private sector.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The development of the private sector, the growth of efficient supply response, and the sustainability of the
utilities sector's support is contingent upon macroeconomic stability and the elimination of obstacles in the
business environment that impede private investment and export growth. The government is implementing a
follow-on operation - USRP. The project has incorporated lessons learnt from achievements as well as
shortcomings of its predecessor PPSADP. This would allow to sustain and expand the developments under
the privatization and private sector development program.
The follow-on operation USRP Project aim to: (i) support the restructuring and privatization of LEC
through providing resources for the interim management task force, transaction advisors, and safety net
measures for retrenched employees; (ii) support regulatory reform in the utilities sector in particular,
telecommunication's regulator LTA and the establishment of an electricity regulator; (iii) develop a future
strategy for the energy sector; (iv) support the development of Unit Trust and Privatization Warehouse and
conduct private sector studies to identify and imnplement recommendations for regional integration; and (v)
strengthen technical capacity in selected government ministries and Technical Advisory Services to the
Board of LEC, Ministry of Communication and Ministry of Finance.
Performance indicators under the proposed USRP include:
(a) Telecommunication sector: (i) completion of installation of 8,000 new telephone connections by year
2002; (ii) consolidation of LTC privatization by June 2002; (iii) additional 25,000 working telephone lines
by December 2002; (iv) achievement of 100 telephone connections per employee by 2004; (iii) completion
of LEC privatization by December 2002;
(b) Electricity Sector: (i) zero budgetary transfers from GOL to LEC by December 2002; (ii) establishment
of electricity regulator by June 2003; (iii) installation of 8,000 new electricity connections by July 2002;
(iv) successful completion of LEC's streamlining by July 2002;
(c) Private Sector Development (i) establishment of unit trust and privatization warehouse by March 2002
and June 2003 respectively; (ii) completion of Muela's commercialization study; (iii) develop strategies for
the development of non-traditional exports by June 2005.
- 11 -



(d) Regulatory Reform: (i) updated regulations; and (ii) institutional capacity strengthened by end of
project
For an operation with the objectives and components summarized above to be successfully implemented, a
stable economic environment where major market distortions have been eliminated, would be necessary. To
ensure a smooth transition between projects, USRP will build upon the experience of PU from PPSDAP to
carry out the technical work and coordination of utilities sector reform and privatization activities. The PU
will (i) strengthen its measures to do regular monitoring and analytical work on program's impact, (ii) put
in place a continuous communication program on privatization and (iii) ensure appropriate administrative
and budget support to sustain the privatization program. By the end of USRP, PU will be fully absorbed
into the structure of the Ministry of Finance.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Despite an inadequate definition of objectives for a private sector development project, the performance of
the Bank in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated satisfactory. There was a lot
of collaboration and consultation with GOL officials in particular during the process of consensus building
within the country to support the economy-wide privatization program. Although initially the design of the
project was not adequate, it was reviewed to ensure that the project was technically, financially and
economical viable. Nonetheless, some aspects were properly addressed, these included:
(a) Insufficient review of the PE sector issues - the definition of PEs was not clear and the list included
govermment agencies which were not functioning as enterprises. It was thus difficult to prioritize the PEs to
be privatized and the workload of packaging the enterprise for privatization became tedious.
(b) Insufficient review on the privatization procedures. Although the institutional arrangements were given
adequate attention, the implementation procedures of the privatization process were not. As a result,
lengthy and time consuming procedures were in-built in the Privatization Act. In addition, a uniform
approval of all transactions by all Cabinet members was required before the PU could continue with the
privatization transaction. With such politicized procedures, implementation of the privatization program
was difficult and slow.
It is well recognized that an independent privatization agency is more appropriate then a unit within the
government. In order to avoid problems encountered by the privatization unit the designing of the
privatization implementation agency should have been given more attention during preparation stage and
changes should have been introduced.
7.2 Supervision:
The Overall, project supervision is rated satisfactory. There was continuity in the Bank's team, its approach
was pro-active and flexible to address issues in a changing environment. The supervision period was
initially planned for semi annual supervision missions with a minimum of two specialists including the
Task Team Leader. Most implementation issues where addressed during mid-term review which resulted
into restructuring of the project and preparation of another project to address the utilities reform.
Appropriate skill mnix of specialized staff in privatization and private sector development were used during
supervision missions. The project had a moderate turnover of Task Team Leaders - three over the course of
- 12 -



project life - continuity was thus maintained. The project has always been rated satisfactory during the 10
supervision missions. The studies conducted under the project were satisfactorily done and the project was
audited regularly. Nevertheless, insufficient attention was given on the requirements to promote Basotho
ownership of the privatized enterprises. Although privatization methods which would have promoted
Basotho ownership were identified during project preparation, the privatization action plan and its
implementation did not follow them. This was mainly due to the fact that the Basotho workers have low
incomes and limited capacity to produce a high quality proposal to the banks to provide financing to
implement management and employee buyouts. The suggested method to assist the Basotho to acquire
privatized assets was not appropriate, resulting in low participation of the Basotho in the program. The
Bank should have been more pro-active in this area to ensure that altemative measures were being
considered to achieve objective.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank's performance was satisfactory. In recognition of the project's design flaws in some of the
components, the Bank took the responsibility of initiating changes to address such shortcomings. As a
result funds were transferred from one component to another to address pressing restructuring and
privatization issues of the banking institutions and the utilities. However, the Bank was slow in taking
action to correct the design flaws in capital market component and consultations to embark on activities to
develop unit trust and privatization warehouse were rather delayed.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The project was initiated by GOL
through the Ministry of Finance who then requested technical assistance from IDA to prepare an economy
wide privatization program. It took GOL two years to review the PE sector, discussing and agreeing with
government and PE management on acceptable measures to either privatize or restructure operations. A
national workshop was organized in June 1993 to ensure that there was consensus on implementation of the
privatization program. The seminar was attended by ministers, Members of Parliament, principal
secretaries, management and staff of PEs and leaders of Labor Unions. Following the national consensus
workshop, a public awareness campaign was launched in April 1994. The political situation was tough but
GOL was fimnly committed and the Privatization Act was passed by Parliament in late December 1995.
Despite commendable efforts, project effectiveness was delayed by 1.5 years. The delays in meeting the
conditions for project effectiveness was mainly due to the delay in the enactment of the Privatization Law
that was satisfactory to IDA. This condition although necessary was highly unrealistic in particular at a
time when the political environment was unstable.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's implementation performance was mixed. Despite of delays in project effectiveness, PU
commenced its work using resources from both Ministry of Finance and the IDA Project Preparation
facility, this included hiring of advisors, consultants to conduct studies and core staff for the unit. The
conflict in the army, two attempted coup-d-etat, assassination of the Deputy Prime Minister of Finance and
the suspension of the Parliament in 1997 created a difficult political environment. Nevertheless, GOL's
implementation performance throughout the project remained at least satisfactory. Stable macroeconomic
conditions provided a good policy environment and kept government commitment coherent with the
privatization program. There was also a high tumover of Ministers of Finance and Permanent Secretaries,
(4 ministers and 4 permanent secretaries over the course of the project) which increased the delay in
- 13 -



approving transactions. A number of privatization transactions on smaller PEs are still ongoing and could
have been completed if GOL's had not been reluctant towards "sale of assets" approach for these
enterprises. The public awareness campaign had compelled senior public officials to travel country wide to
hold consultations with local constituencies. GOL provided counterpart funds in a timely manner. It acted
properly whenever its involvement was required, and collaborated closely with Bank missions and followed
up on the agreed action plans. The Private Sector Advisory Group was established and held frequent
dialogue with GOL. The dialogue provided an important forum for private sector to raise their concerns on
business environment.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementation agency - PU was satisfactory in the execution of the project.
Procurement, financial management and reporting functions were performed satisfactorily throughout the
project's period. PU ensured compliance with all project covenants although there was some delays in
submission of progress and audit reports. The Project management team had experienced a low turnover of
staff throughout the project. This management continuity ensured stability in administrative and financial
capacity throughout project implementation. The experience gained by the team in the execution of this
project has made it possible for GOL to prepare future IDA funded projects. However, the issue of the
project getting qualified audits could not be resolved mainly due to the banking institutions which failed to
reconcile the project accounts. This problem was encountered uniformly by other project implementation
agencies and business entities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated was satisfactory. Key staff of PU and Ministry of
Finance showed consistent commitment to the objectives of the project and worked hard to improve their
own skills. The complex nature of the project demanded a high level of coordination and attention to
details. Procurement procedures were adhered to with a high standard of reporting which was maintained
throughout the project. The Bank was kept informed of all critical developments of project activities.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons can be learned from design, implementation and outcomes of project:
*   Quality at Entry is essential in designing of projects. Intensive consultation during project
preparation with stakeholders, in particular, the private sector, facilitates understanding of reforms
especially privatization. Political risk assessment to consider political realities including instability's
should be adequately reviewed during project preparation.
*   Strong and consistent government commitment and ownership of the privatization program are
essential to the success of the program.
*   Strong privatization agency, with skilled staff, empowered with appropriate authority to carry out
the reform and appropriately defined responsibilities, is another key to its success. PU was not an
agency but rather a unit under the Ministry of Finance. As a result it was subject to political
approval and endorsements. Moreover, institutional capacity building is a slow process and
- 14-



expectations should be modest. Greater attention should be given to monitoring and reporting on the
impact of privatization. This is necessary to demonstrate that the processes are delivering the
benefits promised and thereby maintain consensus to keep up the momentum of reforms.
* Public awareness, participation of stakeholders and consensus building are essential to the
program. The stakeholders must be kept informed and engaged from early on in the process to
ensure their active participation in designing the policies and implementation of the reform.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
The Government prepared its own Implementation Completion Report for the project based on interviews
with and reports of the beneficiary institutions, discussions with Government officials, project progress
reports, and other materials from project files in Lesotho.The Government's implementation completion
report, which rated the project as satisfactory, is reproduced below:
REPORT ON THE PRIVATISATION
AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
INTRODUCTION:
1.1    At the inception of the Privatisation Programmne in February 1995, the privatisation portfolio
comprised of at least 32 named parastatals, including 17 Government of Lesotho directly-owned
enterprises, 12 Lesotho National Development Corporation companies, and 3 Lesotho Bank
companies. Government and the general public believed that most of the parastatals were
potentially viable given efficient management and fresh capitalisation. But with the exception of
Lesotho Flour Mills, enterprises that were initially offered for privatisation by both the
Government and the Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) were generally poor
performers that had been regular recipients of Government subsidies for their survival.
1.2    Throughout its duration the project was pervaded by a public perception that by withdrawing from
commercial activity, the Government was either abdicating its responsibility to deliver services to
the nation, or handing over the country's sovereignty to a new form of economic colonialism.
These concems were at times voiced reservedly by members of Government itself, as in the case of
Lesotho Flour Mills, where the inclusion of a "Golden Share" clause in the sale agreement became
an ultimate condition before Cabinet assent could be given as the enterprise was considered
strategic.
1.3   In cases where Government disclosed mismanagement, abuse and fraud as responsible for poor
performance, the general criticism was that Government was equally guilty of inaction in allowing
these faults to go unchecked for years. Perhaps fearing to invest their savings in enterprises that
might continue to perform badly, potential local investors who tried to participate in some of the
sales considered it their right to expect Government concessions and subsidies to finance the
purchase. In other instances the public in Lesotho felt that the project has been badly designed in
not having set aside financial resources to provide venture capital on favorable terms for Basotho
entrepreneurs as the Lesotho commercial banks were notoriously averse to granting investment
credit.
- 15-



1.4   The Privatisation Act, which defines the policy and operational framework goveming the
privatisation process and programme was enacted in November, 1995. The Act established the
Privatisation Unit as the agency responsible for carrying out the process on behalf of Government,
and defined various methods that could be used to effect the process. Through powers defined in
the Act, the Unit in the same year appointed the firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu to act as the
project's consultants in the implementation of the privatisation programme.
1.5   The primary objectives of the Lesotho Privatisation Project were to restructure the economy in
such a way that Government would be unburdened of heavy subsidies to badly-managed state
enterprises; to attract private sector management skills and capital; and to allow Government to
concentrate on regulation and facilitative roles rather than on direct business operations which were
distorting the functions of the public service. The vision of Government was always clearly
articulated although the proposed changes met unexpectedly fierce resistance from vested
interests. The intensity of the resistance seemed to be always underestimated by external observers
including successive missions of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund who seemed
to question instead clarity of the vision as well as the commitment to restructuring the economy.
2.    LESSONS DRAWN FROM ENTRPRISE-BASED ACTIVITIES:
2.1    LESOTHO AIRWAYS CORPORATION:
2.1.1  The first enterprise to be privatized was Lesotho Airways Corporation during the latter part of
1997, through the sale of assets for operation of the business (aircraft, spares, etc) to a South
Africa based company, ROSSAIR. Lesotho Airways Corporation was technically insolvent at
privatisation, and had become a recipient of an annual Government subsidy amounting to M5
annually million over a period of five years. The sale excluded assets relating to landed properties
which remained under the ownership of Government.
2.1.2  Air Lesotho suspended operations in February 1999 because it could not sustain the competition
from Air Link, a subsidiary of South African Airways whose decision to exercise its right to fly to
Lesotho coincided with the privatisation. Additionally it seems that Air Lesotho was handicapped
by outmoded regulations that restricted leasing of aircraft.
2.1.3  The privatisation of Lesotho Airways Corporation resulted in the retrenchment of all the workers,
giving proof to observers, of the negative label that had been used by labor union leaders in
warning the nation against privatisation.
2.1.4  The Government's commitment to pay terminal benefits proved to be an expensive exercise which
drew some disquiet among some members of Government who felt that the workers who had
contributed towards the downfall of the enterprise did not deserve a "golden handshake". This
situation could have come as a matter of course had the Government decided to liquidate this and
other similar enterprises.
2.1.5  This uneasiness over the payment of terminal benefits affected the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services,
where again it was felt that poor management and abuse by some of the workers had led to the
downfall of the parastatal. The retrenchment packages and the decision of Government to
guarantee the savings of depositors' in the privatisation of the two state banks led to frequent
reference to what was to be referred to as "the heavy cost of privatisation".
- 16 -



2.2    LESOTHO FLOUR MILLS:
2.2.1  Although a historically profitable enterprise, Lesotho Flour Mills faced stiff competition as a result
of the deregulation of grain products in Southern Africa in 1997. The sale of majority
shareholding to Seaboard Corporation of the United States was effected in May, 1998. The sale
agreement provided for the transfer of 51% shareholding to Seaboard, with 10% shareholding
reserved for sale to employees, and 39% to the public. The sale included a "Golden Share"
provision to ensure protection of the vital national interests in the company. This divestiture
highlighted the high sensitivity attaching to a crucial staple food processing and marketing
enterprise.
2.2.2  Because of its historically profitable performance and positive worker morale, the employees of
LFM were able to gain better dividends from its privatisation. When the enterprise was listed for
privatisation, a group of workers expressed a desire to purchase some shareholding in the
enterprise. As a result, 10% of the shareholding was reserved for them, and a payment mechanism
for this Employee Share Ownership Scheme is being devised.
2.2.3  The strategic investor agreed to take over the contracts of all workers, with Government
undertaking to meet the retrenchment packages of
workers retrenched during the first year of operation. As part of the sale agreement, the investor
undertook to allocate funds for the retraining of workers retrenched during the first three years of
operation. These workers were retrained for alternative employment through the Entrepreneurship
Training component of the project. Subsequently arrangements were made for those who passed
their training programmes to receive start-up loans for own businesses from the training fund.
2.3   INTERNATIONAL FREIGHT AND TRAVEL SERVICES:
For purposes of privatisation, The International Freight and Travel Services was divided into its
three components, the car rental, the freight service and the travel agency. Avis (South Africa)
bought back 80% of the assets of the car rental shareholding in April 1998, with 20% shareholding
withheld for future sale to the public. A local investor has purchased these shares. The freight
service elicited no investor interest, and its business was wound up. The travel division, American
Express, received unresponsive bids and was eventually put under liquidation by its direct owner,
Lesotho Bank. The former workers of American Express have since established their own private
sector driven travel agency, and share the market with a few other private sector agencies that have
started operating in Maseru.
2.4.   PLANT AND VEHICLE POOL SERVICES:
2.4.1  In its initial privatisation scheme, the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services was divided into its nine
components each of which was viewed as affordable and manageable for local investors. Although
several attempts were made to attract local interest, this enterprise was still on the privatisation list
by 1998. A December, 1997 forensic investigation into the operations of the service revealed
serious fraud and abuse of public funds. This strengthened Government's resolve to privatize the
entity. An interim management team with the mandate to seek a buyer for the enterprises was
engaged in 1998, and the enterprise was eventually privatised through the sale of 80% of its
- 17 -



shareholding to Imperial Fleet Services of South Africa in January, 2000. Essentially this means
that the Government of Lesotho now leases up to two thirds of its vehicle fleet needs from the
private sector which is a major departure from the previous arrangement whereby the Government
owned and maintained all its vehicles. Inperial Fleet Services (Lesotho) has leased some of the
forner Government workshops. Those that are not needed are being sold. The main Heavy Plant
Pool workshop which was no longer needed has subsequently been sold to a local investor in
August, 2000.
2.5    LODGES:
In earlier efforts to stimulate tourism the Government had constructed and run tourist lodges
without much success. Consequently it was decided to privatize the lodges. In the absence of an
outright buyer, Marakabei Lodge was, in April 1998 sub-leased for a period of three years to
MCM Enterpises, a company consisting of two South Africans and a local investor. Towards the
end of the three-year lease they have expressed an interest to purchase the lodge, and negotiations
are currently underway with the Privatisation Unit. The Orange River Lodge was disposed of by
public auction in October, 1999 to a local investor.
2.6    Minet Kingsway (Ptv) Ltd:
The Government also decided to divest its majority interest in the insurance brokerage business. In
response to a proposal from Aon Risk Services, U.K. to take over the entire shareholding of the
former Lesotho Bank in Minet Kingsway (Pty) Ltd, negotiations were held in February 2000. The
negotiated agreement provides for the acquisition of an additional 31 per cent shareholding in the
company by Aon Risk Services. This brings the total Aon Risk Services shareholding to 80 per
cent, leaving the Government of Lesotho with 20 per cent which will possibly be transferred to the
Unit Trust for Basotho investor participation.
3.    UTILITIES AND THE BANNING SECTOR:
3.1    Utility Tariff Studies undertaken at the inception of the project recommended the restructuring of
the three utility companies and the review of tariffs rates to attract foreign investors and satisfy the
existing private sector. Although undertakings were made to effect these changes, none of them
were followed up with action. Coupled with the severely distressed condition of the state banks,
which reportedly date back to the early nineties, some observers are disposed to argue that the
project might have started with the privatisation of these entities as a prerequisite to private sector
development. On the other hand the complexities of utilities and bank restructuring have turned
out to be so taxing that the initial experience gained from other parastatals has been a practical
benefit.
3.2    One of the major developments during the World Bank mid-term review of December 1-14, 1997
was the decision to give high project priority to the restructuring of the state banking sector and the
utility companies. Intemational Development Ireland (IDI) was appointed as conservator for both
Lesotho Bank and the Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank in December, 1997. The LADB
was finally liquidated in December, 1999. Lesotho Bank was privatised by disinvestments of a 70
per cent shareholding to Standard Bank with GOL retaining 30 per cent in the new Lesotho Bank'
99.
- 18-



3.3    The project successfully laid the groundwork for restructuring of the telecommunications sector
with the Telecommunications Bill leading to the establishment of the Telecommunications
Authority and the privatisation of Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation, LTC.
3.4    The project also laid the groundwork for restructuring of the energy sector through support for
preparation of an electricity regulation bill. Staff of the Privatisation Unit were actively involved
in the preparation of the new Lesotho Utilities Reform Project.
4.    PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT:
4.1    PUBLIC PARTICIPATION:
4.1.1  DIRECT PARTICIPATION:
Although the size of enterprises in the portfolio varied, most of them were evidently too large for
the traditional individual ownership by local investors. Apart from an inability to prepare
convincing bid documents, a major impediment to local participation was the absence of
mechanisms for raising funds from commercial banks, and the absence of resources for venture
capital as part of the project.
4.1.2 The management of Loti Brick and employees of Maluti Highlands Abattoir expressed interest in
Employee Buy-out arrangements, but neither were able to raise the requisite capital. Although the
Unit suggested and was willing to arrive at affordable payment arrangements, none of these were
followed up to successful conclusion by the groups. A three-year lease arrangement with the
option to buy was only arranged successfully in the case of Marakabei Lodge.
4.1.3 The offer of sale of Government's 12% shareholding in VCL (widely perceived to be profitable),
has inspired the formation of a local investment holding company, Sekhametsi Investment
Consortium, which successfully raised funds from the public to bid for the shareholding. In its
negotiations with Sekhametsi, Government has agreed to grant preferential payment mechanisms to
facilitate this commendable initiative. This is a transaction that is being closely watched, and has
generated great public interest. It is hoped that this initiative will encourage other groups to
undertake similar investmnents in the other privatized enterprises.
4.2   INDIRECT PARTICIPATION: Establishment of Unit Trust:
4.2.1  The considerable time taken in establishing a vehicle for public participation in the programme has
somewhat eroded, in the eyes of the public, Government's assertion that the programme of
restructuring could be of benefit to potential Basotho investors. This despite the fact that many of
the enterprises privatized could not have qualified for listing had such a mechanism existed earlier
as the enterprises did not have a track record of profitability.
4.2.2 Following protracted consideration of various options for promotion of public participation, it was
fnally recornmended to Cabinet that the chosen vehicle be a Unit Trust. The willingness of
Government and the LNDC to sell some of their shareholding in profitable enterprises to form the
Trust's portfolio should make this investment mechanism popular among the Basotho.
- 19-



5.    ENTREPRENEURSHIP TRAINING PROGRAMME:
The project correctly identified that restructuring of the economy would create many new
opportunities requiring new kinds of entrepreneurial skills. Privatisation has been accompanied by
outsourcing of various non-core services as part of deliberate government policy. Unfortunately
the linkages between privatisation and ETP have not been very successful and training programmes
mounted by the ETP have not been adequately responsive to the restructuring process.
6.    PUBLIC AWARENESS PROGRAMM:
The need to depolitisise the process of economic transformnation in Lesotho is highly critical for the
privatisation programme. The "siege" mentality which is historically derived from Lesotho's
geographical position as an enclave within the borders of South Africa has not changed
significantly despite political changes in South Africa. It is quite obvious that the Basotho people
still do not fully understand the economic implications of the political changes in the region. This
calls for a sustained public awareness effort on the new economic situation that has the full support
of the highest authorities in Government.
7.  CAPACITY BUILDING OF LESOTHO CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND
INDUSTRY:
Over a period four years the project gave direct assistance to the capacity building of the LCCI to
enable the Chamber to play a more proactive consultative role in its interactions with Government
and positive mobilization of potential membership. At the end of the project the LCCI is a stronger
and vibrant organization - actively participating in regular consultative meetings with Government
and other nongovermnental organizations locally and internationally.
8.    ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMERCIAL COURT:
The inauguration of the Commercial Court on May 2, 2000 was one of the signal achievements of
the project in the creation of an environment that facilitates business by speeding up resolution of
disputes and assuring investors about the availability of conflict resolution mechanisms. The
commercial banks in Lesotho were particularly concerned about lengthy delays in processing loan
default cases and had become reluctant to grant loans.
9.    DONOR SUPPORT:
Although the Lesotho Privatisation Prograrnme has primarily been a project of the Lesotho
Government and the World Bank (IDA), it also attracted modest support from other donors in the
course of its implementation. The British Government gave staff support through the Overseas
Development Institute (ODI) by sponsoring two ODI fellows who served as Economists in the
project. The Govermrnent of the Federal Republic of Germany sponsored an advisor to the
Director. The Government of the United States of America sponsored the Director on a
month-long study tour of privatisation initiatives in the U.S.A. at Municipal, State, and Federal
levels. The Government of the Republic of France also sponsored Privatisation Unit staff to attend
a Southern African regional workshop organized by the French Government on privatisation
experiences in Africa. The Privatisation Unit received maximum cooperation from the local office
of the United Nations Development Programme which also provided the Unit with useful current
publications about privatisation projects throughout the world. Useful contacts were also
- 20 -



maintained with the Delegation of the European Union to Lesotho and with the Embassy of the
Peoples Republic of China. The European Investment Bank took particular interest in the
privatisation of Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation. The Consulate of the Republic of
Ireland also showed active interest in the evolution of the privatisation programme, and sponsored
a workshop on Internet Connectivity and Regulation which was a significant contribution to the
telecommunications restructuring programme.
10.   NEED FOR PARTNERSHIP IN DEVELOPMENT: WORLD BANK:
One of the lessons of the project has been the need for the World Bank to fully appreciate the
intensity and character of local resistance to privatisation, some of which was actually directed
rightly or wrongly, at the World Bank itself. The fact that the economic restructuring programme
was a joint venture of the Government of Lesotho and the World Bank was not adequately
projected by successive World Bank Missions. The tendency has been for the most Senior
Officials of the World Bank associated with the project to occupy remote seats of judgment about
the pace of project implementation without taking into account the depths and complexities of local
resistance. In future it will be helpful if Senior World Bank Officials maintain some direct
interaction with local project officials to gain a full understanding of implementation problems.
The Director for Lesotho visited the Privatisation Project only once in a period of 4 years despite
numerous visits to Lesotho, and clearly never fully understood the complex dynamics of the project
at the implementation level.
11.   ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:
Many people and offices have contributed to the attainment of whatever achievements the project
may have reached in five years against all odds. The Project was fortunate to have a highly
dedicated team in the Privatisation Unit. The Project appointed some extremely talented
Consultants to assist in the implementation of some of the key assignments of the project. The
Private Sector Advisory Committee provided immensely useful advice and criticism, and last but
not least the Government of Lesotho gave consistently strong support to the programme of
Economic Restructuring in spite of sometimes fierce opposition.
Privatisation Unit
Maseru
April 2001
(b) Cofinanciers:
USAID, CDF, DFID contributed to the privatization program in terms of technical assistance.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).-
N.A.
10. Additional Information
LESOTHO: Privatization in Lesotho 1995 - 2001
Name of PE                           Gross Proceeds (US$ million)
1. Plant and Vehicle Pool Services                             11.30
2. PVPS Plant Building                                          0.03
- 21 -



3. Minet Kingsway                                             0.22
4. Avis                                                       0.05
5. Lesotho Airways Cooperation                                2.40
6. Lesotho Flour Mills                                        10.70
7. Marakabei                                                  0.02
8. Orange River Lodge                                         0.02
9. Lesotho Telecom Corporation                                17.00
10. Vodacom Lesotho                                           0.69
Total Proceeds                                                42.82
Note: 9 PEs were liquidated by end of project.
Source: Government of the Kingdom of Lesotho: Ministry of Finance
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
ItndicatorlMatrix                  Projected In last PSR                 ActualLatest Estimate
Govemment divestiture for two state banks   Liquidation of Lesotho Bank was approved by Done
completed.                            Cabinet in Oecember 1999. New company
Lesotho Bank (1999) was created and 70%
of shares were privatized. GOL own 30%.
Liquidation of Lesotho Agricultural
Development Bank was completed in August Done
2000.
Govemment divestiture for state       GOL awarded LTC to winning bidder in  Done.
telecommunications completed.         November 2000 and commenced           Negotiations completed in February 2001.
negotiations on the Draft Agreements with
private strategic investor. Draft agreement
included roll out target for investor on
connected lines, public pay phone, intemet
access infrastructure and fixed capacity for
each of the five years.
Privatization of Lesotho Telecommunication
Company was completed in February 2001.
Telecommunications Regulatory reform is   Lesotho Telecommunication Authority was   Done.
placed, resulting in increased competition.   established and became operational since
July 2000. The LTA is independent and has
an equitable interconnection regime in place.
However, since there is no Competition Law
in Lesotho, the LTA lacks competitive
safeguards. These will be dealt with by the
successor project USRP.
Output Indicators:
IndicatoffMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                 ActualLatest Estimate
1. Privatization:
(a) Secure two state banks by appointment of Conservators were appointed in 1998.  Done
conservators. (Dec 97)
(b) Completing Privatization of at least 10    Government approved sale of assets of 4    Partially done.
small and medium sized PEs before Cabinet state owned enterprises.
by December 1999.                     The privatzation of the remaining PEs is
constraint by lack of serious private
investors, lack of capital for local investors
and governments' protracted decision to
consider the sale of assets approach for the
PEs.
(c) Bring Lesotho Agricultural Bank to point Liquidation of Lesotho Agricultural  Done.
of closure by June 1998.              Development Bank was completed in August
2000.
- 23 -



(d) Bring Lesotho Bank to point of sale by    Liquidation of Lesotho Bank was approved by Done.
June 1999                             Cabinet in 1999.
(e) Streamlined prvatization procedures  - Small enterprises to be privatized will  Not done.
require Cabinets sub-committee approval;
- 10 day limit for Cabinet decision on large   Not done.
enterprises to be privatized;
- Interagency steering Committee was  Not done.
established to facilitate privatization process,
once enterprise is gazette for privatization;
- Privatization Unit has observer member
status on Boards of enterprises to be  Not done.
pnvatized by June 1998.
2. Utilities Reform:
(a) Agree draft telecommunications law and  The Telecommunication Law was enacted in Done
agree divestiture strategy for state operator  November 1999.
by June 1999                          The TLC divestiture strategy was agreed by
GOL in 1999
(b) Bring Telecommunications operator to   The winning bid was selected in November  Done
point of sale by June 2000.           2000. Privatization of TLC was completed in
February 2001.
3. Regulatory Reform:
Draft regulatory framework for water and  Completed in November 1999.        Done
electricity sectors promoting PPI by June
2000
4. Capital Market Development:
(a) Framework for Unit Trust to promote local A consultant has been appointed to develoP  Partially done
private sector participation ready (June 99)  framework for Unit Trust and its
establishment. Assignment to be completed
in Febnuary /March 2001 and operational by
July 2001.
(b) Improve Central Bank Supervision  The Central Bank of Lesotho Bill of 1999 was Done
capacities by December 1998            enacted in August 2000.
5. Training:
(a) Entrepreneurship training schemes in    The Entreprenuership Training Program was Done
place. (Dec. 97)                      incorporated into Basotho Enterprises
Development Corporation (BEDCO) in
December 2000. It continues its training
activities for trainers and small scale
entrepreneurs, It has recently been
contracted to cover training requirements of
employees affected by privatization of
enterprises and services in the agriculture
sector.
(b) Training of at least 500 trainees for  Trained 486 retrenched employees and 519  Done
Entreprenuership and re-deployment.   private entrepreneurs. 60 percent of those
trained are utilizing their new acquired skills.
- 24 -



6. Strengthening of Private Sector
Association.
(a) Encouraging greater seHf sufficiency in   Lesotho Chambers of Commerce and  Partially done
organized private sector groupings - Lesotho Industry became 50% self sufficient by end
Chambers of Commerce and Industry      of 2000 instead of 75% as targeted mainly
due to the September 1998 political unrest
which disrupted business infrastructure.                                      I
End of project
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)        __._.
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Privatization                                        4.50           5.71            126
Private Sector Development                           2.20           2.20            100
Capital Market Development                           0.20           0.00              0
Training and Institution Building                    0.90           0.90            100
Total Baseline Cost                                 10.80           8.89
Price Contingencies                                 1.60           0.00              0
Total Project Costs            12.40            8.89
Total Financing Required             12.40           8.89
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category     Ica           NCB          Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.80         2.50          0.00         0.00         3.30
(0.30)       (2.50)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (2.80)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00          0.30         0.00         0.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)        (0.30)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          7.30         0.00         7.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (7.30)       (0.00)        (7.30)
4. Others (recurrent costs   0.00         0.00          1.50         0.00         1.50
and unallocated)
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.60)       (0.00)        (0.60)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     0.80          2.50         9.10          0.00        12.40
(0.30)       (2.50)       (8.20)        (0.00)      (11.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)~
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCu         Other'       N..F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.30          0.00        0.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)       (0.30)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         8.80          0.00        8.80
- 26 -



(0.00)         (0.00)          (8.40)         (0.00)         (8.40)
4. Others (recurrent costs        0.00            0.00            1.60           0.00           1.60
and unallocated)
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.20)         (0.00)         (0.20)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
_______________________   (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00           10.70           0.00           10.70
(0.00)         (0.00)          (8.90)         (0.00)         (8.90)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 27 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No, of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/1992                      6   Task Team Leader, Investment
Promotion Specialist, Capital
Market Specialist, Privatization
Specialist, Intern, Financial
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/1993                       5   Task Team Leader, Counsel,
Investment Promotion
Specialist, Lawyer, Capital
Market Specialist,
Privatization Specialist
Supervision
03/18/1995
03/29/1996                    7   Senior Operations Officer (Team     S              S
Leader), Privatization Specialist,
Energy Specialist, Private Sector
Development Specialist, Tourism
Specialist, Investment Promotion
Specialist, Export Promotion
Specialist
08/28/1996                    2   Senior Operations Officer (Team     S              S
Leader), Privatization Specialist
06/27/1997                    2   Senior Economist (Team              S              S
Leader), Senior Operations
Officer
12/12/1997                   5   Senior Economist (Team               S              S
Leader), Privatization Specialist,
Financial Sector Specialist,
Telecommunication Specialist
and Project Management
Specialist
04/24/1998                    3   Senior Economist (Team              S              S
Leader), Privatization Specialist,
Telecommunication Specialist
- 29 -



02/17/1999                    3   Senior Economist (Task Team         S              S
Leader), Operations Analyst,
Micro-Finance Specialist
(Consultant)
06/10/1999                    2   Senior Economist (Task Team         S              S
Leader), Utilities and
Privatization Specialist
11/11/1999                   3   Senior Economist (Task Team          S              S
Leader), Operations Officer,
Utilities and Privatization
Specialist
03/10/2000                    4   Operations Officer (Team            S              S
Leader), Senior Private Sector
Development Specialist, Senior
Advisor, Private Sector
Development Specialist,
09/13/2000                    3   Team Leader,                        S              S
Telecommunication Specialist,
Senior Private Sector
Development Specialist
ICR
03/26/2001                   1    Private Sector Development           S             S
Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/La est Estimate
No. Staff weeks               USS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  23                         63.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                     31.1                         81.6
Supervision                               83.9                        215.2
ICR                                         10                           35
Total                                      148                        394.9
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
I Macro policies                          O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
? Sector Policies                         O H  * SUOM  ON  O NA
rI Physical                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
E Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
LGender                            O H OSUOM *N ONA
M Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Retrenchment of PE workers
I Private sector development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
M Lending                                             OHS OS Ou OHU
I Supervision                                         O HS * S   OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS O S O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                         O HS OS   O u   Q HU
E  Government implementation performance              O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
M Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. List of Studies included in Project
2. ICR Mission Aide Memoire
3. Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Borrower
4. Lesotho Privatization Unit Quarterly Progress Reports and Annual Reports
5. Report on National Dialogue on Privatization and Restructuring of Lesotho Economy - September 1999
6. Lesotho Privatization and Private Sector Development Project - Final Report: Privatization Advisory
Services
Contract                                                            1995-200
7. Minutes of ICR review meeting
- 33 -






270                                           280                                           290                                           30
This map was produced by the
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominafions             S0UTH            AFRICA
and anyother information shownon this                     Bethlehem
map do not imply, on the port of The                       etehem
World Bank Group, any judgment on
the legalstotus of any territory, or any    TO                                                                                       LESO            TH O
endorsement or acceptance of such             S         %       < h                           i
boundaries.
Pretoria                        r  1 't29
-290                                                                                                                                                                             290-
2---=-~ MAJOR RIVERS
ROADS
>t~rt  Tey   "5   Moletsane  '         g                 >bnJG   MokhotIon\               o    SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
Bloem fontein       A                                                                                    1                NATIONAL CAPITAL
o      -- -& -x INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
> an t'~~~~~ -t > t_> _ _Tseka -- X } ~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                          25         50 KILOMvETERS
/ ' - .<sD,fH Q w , . . . . ,,_. [O O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 25                                                                        50 MILES
BloemfonteiG
( 3ns $ yf t- .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~Sehlabathebe ({
300                                                                                                                                                                               0
..-, - Aliwal Not               ales Hoekf q,_,
SO .<,< 50UTH  AFRICA                            d k LTH
R31                                                           ________________   __________________ _f   INDIAN   31  w
31 2.0                                                                                     3- Q            OCEAN
o            .27, 



