Report No. PIC817
Project Name   Lesotho-Privatization and Private Sector Development...
Assistance Project
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Privatization
Project ID                LSPA1401
Country and Borrower      Kingdom of Lesotho
Probable Cost             US$11.4 million
Proposed IDA Financing    US$10.0 million
Financing Plan            IDA - US$10.0 million and Government -
US$1.4 million
Appraisal Date            June 1993
Board Date                March 1994
1.   Background.  Lesotho's economy remains deeply vulnerable to a 35
percent unemployment rate which is increasing as employment
opportunities in South Africa are declining. This situation is making
more urgent the need to diversify the economy, increase rural and
urban employment opportunities in both the formal and informal sector
and use scarce budgetary resources to achieve these ends. In its
ongoing structural adjustment effort, Lesotho has put in place new
investment promotion facilities, increased access by indigenous
businesses to project and equity finance, and has undertaken
substantial steps to improve the regulatory environment for the
private sector. As a next step, the government indicates its
commitment to rationalize its public sector. The parastatal sector
consist of about 20 companies and financial institutions in which the
Government of Lesotho directly owns majority shares. The Government
indirectly owns another 18 companies through LNDC. Some sectors are
dominated by state owned enterprises which were initially established
to ensure domestic ownership of "strategic" industries and services in
the absence of an indigenous private sector which in the past was
assumed to be absent. Some of these enterprises today represent a
drain on the government budget; they divert resources from more
efficient uses; in some cases they crowd out the private sector. In
agro-industries and transportation, for example, where small
indigenous enterprises tend to thrive in other countries, publicly
owned companies predominate. A subset of "strategic" investments made
by the Lesotho National Development Corporation continue to make
losses and to drain energy and resources from LNDC's developmental
role. In the meantime, LNDC is seen as the "indigenous investor" of
last resort to the exclusion of potential private indigenous
investors, whose role deserves greater encouragement as a high
potential future source of self-employment and investment.
2.   Project Objectives.   The objectives of the proposed project would
be to ensure sustained private sector led economic growth with
Government focusing on the provision of social services and a positive



enabling environment. To achieve these objectives the Government
would a) encourage expansion of the role of the private sector in the
economy through its privatization program; b) enhance the competitive
environment for private sector operations; c) encourage private
investment in sectors which require technology transfer and heavy
capital infusion; d) develop capital market instruments to support the
parastatal reform and privatization effort; and e) in general improve
the efficiency and productivity of enterprises currently in the
parastatal sector. In achieving these objectives, the government
would give important focus to a) reducing the parastatal sector's
budgetary drain; b) increasing company ownership and overall business
activity particularly by indigenous investors; and d) mobilizing
indigenous investment capital for the purchase of companies being
privatized.
3.   Project Description.   The proposed project would be predominantly
a technical assistance project to support the Government's
privatization effort.
Under the Privatization component the following assistance will
be offered (a) a five-year program of short-term assistance from a
privatization specialist, a corporate finance specialist, a valuation
specialist, and a lawyer who will carry out specific tasks related to
the privatization. These tasks will include, among others, development
of procedural guidelines for various aspects of privatization (such as
valuation, advertising, criteria for evaluation/selection,
negotiations); (b) short-term, specialized, transactions-oriented
technical assistance and investment banker services to help the
privatization committee prepare companies or government services for
sale or privatization by displacement; (c) advisory assistance to
develop and assist with the implementation of a public
awareness/investor education effort to include development of printed
and broadcast media, seminars, and other fora to educate the public
about the government's privatization and private sector development
program; and (d) office equipment to support the Privatization Unit.
Under Private Sector Development the following efforts will be
undertaken: (a) strengthening the legal framework for the private
sector through the development of a long-term strategy and action
plan, especially to ensure fair and rapid enforcement of contracted
obligations; (b) studies to develop action plans in areas where
reforms are required to support private sector development. These
include (i) designing a future role for LNDC as a catalyst for private
investment, (ii) taking steps to address issues related to Lesotho's
labor market with a view to implementing changes in how wage rates are
set, improving productivity, and improving strained labor relations to
encourage a greater use of the country's excess labor, (iii)
reorienting the role of the Ministry of Trade and Industry to make it
more supportive of the private sector, (iv) reviewing and revising the
structure of utility tariff rates to make it consistent with the
country's strategy for attracting investments in labor-intensive,
export-oriented industries; (c) efforts to strengthen the following:
(i) the Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of Land, Surveys, and
Physical Planning (to implement measures that ensure a more efficient
allocation of urban and industrial land), (ii) the Lesotho Investment
- 2 -



Promotion Center (to promote foreign investment), (iii) the Business
Advisory and Promotion Services (to support indigenous investors), and
(iv) the Lesotho Chamber of Commerce (to enhance its ability to act as
a voice for the private sector and to communicate more effectively
with the government during the privatization effort).
Under Capital Market Development technical assistance will be
provided to undertake the following (a) develop regulatory capability
related to new capital market investments, such as using indigenous
savings groups as investor groups and devising employee stock
ownership plans; (b) prepare a prospectus for the Lesotho Investment
Holdings (LIH) unit trust, the Lesotho Bank unit trust, or both; (c)
assist with the valuation of certain LNDC subsidiary companies to be
sold through LIH or another unit trust; and (d) assist with the
marketing of unit trust shares to the private sector including close
liaison with the public awareness/investor education effort.
Training. Training will be offered to improve technical skills
for the following efforts (a) implementing privatization at the level
of the privatization committee and commercializing some enterprises
not being privatized; (b) improving the entrepreneurial and management
capacity of displaced workers, indigenous businessmen, and local
entrepreneurs who displace public service agencies that are
privatized; and (c) handling legal matters identified in the study of
the commercial law reform strategy.
Implementation Fund. US$3.8 million, including contingencies,
will be available to finance investments that are identified by the
study of the legal reform strategy or other studies of private sector
development carried out under the project. The line of credit provided
under the Industrial and Agro-industries Development Project will be
available to finance new investments and restructuring requirements of
privatized companies.
4.   Environmental Aspects.   The project is a technical assistance and
capacity building effort with no environmental implications.
Environment assessment Category C.
5.   Project Implementation.   The principal secretary of the Ministry
of Finance will be responsible for all aspects of project
implementation. A newly established Privatization Unit will be
responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the privatization
program. The Ministry of Justice (Attorney General's Office) will be
responsible for overseeing the drafting of the Privatization Law and
for managing the legal framework study. The respective principal
secretaries of the Ministry of the Home Affairs, the Ministry of
Employment, the Ministry of Trade and Industry, and LNDC will be
responsible for implementing actions to be agreed following the
studies on land, the labor market, the role of LNDC, and the role of
the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The principal secretary of the
Ministry of Finance will collaborate with the Central Bank on
developing the capital market and with the Ministry of Education on
devising the entrepreneurship training component. An implementation
fund committee headed by the principal secretary of the Ministry of
Finance and composed of the principal secretary Ministry of Planning,
- 3 -



the head of the Department of Works, the Attorney General, and the
managing directors of relevant utilities would agree with IDA on
activities to be financed by the implementation fund. Written
agreement on proposed investments would be a condition of
disbursements.
6.   Costs and Financing.   Project costs are estimated at US$11.4
million, of which the Association would finance about US$10.0 million.
Contact Point        Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
-4-



