Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2612 LSO
                       Development Credit Agreement
               (Privatization and Private Sector Development
                            Assistance Project)
                                  between
                          THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated February 1, 1995
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2612 LSO
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1995, between THE KINGDOM OF
LESOTHO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the
Borrower regarding the Borrower's privatization policy dated
April 15, 1994 (hereinafter referred to as the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
    (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Implementation Fund" means the part of the Credit from
which the implementation of certain actions, proposed as a
result of the studies to be carried out under Part B.1 of the
Project, may be financed, in accordance with Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   "Implementation Fund Committee" means the committee
referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
that shall decide on the allocation of funds from the
Implementation Fund in accordance with said Schedule;
    (c)   "Law Reform Commission" means the commission
established by the Law Reform Commission Act No.5 of 1993, that
is to review the laws of Lesotho with a view to systematic
development and reform of the law;
    (d)   "LNDC" means the Lesotho National Development
Corporation, established by Order No.13 of 1990;
    (e)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
    (f)   "MOHA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Home Affairs;
    (g)   "MTI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Trade and
Industry;
    (h)   "Parastatal Organization" means any body corporate the
equity capital of which is at least fifty percent directly or
indirectly owned by the Borrower and units of the Borrower's
ministries which operate revenue generating and self-accounting
business activities;
    (i)   "Privatization" means the sale of assets of, equity
capital in, or the transfer of management control over a
Parastatal Organization to the private sector including the
sale of a business as a going concern, the leasing of a
business or specific assests with or without an option to
purchase, the transformation of a Parastatal Organisation into
a limited company or a combination of two or more of these
methods;
    (j)   "Privatization Law" means the law referred to in
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
    (k)   "Privatization Unit" means the unit referred to in
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
    (l)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 4, 1994 and
March 30, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association; and
    (m)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
Page  3
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,900,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
Borrower's Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1
commencing July 1, 2004 and ending January 1, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January
1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
Page  4
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate privatization, financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, not later than 12 months after the
Effective Date, submit to the Association an analysis of the
restrictions imposed by law on the conduct of business
activities by women in Lesotho and adopt a time-bound action
plan, acceptable to the Association, to alleviate those
restrictions. Upon adoption of said action plan, the Borrower
shall take all necessary action required for the implementation
of said action plan in accordance with its terms.
    Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall establish and maintain, at least
Page  5
until the completion of the Project, a private sector advisory
group composed of senior-level government officials, the head
of the Privatization Unit and key members of the private
sector. The Borrower shall consult with the private sector
advisory group at least twice yearly on the implementation of
the Program and related private sector development issues.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than nine months after
                the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                information concerning said records,
                accounts and the audit thereof as the
                Association shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                Association has received the audit report for the
                fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
Page  6
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   The Privatization Law or any part thereof, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the implementation of the
Project;
    (b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Privatization Unit or for the
suspension of its operations; and
    (c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
makes it improbable that the Program, or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, any event specified in paragraph (a) through (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   the Borrower shall have enacted a law establishing a
legal and institutional framework for Privatization (the
Privatization Law) satisfactory to the Association;
    (b)   the Borrower has appointed the head and the staff of
the Privatization Unit, whose qualifications are satisfactory
to the Association; and
    (c)   the Borrower shall have appointed a Project accountant,
whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the
Association, and who shall be charged with maintaining the
Project's records and accounts.
    Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Principal Secretary
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 395
          Maseru 100
          Lesotho
                                         Telex:
                                           4367 LO
Page  7
                                           4429 LO
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                       By /s/ Eunice Bulane
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Stephen M. Denning
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated         % of
                               (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                      SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                 4,810,000        100%
    services, studies
    and training
(2) Equipment                      220,000        100%
    and vehicles
(3) Implementation Fund:                          85%
    (a) civil works              1,800,000
    (b) consultants'                70,000
        services
Page  8
    (c) equipment                   70,000
        and vehicles
    (d) operating costs             70,000
(4) Strengthening of                              85%
    the Ministry of
    Home Affairs:
    (a) consultants'                70,000
        services
    (b) equipment                   35,000
        and vehicles
    (c) operating costs             35,000
(5) Refunding of                    290,000        Amounts due
    Project                                        pursuant to
    Preparation                                    Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                        of this
                                                   Agreement
(6) Unallocated                     430,000
                                  _________
        TOTAL                      7,900,000
                                   =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating
costs" means incremental recurrent costs incurred for Project
implementation, such as vehicle operation and maintenance,
equipment maintenance and repairs, and administrative
expenditure but excluding salaries.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
    (b)   category three (3), unless the withdrawal is made to
finance an activity proposed to be financed out of the
Implementation Fund by the Implementation Fund Committee and
agreed to by the Association in accordance with Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   category four (4), prior to the submission by the
Borrower to the Association of (i) an expenditure plan for the
strengthing of the MOHA acceptable to the Association; and (ii)
evidence, acceptable to the Association, that a lease for a
tract of land, zoned for private sector development, has been
issued in accordance with the Borrower's Land Act 1979 (as
amended), in the name of MTI for the purpose of issuing sub-
leases to private entrepreneurs.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services
not exceeding $35,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to ensure sustained
economic growth in which the private sector takes the lead and
the government focuses on the provision of an enabling
environment.
Page  9
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Privatization
    Support to the preparation and implementation of the
Borrower's Privatization program, including the development of
a legal and institutional framework for privatization and
advice, inter alia, on valuation, marketing, selection of
privatization methods, transactions and public awareness.
Part B:   Private Sector Development
1.  The carrying out of studies, the development of action plans
and the implementation of selected actions, in areas that must
be reformed to support private sector development, including:
    (a)   the legal framework for the private sector;
    (b)   the role for LNDC as a catalyst for private investment;
    (c)   the labor market; and
    (d)   the utility rate structures.
2.  Strengthening of key institutions that support the private
sector, including MOH, the Investment Promotion Center in LNDC,
the Business Advisory and Promotion Service in MTI, the Lesotho
Chamber of Commerce & Industry, and the Law Reform Commission.
Part C:   Capital Market Development
    Support to the development of capital market instruments
like indigenous savings groups and unit trusts, including the
development of a legal and administrative framework to support
these instruments.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of works in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
Page  10
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Equipment and vehicles may be procured up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $300,000 through: (a) the Inter-Agency
Procurement Service Office of the United Nations Development
Programme in accordance with the said Office's own procedures,
or (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $35,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
Page  11
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $35,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $35,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment
of consulting firms raising the contract value to $35,000
equivalent or above, of (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $35,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
I.  Project Implementation, Monitoring and Review
1.  MOF shall carry overall responsibility for the
implementation of the Project and shall appoint, and maintain
throughout the implementation of the Project, a full-time
project Coordinator (the Project Coordinator). Day-to-day
implementation of Parts A (Privatization) and B.1 (Studies) of
the Project shall be entrusted to the Privatization Unit and
designated representatives (at the principal secretary level)
of the relevant line ministries respectively. The Project
Coordinator shall, inter alia, be responsible for disbursement
and procurement matters and consultant related activities and
shall liaise on these subjects with the Privatization Unit and
the aforementioned designated representatives.
2.  MOF shall be responsible for monitoring the implementation
of the Project. At the end of each quarter of the calendar
year, MOF shall submit to the Association a progress report on
the implementation of the Project in a format approved by the
Association.
3.  (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-
term review of the Project towards the end of the second year
following the Effective Date, or at any other time as agreed
between the Borrower and the Association. At least sixty days
prior to such review the Borrower shall prepare and submit to
the Association all necessary documentation for the evaluation
of the Project. The terms of reference of this review shall be
acceptable to the Association and shall include an assessment
of inter alia: (i) progress made in achieving key Project
objectives; (ii) the need to adjust Project design in the light
of the implementation experience; (iii) the performance of the
Privatization Unit; (iv) the performance of the technical
assistance; (v) the Implementation Fund arrangements; and (vi)
the functioning of the Law Reform Commission.
    In addition, as part of the review, the Borrower shall
prepare a program of action, satisfactory to the Association,
to deal with deficiencies in Project implementation identified
during the review.
    (b)   Promptly after the review mentioned in paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall take, or shall cause to be taken, all
necessary action required for the implementation of the program
of action referred to in paragraph (a) above.
II.       Part A of the Project: Privatization
4.  For the purpose of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish, and maintain during the implementation of the
Project, a Privatization Unit with membership (including a
head), staff, terms of reference and decision making authority
acceptable to the Association.
5.  For the purpose of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
Page  12
(i) submit to the Association, each year not later than
February 1st, an annual privatization plan for the subsequent
period of 12 months commencing April 1st, and acceptable to the
Association. Each plan shall target at least four Parastatal
Organizations and shall include a detailed, tentative time-
table with monitorable actions for their privatization or
restructuring (including commerciali- zation) during the period
covered by such plan; and (ii) complete all steps within its
control to implement the said privatization or restructuring
(including commercialization) plan in accordance with its
terms.
6.  For the purpose of Part A of the Project, the Borrower
agrees to:
    (a)   consult with the Association prior to creating any new
Parastatal Organization;
    (b)   as of April 1, 1997, cease all operating subsidies or
other financial support to cover operating expenses of
Parastatal Organizations; and
    (c)   allocate or cause to be allocated, all proceeds
resulting from the implementation of the Privatization program
to investments supportive of the Privatization process and
private sector development in general.
III.      Part B.1 of the Project: Private Sector Development
Studies
7.  The Borrower shall undertake the studies in accordance with
an implementation timetable acceptable to the Association. The
focus of each of the studies shall be the following:
    (a)   Legal framework study: A review of the institutions and
activities of the legal sector in Lesotho with a view to
developing a legal framework that meets the needs of the
private sector. The study shall review in particular, legal
education, dispute settle- ment mechanisms, the private legal
profession, the Attorney-General's office and access to legal
information. The study shall be carried out under the tutelage
of the Law Reform Commission.
    (b)   Labor market study: (i) a review of labor issues
affecting productivity; (ii) a review of the need to improve
the acquisition of skills; and (iii) a review of labor
relations issues, especially between local labor and foreign
investors.
    (c)   Utility rates study: a review of the issues causing
tariff structures for industry to be less than optimal in light
of the Borrower's efforts to promote investment.
8.  The Borrower shall submit detailed reports of each study to
be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project to the Association
at the latest as part of the documentation to be submitted to
the Association in the context of the mid-term review in
accordance with paragraph 3 of Part I of this Schedule 4.
9.  Each report referred to in the preceding paragraph shall
include a detailed action plan containing activities to be
taken in support of private sector development and to be
financed out of the Implementation Fund. Only those activities
that are likely to have positive impact on private sector
development in the area concerned shall be included in the
action plans.
10.       An Implementation Fund Committee composed of the
Principal Secretary of Finance (chair), the Principal Secretary
of Planning, the Borrower's Attorney-General, the head of the
Privatization Unit and two representatives of the private
sector designated by MOF and acceptable to the Association,
Page  13
shall in agreement with the Association, decide which of the
activities proposed for the various areas of reform shall be
financed from the Implementation Fund. Those activities shall
be specified in an Implementation Fund activities plan that
shall be reviewed and updated as required by the Implementation
Fund Committee. Any changes to the Implementation Fund
activities plan are subject to the Association's approval.
IV.       Part B.2 of the Project: Institutional Strengthening
11.       The Borrower shall maintain the Law Reform Commission
at least until the completion of the Project and shall, not
later than February 1st of each year, submit to the Association
for its review and comments: (i) an annual work-program for the
Law Reform Commission for the subsequent period of 12 months
commencing April 1st, the main focus of which shall be on the
strengthening of the laws applicable to private business
activity; and (ii) a report on the activities of the Law Reform
Commission during the previous year.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $350,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Page  14
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
Page  15
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
