Report No. PID8581
Project Name                     Latvia-Programmatic Structural Adjustment...
Loan (PSAL)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Public Sector Management/Privatization
Project ID                       LVPE66153
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Latvia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
1 Smislu, LV 1919 Riga
Tel:    371-7095680
Fax:    371-7095693
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           November 11, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        November 11, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         November 29, 1999
Projected Board Date             March 7, 2000
1.      Country and Sector Background.   Latvia's transition to a market economy
is almost complete. Price liberalization took place at the outset of
transition in 1992 and privatization of small and medium term enterprises,
although started only in 1994, was basically completed by mid 1998. Latvia
now faces the difficult last stages of transition where the Government's own
efficiency and effectiveness have become the main impediment to completing
the path to a market economy and sustained economic growth. The former is
best evidenced by the difficulties of privatizing the remaining (three) large
enterprises and the latter by the system of public administration that exists
in Latvia, which created conditions for corruption to flourish and by a
government that allowed the creation en mass of quasi-autonomous agencies
with inadequate provisions for assuring accountability and transparency with
respect to resources used and services provided
2.      The government has requested a Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
(PSAL) program for improving the credibility, efficiency and effectiveness of
the public sector to improve service delivery, support the return to robust
private sector led growth, make the economy less vulnerable to external
shocks and prepare for EU accession. Improving public sector management and
reducing corruption are critical requirements for EU accession.
3.      The Country's Adjustment Program builds on the macroeconomic and
structural reforms made till this date. The ultimate objective of Latvia's
reform program (and of the proposed PSAL that will support it) is to put the
economy back on a path of rapid and sustainable growth while maintaining a
sustainable external position, as to improve the well being of all its
citizens. Reaching that path requires (i) returning to the conservative
fiscal stance of before the Russian crisis and (ii) improving the functioning
of the public sector through a comprehensive reform package that enhances its
efficiency and effectiveness. This reform package focuses on (i)



strengthening the credibility of public sector institutions, (ii) increasing
the capacity of the state to efficiently manage its human and financial
resources, and (iii) rationalizing the boundary and interrelationships
between the public and private sector.
4.      The challenge facing the Government for the immediate future is to
reform the state institutions such as to come to an accountable and
transparent state that has the capacity to govern efficiently and effectively
and therefore will facilitate EU accession. The Russian crisis brought back
more forcefully into focus the inherent problems in Latvia's public
expenditure management system as well as the need to finalize the
privatization process and in parallel to define the role of the state as a
regulator of productive assets instead of as an owner.
5.      The proposed Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL) operation
would support the government in four overlapping areas:
6.      Strengthening the Credibility of the Public Sector.    The PSAL will
support the Government's efforts to further reduce the risks and
opportunities for corruption in Government and the Judiciary by supporting
the challenging and politically difficult task of implementing the country's
corruption prevention program. This requires building an understanding and
acceptance of the proposed reforms at all levels of the bureaucracy. The
program among others would support a strong role by the Corruption Prevention
Council in this process. It would help the Government with the
implementation of the Law on Prevention of Corruption and to develop
instruments to measure vulnerability of its institutions to corruption.
7.      The program will also support the strengthening of transparency and
accountability of ministries and subordinated and supervised bodies through
advice with respect to rationalizing the functions of government ministries.
This process is currently being under taken by the bureau of administrative
reform in Latvia with support of the World Bank and is an important first
step toward streamlining the Government. The PSAL program will work with the
government to implement the outcomes of the functional reviews of the
ministries and will help with the identification of organizational structures
that provide the proper incentives for the execution of ministerial
functions. In addition, the program will help develop further the legal
capacity for resolution of administrative disputes and help improve the
oversight of public sector performance by civil society.
8.      Another issue addressed under this umbrella is the proliferation of
public sector agencies. Recent years have seen a rapid growth of agencies
(there are at least 150) as an organizational form, whereby selected
governmental functions entrusted to a Ministry are delegated to agencies
under its jurisdiction. In Latvia, there are three kinds of governmental
agencies: (i) subordinate, (ii) supervised and (iii) under ministerial
management. They carry out a range of tasks including service delivery,
regulatory monitoring, and asset management. Agency formation does not
appear to be related to an objective assessment of the suitability of
different types of activity for management or delivery of services. Rather
it appears to be motivated by incentives to escape centralized standards and
controls. The only legal framework for agencies is the private sector joint
stock company legislation, together with the addition of supplementary
regulations and the creation of a management layer, sometimes including
-2 -



Government proxies, between the Ministry and the agency. The current
legislative framework is weak in specifying procedures for creating agencies,
their financial and managerial accountability, standards for recruitment,
promotion and pay; procurement practice; measures of performance and
performance evaluation, and their treatment of fees and other revenues. The
result has been ad hoc creation of governmental agencies with inadequate
regulation and insufficient budgetary control, as they do not have to keep
their accounts at the Treasury, resulting in both policy and fiscal risks.
The current legal structure under, which the agencies operate, is not
appropriate for a public sector institutions responsible for implementing
public policy and able to raise their own revenues. It presents clear
opportunities for corruption because of the opportunity for rent seeking, for
interpreting with discretion its own charter and for loose accountability
procedures. It also creates great problems for budget and expenditure
management.
9.      Strengthening the Public Sector Institutional Capacity.    Under this
component the World Bank will work with the Government of Latvia on improving
the incentives for recruitment and retention of high quality staff and with
the rationalization of its public expenditure management system. As integral
part of the Government's reform strategy the PSAL program will support the
introduction of a unified and transparent structure of pay and incentives
that will reward skills appropriately and enable people to be recruited and
retained in public service as well as supports the need to strengthen public
expenditure management to eliminate the budget deficit, reduce the size of
the public sector and increase public investment
10.     Continuing Pension Reform while ensuring financial sustainability of
the pension system. This part of the program aims at supporting the
Government in its efforts to finalize its pension reform agenda and assisting
with its efforts to (re-)ensure the financial sustainability of the pension
system. As such this component will support the need to take two key actions.
First, the program will support the Government in its efforts to pass an
acceptable second tier law. Second, there is a need to come to an agreement
on how and when to amend some of the recent measures that have been taken in
the second half of 1999, which impacted the financial sustainability of the
pension system.
11.     Rationalizing the interactions between the public and private sector.
Latvia's privatization program has been stalled for some time, mostly because
of unclear sector policies, sector legislation, lack of a consistent and
stable regulatory framework and last but not least political commitment to
move forward with divesting state interests in the remaining large
enterprises. It is important to resume this process and the PSAL program will
support the privatization process and the formulation of the regulatory
framework in such a way as to (i) promote open competitive markets,
industrial restructuring and growth; (ii) bring in new management
competence, technical and marketing skills and access to international
capital markets; (iii) reassure the international financial community that
Latvia is committed to privatization and open markets; and (iv) realize
substantial cash revenues for the state budget at a time of increasing budget
deficits.
12.     Latvia has decided to establish a consolidated supervisory agency for
all financial supervision by merging the existing supervisory entities. The
- 3 -



law establishing this new agency is in an advanced stage of preparation. The
PSAL will support Latvia with establishing this agency while at the same time
strengthening the capacity for supervision, particularly of non-bank
financial institutions, which represent the weak link in the current set-up
for financial regulation, and supervision.
13.     Latvia's business regulatory system contains many of the formal
mechanisms that are essential for building an effective and transparent
regulatory environment. The PSAL program will support the strengthening of
the regulatory system in four ways. First, it will commit the Government to
providing regulatory drafters with training and information on how to predict
the budgetary, economic, and social impact of proposed regulations. Second,
it will commit the Government to developing inspection standards, which then
will be piloted in two inspectorates. This work will build on a review of
inspectorates conducted by BPAR in 1998. Third, it will require the
Government to establish clear and simple annual reporting requirements for
all regulatory bodies, to pilot these requirements in ten regulatory bodies,
and to plan to bring all regulatory bodies into conformity with these
requirements. Finally, it will commit the Government to resolving problems
of regulatory coordination in one especially difficult, but important area,
construction permits.
14.     Objective. The main objective of the Loan would be to help the economy
to return to sustained and rapid growth and improved welfare of its citizens
through reforms that enhance government efficiency and effectiveness.
Governance and institutional reform is the backbone of the reform program
supported by the Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan. The reforms build
for a large part on work started under the first SAL and which after
completion of the first SAL continued to be supported through the Bank's work
such as IDFs on Public Sector Reform and infra-structural regulation and its
comprehensive anti-corruption agenda. The loan would assist the Government
in establishing more efficient institutional arrangements for making
strategic policy decision and in establishing accountability for their
implementation.
15.     Financing and Implementation.   The PSAL is in the process of design and
discussions with the Government. At present a loan of about $40 million is
envisaged. The loan would be made at the standard World Bank rate over a
period of 13 years, including four or five years grace. The loan would be
made to the Republic of Latvia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as
the Borrower. The loan would be released in two equal tranches following
board approval and on fulfillment of the specific second tranche release
conditions.
16.     Following the identification mission of the PSAL, a counterpart team
had been formed, which is chaired/coordinated by the Ministry for Special
Assignments for co-operation with international agencies, and includes
representatives from various Ministries. This team has been active in the
dialogue with the Bank and is expected to continue to help in the
implementation of agreed policy measures to be supported by the PSAL.
17.     Poverty Category. The proposed PSAL will have an important effect on
poverty, since it will support growth objectives in a stable environment as
well as measures to improve service delivery of government and to reform the
pension system. By contributing to low levels of inflation the PSAL program
- 4 -



will prevent further erosion in the real living standards of the poor. The
objectives of improving public administration and management of resources
will make possible improvements in the cost effectiveness of those Government
social programs that are especially important for the poor.
18.     Environmental Aspects.   The loan would have no direct impact on the
environment (in line with the World Bank operational directive 4.01) and has
been placed in category C that does not require an environmental assessment.
19.     Benefits and Risks.   Benefits.  The actions under the PSAL will aid
fiscal adjustment and will ensure the sustainability of the reform process by
strengthening the institutional infrastructure needed to improve the public
sector's capacity to carry out its role effectively and efficiently. At the
same time the SAL's actions will also encourage private sector development by
finalizing the privatization process and defining a clear and transparent
regulatory framework. By reducing the public sector corruption and
streamlining business regulation which are essential not only for an
efficient and effective government but also for an efficient working market
economy and will significantly facilitate the prospects to enter the EU
within a reasonable time period. An efficient working market economy can
allocate investments to those sectors that will bring the largest return to
the country in the form of sustained and high growth. The PSAL measures
would also provide a positive signal to international institutions and
investors regarding the Government's commitment to reform and the transition
towards a full fledge market economy.
20.     Risks.   Institutional and governance reform is inherently risky.   Any
number of contingencies could divert attention from, and could thereby
sidetrack or even derail, the process of building the institutional
infrastructure necessary for improved public sector performance. Such risks
are heightened by the limited time that on average a Government is able to
stay in office. The other important risk would be failure to maintain
macroeconomic stability, which would decrease the confidence in the current
exchange rate arrangements and would result in capital flight and a possible
return of high inflation and interest rates. Lack of political commitment
could delay fiscal adjustment and the implementation of structural reforms
and could also impede the reform process of the pension system, which in turn
would severely undermine fiscal sustainability. Poor coordination among the
ministries involved is a further risk that could adversely affect the
program's implementation.
21.     To reduce these risks, the IBRD will continue to assist the Government
in mobilizing the technical assistance necessary to adopt and implement the
reforms and would also deepen the ongoing dialogue with the Government on
structural reform and would work closely with the other donors (and the NGOs)
to provide this technical assistance. Moreover, the SAL disbursements are
strictly tied to the adoption of policy conditions. The inter-ministerial
work group under the coordination of the Ministry of Finance, which helped in
the preparation of the PSAL, is expected to continue its work during the
implementation phase of the Loan and to improve coordination among the
implementing agencies. Subsequent Bank group operations would seek to
sustain and deepen the reforms initiated under this operation.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
- 5 -



The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Jos Verbeek, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-3935
Fax:        (202) 522-2753
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 7, 2000.
- 6 -



