Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22457
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-261 17; FSLT-70070)
ON A
LOAN
N THE AMOUNT OF US$40.41 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
FOR
PSAL I
06/27/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of June 27, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lat
US$ 1.00 = LT 0.63
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATJ          Anticorruption Unit
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPS          Corruption Prevention Council
El]          European Union
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IBRD         intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDF          Institutional Development Fund
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LPA          Latvian Privatization Agency
MoAg         Ministry of Agriculture
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MoJ          Ministry of Justice
PAC          Public Accounts Committee
PAYGO        Pay as you go
PFM          Public Expenditure Management
PER          Public Expenditure Review
PSAL         Programmatic Structural Adjustment Review
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SAO          State Audit Office
SBA          Special Drawing Right
TA           Technical Assistance
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Michael Carter
Sector Manager/Director:   Pradeep Mitra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jos Verbeek



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LATVIA
PSAL I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   12
10. Additional Information                                                            22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Pro ect ID: P066153                                       Project Name: PSAL I
Team Leader: Jos Verbeek                                  TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PSAL I                                         L/C/TFNNumber: TF-26117;
FSLT-70070
Country/Department: LATVIA                                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/11/1999                               Effective: 03/22/2000         03/22/2000
Appraisal:  12/03/1999                                MTR:
Approval:  03/16/2000                               Closing:  12/31/2000         12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              Johannes Linn
Countiy Manager:     Michael Carter                             Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Kyle Peters                                Kyle Peters
Team Leader at ICR:   Jos Verbeek
ICR Primary Author:   Farid Dhanji
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Suistainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Peforniance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Latvia's transition to a market economy was well advanced by the time this operation was
brought to the Board. Price liberalization, privatization of most state owned businesses, and the
building of social safety nets were all accomplished by the mid- to late- nineties. Inflation was, on



average, low and stable, growth was higher than most economies attempting similar transitions,
and the twin deficits manageable - modest external current account deficits were substantially
financed by flows of non-debt creating foreign direct investment. In 1995, progress appeared
threatened by a severe banking crisis that was successfully contained and accompanied by sector
restructuring. (The failure of Banka Baltija to a large extent was related to fraud and its inability
to repay its G24 loans.) In 1998 the collapse of Russia's finances posed a similar threat, in part
because of the disruption of trade flows, and in part because of the considerable Latvian bank
holdings of Russian paper. In 1998 and 1999 the fiscal and current account deficits thus
deteriorated sharply and growth slowed. The Latvian Government sought a Stand-By
Arrangement with the IMF and complementary financing supporting structural reforms from the
IBRD. PSAL I was then conceived as the first of three operations that would, incrementally and
successively, support core structural reforms.
The overall objective of this operation was to improve governance - by strengthening public
accountability, improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public sector operations, and sharply
raising the transparency of the Latvian State's interactions with the private sector including civil
society. The President's Report distinguishes four different components of the operation:
D      nCorrecting macro-imbalances
*     Strengthening the credibility of the public sector
*     Improving the institutional capacity to deliver public services, and
*     Rationalizing a transparent relationship with the private sector
It is also noted that the proposed PSAL's intentions are "to [help] put the economy back on a
path of rapid and sustainable growth and poverty reduction."
Fleshing out the four strategic components were numerous interventions including: (i) institution
building through improving public expenditure management and human resource management; (ii)
streamlining ministries, agencies and agency functions; (iii) continuing a comprehensive
anti-corruption campaign, aimed not only at prevention but also judicial and legal reform; (iv)
changing the scope and role of the public sector through completing five remaining "large"
privatizations and (v) through strengthening supervision and regulation in financial and capital
markets, as well as (vi) developing an adequate market structure and regulatory framework for
the infrastructural sectors. Finally, as growing claims on the pensions system appeared to be one
of the main factors contributing to the re-occurrence of macro-economic imbalances, special
attention (vii) was provided to supporting reforms to the system.
Assessment. The objectives of this project were certainly consistent with government objectives
and supported a well focussed and justified medium-term effort largely to reform public
administration.
Latvia had previously been the recipient of adjustment lending, most recently a SAL, (approval
December, 1996) as well as an Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project (approval
September, 1994). This support coupled with the strong continuous support of the IMF, had led
to an excellent macro-economic performance, as well as considerable first and second-tier
-2 -



structural reforms. The external shock of the Russian crisis dictated, in prudence, the provision of
exceptional financing. The Government, supported by the Bank, appropriately used the occasion
to further deepen the reforms.
The operation was fully compliant with the CAS issued in April 1998. There it was noted that
sustaining macro-economic and financial stability was key to the Bank's efforts in Latvia. Further,
the third (of five) strategic thrusts for the Bank's work in Latvia was identified thus: "help Latvia
reshape the state.'s role, improve public sector management, and reduce corruption." The relevant
section went on to note that this was a priority for the Latvian Government as well as for the EU,
a factor of increasing importance as, during this period, Latvia accelerated and deepened efforts
to meet criteria for joining the Union.
Objectives were, therefore, appropriate, germane and consistent with the Government's wishes
and the agreed upon strategy.
Design
Three points deserve scrutiny. First, Latvia's PSAL was one of the first operations to use the
Bank's programmatic adjustment loan instrument and this merits remark as to reason and
consequence; second, the variety and complexity of areas tackled merit comment as to timing and
realism; and, third, linked to a potential ex-ante concem, is a question concerning Government
and Bank preparedness.
The rationale for using the programmatic adjustment loan instrument (PSAL) is early referenced
in the President's Report where it is noted that: (a) fast-disbursing assistance will meet Latvia's
external financial needs; and (b) support will be provided to a medium-term reform program that"
focuses on step-by step capacity building and institutional reforms" [para 2, page 7]. This is
indeed entirely consistent with the relevant operational guideline which stipulates rapid-disbursing
finance in support of reforms that "involve a continuous flow of incremental policy changes and
institution building." The guideline further posits the reforms typically supported by PSALs are
likely to be found in the public sector and aimed at improving public sector governance,
expenditure management, and the efficiency of public resource allocation. This operation scores
well in this regard. Finally, the Letter of Development Policy of the Governnent clearly
delineates a medium-term strategy, and situates the first actions along a continuum of planned
actions, many of which are expected to occur in the successor second and third operations. To be
sure, early actions are more clearly, completely and numerously identified - but this is standard to
technical and political decision-making in the face of widening uncertainties as time-horizons
extend beyond the immediate. Overall, the judgement must be that the instrument was well
chosen.
Assessment of the remaining two issues are given in the section on "original components" below.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.
3.3 Original Components:
-3 -



The four main components noted earlier are considerably elaborated and multiplied in the PSAL
Matrix as "Issues and Benchmarks" to measure progress. The usual trade-off in writing
conditionality between simply specifying broad-band intention versus indulging in great specificity
of detail is here settled towards detail. The specific mapping of actions/benchmarks from the more
broadly defined area of reform interests is, nonetheless, compelling. Proposed actions are
warranted as defining the content of reform, and justified by appeal to broader reform intent.
Indeed, there appears considerable foresight in this operation, backed by a fairly comprehensive
understanding of the theory and practice of administrative, civil-service and regulatory reform,
and anti-corruption efforts.
In the President's Report, PSAL II is slated for "early 2001." Given the plethora of actions and
activities, requirements for multiple agency implementation and assumption of continuous
concentrated and sustained political focus in PSAL I, the timing of this next operation does in
retrospect appear somewhat ambitious. As is usual, however, there was, no doubt, an element of
normative target-setting involved in establishing the Matrix. Even so, the latest timing for the
second operation is now in the fall of 2001: albeit some of the sub-components have undergone
revision (see below), overall the optimism expressed in the operation appears justifiable, especially
placed in the context of average performance in other adjustment operations.
Preparedness in this operation appears apposite to the realism of and proposed timetables for
adjustment actions. The Bank has had a close and fruitful relationship with the many successive
Latvian Governments and continuity in policy has characterized Latvian management in the last
decade. A specialized and by now well experienced Ministry exists to deal with the IFIs and
coordinates activities across other Ministries and Agencies. In addition, the previous SAL and
complementary work that followed the SAL comprehensively laid the groundwork for this
operation. Post SAL, the Bank supported public sector reform (through an IDF grant), improving
the regulatory framework for financial markets, rationalizing public expenditures and
strengthening the management of public finances (through ESW), and enhancing the regulatory
environment for infrastructure (through an IDF grant). In addition FIAS undertook a review of
regulations affecting investments in Latvia. With support from strategic compact funds the Bank
assisted the Government with the development of a comprehensive anti-corruption agenda. Each
of these components found its way into the PSAL. The Bank team, moreover, assisted the
Government prepare draft implementation plans in the various areas of intervention.
3.4 Revised Components:
N. A.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Region early invited a Quality Enhancement Group to provide advice on the proposed
operation. The most important recommendation was to transform the proposed operation from a
SAL to a PSAL - a recommendation that was accepted. Other recommendations concerned
strengthening of auditing and preparation of a medium- term expenditure framework; concrete
actions to demonstrate the Government's seriousness in dealing with corruption; improvements to
the regulatory framework; establishment of database on public employment; privatization of the
-4 -



shipping company and the power distribution system; implementation of the first tier of the
pension reform; and, improvements to judicial functioning. All of these recommendations were
accepted and incorporated in the PSAL document.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconze/achievenient of objective:
As noted earlier, the objectives of the operation are classified into four broad categories: (i)
returning to a macro-economic framework conducive to robust growth; (b) strengthening the
credibility of the public sector; (iii) strengthening public sector institutional capacity; and, (iv)
rationalizing the interaction between the public and private sectors. Accomplishment under each
of these objectives is considered in turn.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(i) Macro-Economic Management. The operation nominally gives high prominence to
correcting the macro-imbalances that re-emerged after the Russian crisis. In fact, the job was
largely left to the IMF's standby arrangement. Some 15 months after loan disbursement, Latvia's
domestic investment had recovered sharply, as had national savings; growth too recovered to an
estimated 6.6 percent p.a. in 2000 from about 1 percent the year before. The external current
account deficit declined from a little less than 10 percent in 1999 to a still high 7 percent in 2000.
The fiscal deficit at 3.2 percent in 2000, while declining, is still considered high in relation to the
1996-98 period, and in breach of the IMF program. After further discussion, the Government and
the IMF have signed a successor Stand-by agreement, which was approved by the IMF executive
board on April 20, 2001. Overall performance is thus considered satisfactory.
The benchmarks for the pension reform have also been fulfilled. The Latvian Parliament has
passed the legislation to adopt a second pillar, and the relevant Ministries have prepared
implementation as required under the loan. Performance is also here considered satisfactory.
(ii) Strengthening Public Sector Credibility.
ii.i Anti-Corruption Advance in this sub-component has been halting and slow. The government
has not fulfilled its agreement to establish a strong mechanism to monitor and report on
corruption in the public sector. The Anti-Corruption Unit, after much delay, has developed a set
of procedures to identify conflicts of interest. Part of the delay appears to be due to a shift in
perspective in late November 2000, when a new diagnosis indicated that "state capture" was a
more serious form of government corruption than the usual bribe-taking, selling of office and
favors and the like. In addition, the politicians advanced the view that the manner of financing of
political parties was seriously corrupt and required more immediate attention. As a result PSAL II
is now focussing more intently on these anti-corruption issues, while revising the sub-component
to assure a better fit with the latest research, political understanding, and need also for
administrative rationalization of the effort.
ii.ii. The Judicial reform components requiring greater transparency in the communications
- 5 -



between judges and litigants, random assignment of judges to cases and educating judges as to
new laws, have all been initiated, but each task has proved more complicated in implementation
than in conception. The Government has not acted quickly to electronically publish all judicial
decisions. This is partly due to the fact that not all court buildings are wired for the higher volume
of electronic traffic. The limitation is being addressed in continuing discussions and the
sub-component is proceeding well to the next PSAL II phase.
ii.iii The operation contained agreements to improve the legislative framework under which the
public sector operates including adopting an Administrative Framework Law and a Law on Public
Sector Agencies. The Law on Public Sector agencies has been adopted by parliament while the
Administrative Framework Law is being integrated with a proposed Law on Executive Powers.
This proposed Law combines the Administrative Framework Law with the existing Law on
Cabinet of Ministers and a proposed Law on Public Entities. The principles of the Administrative
Framework Law are to be kept intact while merged into the new law, which is currently being
debated in Parliament.
(iii) Strengthening the Public Sector's Institutional Capacity
iii.i The Government agreed to prepare a program and an action plan to implement public
administration reform. A blueprint for reform was prepared, thus partially fulfilling the condition,
but unhappily did not contain any details or timetables on actions. As a result the required
reporting to the Cabinet of changes in public sector management and performance has never
happened. These conditions are being moved to PSAL II.
iii.ii To deal with the problem that the functions and structures of Latvia's Ministries are
appropriate neither to a market economy nor to operating in the EU, the PSAL required a close
monitoring of the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture as well preparing the ground for
full functional reviews of the Ministries of Economy and Justice. This was formally accomplished.
iii.iii In the meantime, however, preliminary conclusion of work done for a Public Expenditure
Review suggested that PSAL conditionality should be reformulated. In particular, it was noted
that there was no central place for strategy and policy formulation inside the government;
moreover, many agencies have overlapping and competing mandates; and, in addition, reform
efforts aimed at functional streamlining need to be integrated with public expenditure reforms and
policy formulation.
This analysis is now being incorporated in PSAL II. The Government has already granted higher
levels of responsibility and authority to the Chancellery in the areas of policy coordination and
achieving strategic focus. The PSAL is now focussing on linking strategic and policy
commitments to the priorities and budget allocations of Ministries. A number of pilots are
proposed. Functional reviews are also being redesigned to merge in part with sector-oriented
public expenditure reviews, and add also a policy evaluation component. The expected outcome
of these new-style reviews is to identify functions and tasks that contribute to Government
priorities, ensure funding, and provide monitoring and evaluation mechanisms.
- 6 -



The development of these reforms speaks well of the inherent flexibility of the PSAL instrument.
Clearly, the world changes, and indicative conditions initially expressed for later components of
the multi-year program have had to accommodate new knowledge, new understanding, and new
political and economic factors. The team has responded well to this challenge.
iii.iv PSAL I stipulated the adoption in principle by the Cabinet of the concept of a broad-banded
and uniform pay-scale in the public sector. This was accomplished. In addition, a Law on the Civil
Service was adopted by Parliament. Together these provide the basis for continued progress in
civil service reform. The agreements for PSAL II now focus on implementation and aims to
ensure that the Civil Service law and the pay reform regulations are mutually consistent and
reinforcing.
iii.v A number of stipulations in PSAL I pertained to improvement of public expenditure
management. These included (a) improving the Law on Budget and Financial Management to
bring the accounts of all entities financed by the budget into the Budget, and requiring state
institutions to submit annual audited reports; (b) establishing a central register for the institutions
under the management of Ministries; (c) the Legislature's role in improving financial transparency
and accountability was to be enhanced by establishing a Public Account's Committee; (d) the
State Audit Office was required to prepare a Plan to strengthen its performance, as well as submit
a program of audits; audited accounts of a number of budget financed institutions were to be
completed and the results provided to the Cabinet; (e) a number of Ministries are enjoined to
adopt strategic audit pals for the next three years; (f) tentative steps towards establishing
performance oriented budgeting were to be initiated; and, finally (g) the Cabinet is enjoined to
discuss a draft fiscal strategy statement.
By and large these requirements and agreements were fulfilled, without major deviations. The
considerable detail in which these conditions are expressed, naturally speaks to the prior and
more important engagement with and shared philosophy between the Government and the Bank,
on such issues as strengthening expenditure management, upgrading audit capacities, recognizing
Ministry and Agency accountability, and requiring Government and Parliament oversight on all
public expenditures. There is little question but that this is just plain, hard program footwork,
easily sidetracked and capable of losing focus. The challenges for PSAL II will be to sustain
enthusiasm and secure advances, step-by-step.
iii.vi The PSAL supported the implementation of a national means-tested social assistance benefit
targeted at the very poorest households. After Cabinet adoption of a concept paper and
implementation plan, a pilot program was initiated amongst a number of municipalities. The
National Scheme will be implemented in the course of PSAL 11.
(iv) Rationalizing the Interaction Between the Public and Private Sectors
iv.i The PSAL required the advancing to sale of a number of large commercialized state firms to
the private sector. Successful completion of this agreement would buttress the already impressive
achievement of privatizing 95 percent of companies under Latvia's privatization program. As a
number of the remaining firms were utilities, successful privatization entailed the establishment of
-7 -



appropriate regulatory regimes.
The agreements have not been satisfactorily fulfilled. The Government was unable to proceed
with the privatization of the energy utility, a clear breach of agreement. Strong Parliamentary and
public opposition resulted in the company being removed from the privatization program and
being placed on the list of strategic companies that are not to be privatized. This move does,
nonetheless, allow for some restructuring to take place. In addition, privatization of the
telecommunications company has been held up by a dispute with the strategic investor, a dispute
that has landed for arbitration in Stockholm. The remaining three large privatizations have only
slowly advanced. Nevertheless, the Government has made important improvements in the process
through which it undertakes its large-scale privatizations. Reputable international investment
Bankers/advisors are now involved not only during the sale of the assets but also during the due
diligence process and the drafting of the privatization regulations. This has greatly improved the
transparency and accountability of the process and reduced the opportunities for insider deals to
take place.
iv.ii In the course of the year (and with the support of the PSAL) a law was passed creating a
Public Services Regulatory Council with a view to eventually transferring the statutory
responsibilities for telecommunications, transport, energy, railways and the postal service to this
Council. With the support of PSAL II, secondary regulation is being drafted, criteria established
for appointing Commissioners, and a medium-term regulatory agenda is being developed. The
Council is expected to begin work later this year. In both the energy and telecommunications
sectors, PSAL II is pursuing increased competition while strengthening regulation, in light of the
reversals or delays in privatization in these cases. Progress in this area can only be characterized
as qualified. Flexibility has had to be exercised on both sides.
iv.iii Latvia's financial crisis of 1995 resulted in a strengthened regulation for banking institutions.
The PSAL I and successor operations have aimed for strengthening supervision of non-bank
financial institutions especially in the light of the pension reform that will allow, by the year 2003,
the second tier pension funds to be handled by private fund managers. A Law has been passed to
create a unified financial supervision agency and actions to be pursued now concern the
considerable detail of implementation.
iv. iv. Prior to this operation evaluation of regulatory proposals was not well coordinated across
the different actors within the Government of Latvia. No central entity (e.g. the Ministry of
Finance or of Justice) have been able to properly vet regulatory proposals, coordinate and assure
consistency across sectors, nor to perform rudimentary cost/effectiveness analysis. PSAL I aimed
to rectify this and has been successful in establishing the appropriate procedures and institutional
clearances. Implementation of these new procedures is prescribed for PSAL II. PSAL II also
aims to further enhance the transparency and accountability of the regulatory process.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N. A.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N. A.
-8 -



4.5 Instituttional development impact:
Institutional impact - seen here as changes in the rules and processes by and through which the
public sector conducts its business - has been considerable. Indeed it pervades the various
successful components of the operation. A few examples may be highlighted. The Cabinet, for
instance, is now involved in establishing medium term budgetary targets, a unified budget is now
prepared, and all state institutions will in future be audited; policy formulation and coordination
has been strengthened; the regulatory framework for utilities has been reformed and
strengthened, as has regulation of private financial funds; public sector employment and pay is
codified under new principles; the judicial system is taking steps to improve imnpartiality. This list
could be extended: it suffices to flag that future PSAL operations should consolidate, solidify and
advance these improvements.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencY:
The PSAL built upon substantial preparatory efforts stemming from a prior SAL, an Enterprise
and Financial Sector Restructuring Project, a Welfare Reform project and fairly intensive
economic and sector work accompanied by considerable technical assistance to prepare
sub-components. As a one-tranche operation, the critical question has always been whether
reform momentum would be sustained by the government sufficient to warrant proceeding to the
second and third operations.
The delays in privatization have been flagged as a major disappointment in this operation. In one
case, a serious and unanticipated public backlash arose against the proposed privatization of the
Energy Company; in the case of the Telecommunications Company disputes over exclusivity
terms led a strategic investor to seek international arbitration. It would not be appropriate in
either of these cases to suggest the government should have acted differently to forestall breach of
the PSAL agreements. Both the Government and the Bank have since made considerable efforts
to re-channel the subject agreements to ensuring competition, rather than insisting upon early
privatization. There is, of course, much merit to the suggestion that competition is the end that
privatization ultimately seeks to secure.
5.2 Factors generally subject to governnment control:
As noted earlier, this is a multifaceted operation, dealing broadly with numerous areas of public
governance. To succeed requires a clear programmatic vision, resoluteness and attentiveness, and
willingness to accommodate to changing circumstances without diluting objectives. There have
been areas where more timely action and closer attention may have resulted in a better outcome.
Chief among these, perhaps has been the anti-corruption drive where monitoring activities failed
to be activated in a timely manner. In addition, given the central importance of public sector
reform to this operation, the failure to produce an action-oriented strategy ("blueprint") for
reforrn is to be lamented. Other areas, such as functional reformns in Ministries, have also suffered
from delays, but explainable in terms of the refinement of concepts and subsequent recasting of
agreements in the course of preparation of PSAL II
- 9-



5.3 Factors generally subject to imiplementing agency control:
The special unit established to coordinate work for the PSAL performed well. No special factors affecting
implementation can be attributed to performance of its remit.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
N.A.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating:
Sustainability has been rated as "likely" for a number of reasons. The Government continues to
implement its reform program, and has simultaneously engaged in a strong participatory effort
with the Bank to develop PSAL II, taking into account the modifications enjoined by external
circumstance as well as intemal delays. There is no indication that reform momentum has
particularly slowed. Moreover, the Government's program carries enough support across the
political spectrum to continue its implementation. It is fully agreed that PSAL II will also contain
revised indicative agreements for PSAL III.
Apart from a strong history of reform that speaks well for future progress, further incentive is
being provided by the country's desire to join the European Union; like other candidate countries,
much of its reform agenda is now both pulled and defined by EU harmonization requirements.
For all these advantages it is also true that the kinds of public governance issues tackled in this
series of operations are not easy to implement and monitor, nor is it easy to evaluate outcomes.
Change will occur in small steps over a number of years, and benefits are rarely seen along short
timetables. In this regard, the choice of a programmatic adjustment instrument has proven its
wortih. The Bank has been able to show the necessary flexibility as there has never been any
question but that the Government is committed to the program. Such redefinitions as have
occurred have to a large extent been externally caused and appropriately accommodated. In an
important sense this does indicate, at least in a country with a proven track-record and a long -
term commitment, that Programmatic SALs add to sustainability, as they are less likely to incite
potentially acrimonious exchanges over tranche releases.
As noted earlier, the main delays in implementation have been in the anticorruption and
privatization components. PSAL II is placing renewed emphasis on these areas. The issue of
corrupt party financing is initially being tackled through a new Law being promulgated. The
"conflict of interest" abuse will be better policed by improved legal definition as well as added
institutional capacity. More broadly, anti-corruption institutional structures are being revamped
and fortified. The privatization component has already been reformulated to incorporate the use of
international investment advisers to ensure greater transparency and to ensure, with Latvian
counterparts, high professional standards, thus inviting more confident domestic and international
participation in sales. PSAL II will benchmark measured progress in this area. In the case of the
canceled privatization of Latvenergo, the Government is re-focusing its strategy and reform
- 10-



program towards enhancing competition in the power sector.
With respect to poverty reduction, the pilot of the proposed national means-tested social
assistance benefit has been successful. The government has now prepared amendments to the
social assistance law which will allow the benefit to be implemented nation wide.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N.A.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The choices of the components of the project were
appropriate and formulated in a highly-participative process with the governmnent of Latvia. The
decision to change during preparation from a traditional Structural Adjustment Loan to a
programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan was appropriate to the circumstances.
The presence of the Bank office in Riga has greatly facilitated the preparation and supervision of
the project. The local office support and follow-through was extremely helpful to the government
of Latvia as well as to Bank staff based in Washington and staff in the World Bank office in
Poland.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank was able to closely monitor progress under the PSAL program. The high professional
capabilities of the staff in the resident mission permitted a continuous dialogue. Formal
supervision missions, therefore, could focus on the difficult items of program and seek solutions
with government counterparts. This greatly facilitated the effectiveness of the supervision
missions.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory for all stages of the development and
supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The authorities' performance was satisfactory. The Government appointed a counterpart team to
interact with the Bank's team. Each Ministry and administrative body was represented on the
counterpart team. This facilitated the policy dialogue, and also facilitated a clear understanding of
responsibilities for individual policy actions of each ministry or administrative body.
7.5 Government implementation peiformance:
- 11 -



Again the borrower's performance was satisfactory. For the most part, reform goals were met
and the Government of Latvia was helpful and cooperative. But as noted earlier, in some cases
progress was halting or slow, as in the privatizations, the anti-corruption activities, and adopting
an Institutional Framework Law. None of these are fatal to performance. As noted, where needed,
remedial actions were instituted and progress towards PSAL II is satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Government's counterpart team greatly facilitated the policy dialogue as well as provided a
locus for coordinating the activities of the numerous actors in this complex operation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The performance of the Government of Latvia was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
As noted earlier, the kinds of public governance issues tackled in this series of operations are
difficult to implement, nor is it easy to evaluate outcomes. Change may be expected to occur in
small steps only over a number of years; benefits are rarely seen along short timetables; and formal
achievement of "benchmarks" may mean little if not embodied in deep and lasting institutional
changes. Even so some lessons are reasonably clear.
The choice of a programmatic adjustment instrument has proven its worth. The instrument clearly
allowed for a medium-term framework to be developed, with several phases of activity logically
slated over several years. It is doubtful that this could have been as easily obtained if a traditional
SAL had been adopted. Moreover, the Bank has been able to show the necessary flexibility as
there has never been any question but that the Government is committed to the program. Such
redefinitions as have occurred have to a large extent been externally caused. In an important sense
this does indicate, at least in a country with a proven track-record and a long-term
commitment, that PSALs confer an advantage, as they are less likely to incite potentially
acrimonious exchanges over tranche releases. Moreover, the transformation of an overall vision
into multiple "bite-sized" actions, has proven in Latvia a valuable stimulus to framing programs,
and an equally valuable stimulus to achieving them.
Close contact and participatory work between Latvian and Bank officials over the period
following the SAL allowed for a fairly mature program to be available when the Russian crisis
precipitated the need for exceptional finance.
Continuity in the Bank Team has also been an important factor. The strong familiarity and
near-continuous active and positive involvement by Bank staff was especially useful in dealing
with complex problems, and highly valued by the Government. Momentum was, in part,
sustained because the team that designed the PSAL stayed intact for the most part during
implementation.
Other factors usually implicated in success were also present, most pertinently stable government,
- 12-



public support and strong country ownership and commitment.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is the Government's Assessment of the PSAL.
I. Background
The first Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Latvia for US$
40.41 million to support Governments structural reform program. The loan is Fixed Spread Loan
denominated in US$ with a maturity of 17 years and a grace period of 5 years which came
effective on March 22, 2000. The loan supported the continuation of the Government's ongoing
economic reform program backed by the Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan
The Programmatic lending program during its first year was the starting point of the
challenge for Latvia in continuation of the reforn program. This is the multi-year program that
spells out capacity building and institutional reform. Therefore the first year's operation was very
important to drive the institutional reforms in direction, which leads to achievement of the policy
reforms in medium term.
II. The main polcy reform issues addressed within the Programmatic Structural
Adjustment Loan
A. Returning to a Macroeconomic Framework Conducivefor Growth
T'he Russian Crisis has put Latvia's economy temporarily off track as growth has declined,
the fiscal deficit has widened and the current account situation worsened. This required a macro
economic stabilization program that consists of measures to reduce imbalances in the economy in
the short and medium term. In 2000 the Fiscal deficit was over 3 per cent, but the GDP growth
was 6.6 per cent and current account deficit was reduced considerably in 2000.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program, the aim was to implement the
pension reforn plans. So far Saeima has adopted legislation to create the second tier of the
pension system, the Ministry of Finance has prepared acceptable implementation plan for second
tier and Ministry of Welfare has prepared plan for reforming PAYGO pension system, including
communication plan, technical analysis of reform options.
B. Strengthening the Credibility of the Public Sector
Public accountability and transparency were set as the key elements of ongoing reform
strategy to ensure that institutions improve their efficiency in service delivery and strengthen
citizen's trust in administration. To guide these necessary reforms in the public sector the
Government adopted a strategy to address the specific problems of corruption.
-13 -



Anticorruption.  To increase the credibility of the institutions the commitment was made to
undertake policy and institutional reform to reduce corruption and increase transparency of the
public sector. For this purpose in June of 1999, a permanent Executive Secretariat subordinate to
the Corruption Prevention Council (CPC), was created. It was also recognized that the CPC
required additional staff and resources to function properly.
Therefore, an Executive Head of the Secretariat to the CPC was appointed and the secretariat
with adequate staff positions and resources have been endowed.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results
achieved in this area include:
>     CPC Secretariat published on a quarterly basis the status of implementation of its
Anticorruption Program;
>     CPC published on a annual basis a report on changes in corruption in the public sector;
Condition to be fulfilled as part of PSAL II.
Although CPC had started the preparatory work a satisfactory monitoring mechanism has
yet to be established.
However, the emphasis of the government has largely been focused on refining legal
framework or creating new structures, which often has been at the expense of the existing
ones.
Conflict of Interest. Within State Revenue Service (SRS) an Anticorruption Unit (AU) is
established, which is responsible for evaluating declarations of income and assets of public
officials to identify cases of conflict of interest as well as illicit enrichment. The Government
agreed to the judgment that the procedures used by the AU were not sufficiently developed to
fulfill this important task.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results achieved in
this area include:
>     AU has developed the set of documents and procedures to effectively identify conflict of
interest and cases of illicit enrichment, including:
(i) adequate forms for declaration of income and assets;
(ii) a draft manual and curriculum for training SRS staff in processing and assessment of
declarations;
(iii) a draft manual and curriculum for training of the public sector employees in situations
of conflict of interest.
>     Annual declarations submitted by the President of the State, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime
Ministers, ministers and parliamentary secretaries are published on an annual basis.
- 14 -



The AU was without a manager for the second part of 2000 and as such was not capable
of undertaking its reform agenda. A new manager was appointed only in November 2000
and the agenda is getting back on track again.
Judicial Reform. Judicial reform has been high on the government's agenda and the Cabinet
of Ministers has mandated the Ministry of Justice to develop an action plan to consolidate the
judiciary system. Despite efforts public opinion polls repeatedly rank our judicial institutions
among the most corrupt and inefficient public institutions in the country.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results achieved in
this area include:
)     The Minister of Justice has issued an instruction to provide for greater transparency in
communications between judges and litigants in criminal and civil cases;
>     Minister of Justice has issued an instruction mandating an element of randomization in
assignment of judges to handle court cases where appropriate; a system for monitoring
implementation of this procedure is designed. However, implementation of instruction is partial
and no monitoring system for compliance is yet in place. It has been recognized that fulfillment of
this task is more complicated than initially anticipated.
>     The Minister of Justice has issued an instruction, which requires all court decisions and
rulings to be published with a system of cumulative indexing. The publications are stored
electronically and are available to the public at low cost in those courts that are computerized.
However, implementation of instruction is partial and court decisions are not yet published with a
system of cumulative indexing. It has been recognized that fulfillment of this task is more
complicated than initially anticipated.
>     The Minister of Justice has issued an instruction providing for (i) training of judges and
prosecutors in new laws prior to their enactment; (ii) appropriate budget allocation to the Judicial
Training Center to comply with the requirement referred to above. However, implementation of
instruction is not implemented yet. It has been recognized that fulfillment of this task is more
complicated than initially anticipated and allocation of appropriate resources has been
problematic.
Public Sector Agencies. During recent years Latvia has followed the example of many other
countries and delegated the execution of policies to autonomous public sector agencies. The
Government was aware that this was done in an ad-hoc manner and without having a clearly
defined institutional framework of public administration or legislative framework for operations of
the agencies, especially financial accountability, in place.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results achieved in
this area include:
- 15-



)0-    The Cabinet of Ministers has adopted concept for the Law On the Institutional Framework
for Public Administration, which defines the kinds of public institutions within the public sector.
>     Law on the Institutional Framework for Public Administration has been submitted to
Saeima.
>     Concept for the Law On Public Sector Agencies has been adopted by the Cabinet of
Ministers, which defines: (i) types of agencies; (ii) regulations for the formation of agencies of
various types; (iii) procedure for agency approval; (iv) procedure to ensure openness; (v)
mechanisms for accounting mechanisms and financial control, including requirements for reports;
(vi) adequate provisions for transitions; and (vii) state liability conditions.
>     Law on Public Sector Agencies has been adopted by Saeima in March 2001.
>     Cabinet of Ministers has adopted measure to impose a Moratorium on the creation on
agencies till Saeima passes Law on Public Sector Agencies.
The most important issue ahead is proper enforcement of the law on Public Sector Agencies.
Openness of Information.  To further enhance citizen's access to public information,
regulation for implementation of the law on openness of information that stipulates more clearly
the classification of information has been adopted in August 1999. As part of this exercise a
system for monitoring implementation has also been developed.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results achieved in
this area include that the Cabinet of Ministers has adopted implementing regulations for the Law
on Openness of Information. The regulations stipulate:
9     institutional arrangements for ensuring easy access to public infornation, including
publication of the procedures in the annual reports of state bodies;
)     mechanisms for individuals to appeal denials of information;
)     a system for monitoring the compliance of state bodies with the law.
The implementation of this legal framework is the main issue, which is yet to be fulfilled.
C. Strengthening the Public Sector Institutional Capacity
Streamlining the structure of the public sector. The process of public administration reform
was started because it was understood that the functions and structures of ministries did fully not
meet the demands of a market economy. The Bureau of Public Administration Reform (currently
Secretariat of MoPSR) commissioned the development of a methodology for functional and
- 16 -



structural reviews of each ministry. This methodology was successfully piloted in the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Secretariat has been given the task to monitor the implementation of this action
plan.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results achieved in
this area include:
>     The Secretariat of MoPSR has prepared a program (blueprint) with attached to it an
action plan to implement public administration reform, however, the action plan was too general
and concrete steps and tasks were not identified
>     The Secretariat of MoPSR has designed a mechanism to monitor and report to the Cabinet
of Ministers and public on changes in public sector management performance, however, this
mechanism required the implementation plan with clear monitoring indicators and that was not
developed.
>     Secretariat of MoPSR is monitoring the implementation of the action plan of
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure that the action plan meets the need to: (i)
integrate into the EU; (ii) bring the Ministry into conformity with future laws on the Institutional
Framework for Public Administration and on Public Sector Agencies; (iii) establish clear lines of
accountability and reporting; and (iv) strengthen systems for measuring the substantive and
financial performance of bodies managed by the ministry.
>     Secretariat of MoPSR has completed the interviews for the in depth functional review of
the Ministry of Economy.
>     Secretariat of MoPSR has launched the in depth review of the functions of the Ministry of
Justice.
Incentives for recruitment and retention of staff Currently pay system in Latvian public
service heavily depends on bonuses and management contracts. Therefore the Cabinet of
Ministers has agreed to a broad-banded, transparent uniform pay scale, which rewards merit and
minimizes discretionary and ad-hoc bonuses. This is a major step forward for not only improving
the transparency of government but also for the proper functioning of it.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results achieved in
this area include:
>     Cabinet of Ministers has adopted the concept for a broad-banded, transparent uniform pay
scale in the public sector, which rewards merit and minimizes discretionary and ad hoc bonuses
and which includes: (i) job descriptions at a sufficient level of disaggregation; (ii) criteria to be
used in defining pay for specific public sector wide jobs; (iii) levels of pay that are competitive
with the private sector for basic professions and competitive with a medium term budget
framework; (iv) census and methodology for a statistical database on pay, employment, and
- 17-



functions in the public sector to be used in planning and control of pay and staff development (see
above); (v) compatibility with Civil Service development; and (vi) principles for transiting to the
new system.
'-    Ministry of Finance has designed the methodology for a survey of the existing structure of
pay, to be used to design the new pay system.
:i>-    The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the Law on Civil Service to Saeima, which is
harmonized with the reform of comprehensive public sector pay system and improving the system
of incentives for public servants through: (i) performance reviews administered by superiors, (ii)
performance of the servants in conformity with ethic principles.
The law was adopted by Saeima in September 2000.
Public expenditure management. The fiscal policies have been conservative and fiscal
outcomes have generally been positive. The great strides have been achieved in improving
treasury system over the years and fiscal discipline has and will be an important policy stance of
the Government of Latvia. The issue that the budget is not comprehensive has been recognized. It
has also been recognized that financial accountability is limited do to partial transparency of fiscal
accounts, absence of pressure from the Legislative and citizens, weak internal controls and
inadequate internal control. The budgets are separated from policies and performance. This also
reflects that the yearly budget does not allow focus on policies that can lead to instability of
policies and unclear resources for them. The budget process is open ended and is not associated
to the outputs therefore the behavior of central agencies is peculiar and may lead to inefficiencies.
To bring up these issues many efforts have been undertaken and great challenges are still to be
achieved.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results achieved in
this area include:
Saeima has passed amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management
(LBFM) bringing all accounts of the Budget Financed Institutions (BFI) into the Budget,
introducing a requirement for state institutions to submit annual audited reports to the State
Treasury as of 2001 and gives powers to the Ministry of Finance to require and define reports on
the operations of all subordinate enterprises.
>     The State Audit Office (SAO) has recommended to Parliament to establish the functions
of a Public Accounts Committee (PAC)
'>    The Cabinet has agreed to discuss (i) a draft fiscal strategy statement and (ii) medium-term
rnacro/fiscal framework submitted by the Ministry of Finance.
The fiscal strategy statement and medium-term macro/fiscal framework have been
discussed in the Government in September 2000.
>     The Cabinet of Ministers decided that the Cabinet Regulation (#160) will be amended to
respect the following principles: (i) all new policy proposals by line ministries to Cabinet must be
accompanied by offsetting measures; and (ii) in order for the proposal to be submitted to Cabinet
of Ministers, fiscal costs of these proposals and offsetting measures must be prepared by line
rninistries for 3 years; (iii) and reviewed by MoF for technical accuracy of costs.
The Cabinet regulation (#160) was not amended and the State Chancellery is preparing
- 18 -



for drafting new regulations.
Local Government Finances. There is also a need to improve the accountability by local
governments for their finances. To deal with this issue work to develop a proposal for an
integrated financial accounting and reporting procedures for local governments has commenced.
These procedures should allow for better access to information about local government budget
execution as well as their cash and debt management. The local accountability has also been
important and necessary for high performance of management of local governments and for
successful decentralization.
Social Assistance. There is general consensus among the Latvian Government, the UNDP
and the World Bank that the system of distributing social assistance through local governments
does not reach the poor in the proportions that it could and should. During the first year of the
Programmatic Lending Program period Cabinet of Ministers has adopted concept paper with
implementation plan, to implement a national means-tested social assistance benefit targeted at the
very poorest households.
D. Rationalizing the Interactions between the Public and Private Sector
Privatization and Regulatory framework. The government was committed to ensure
regulatory stability without intervention in those areas where the market forces are to bring the
best results, so the government was committed to stick to fundamental principles by which it
could guide the principles.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results achieved in
this area include:
>     The Cabinet of Ministers had submitted the Law On Public Services Regulators to the
Saeima. The law was adopted by Saeima in October 2000.
>     The Ministry of Economy had established an inter-ministerial working group to prepare an
action plan for the establishment of the multi-sectoral regulatory agency and to strengthen the
regulatory regime in each sub-sector
As regards the Privatization issue it was recognized that Latvia should use the best commercial
practices to privatize successfully important state companies in order that market prices are
obtained.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the key results achieved in this
area include:
>     Cabinet of Ministers decided to use reputed international 'investment banks/advisors' for
divestiture of Government ownership Lattelekom, Latvenergo (before its withdrawal from
privatization), Ventspils Nafta, Latvijas Gaze and Latvian Shipping if necessary and as agreed
with the World Bank.
- 19 -



>     Ministry of Economy provided the World Bank with a plan for when and for what purpose
to use international 'investment banks/advisors' and how these will be procured.
Cabinet of Ministers decided to ensure that the Latvian Privatization Agency will use best
commercial practice as agreed with the World Bank (1) to procure international 'investment
banks/advisors' if necessary and as agreed with the Bank and (2) to privatize/divest its interest in
the five enterprises.
>     Cabinet of Ministers approved funding for international 'investment banks/advisors' up to
am amount of 3 million Lats for LPA in the expenditure plan of the Privatization Fund.
The Government under the pressure from the public (the necessary signatures for
conducting the referendum were gathered) and opposition decided to withdraw the Latvenergo
from privatization process. So the Parliament made amendments in the Energy law in August
2000 stipulating that "Latvenergo" should remain state owned company. Therefore it was agreed
that the Government was obliged to improve the competitiveness of the energy sector, among
others, through a restructuring of Latvenergo, which addresses EU direcfive 96/92.
The main challenges for the Telecommunications sector are the creation of a
pro-competitive regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector that is consistent with
the sector's rapidly changing technological and economic characteristics and privatization
Governments remaining shares in the sector by using best commercial practices.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the Cabinet of ministers
has submitted Telecommunications law to Saeima after amendments to the current draft to require
an independent regulator to be established, and to allow the telecommunications regulator to be
part of the Public Services Regulatory Council starting 2001. Law on Public Services Regulators
adopted by Saeima in October 2000 regulates the establishment of Public Services Regulatory
Council, which is responsible also for regulation of the telecommunications sector.
Financial Sector Regulation. Good progress in strengthening banking supervision has been
imade. The Government was fully aware that existing regulatory structure did not fully
accommodate the growth of non-bank financial institutions. At the same time the steps were taken
ito introduce a new law establishing an integrated financial regulatory body. It was also recognized
that for this agency to be successful, the strengthening of the capacity to supervise the non-bank
financial institutions was necessary, ensuring independency of the new agency and that the
formation of it did not undermine the credibility of existing banking supervision.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period the Cabinet of Ministers
submitted the Law on Unified Financial Supervision Agency to Saeima. The law was adopted in
June 2000. It is stipulated that the law comes into force in July 1, 2001. Work was initiated that
had to be resulted in an action plan (i) for strengthening supervision of financial institutions like
the pension funds, investment companies, leasing firms and the securities market; (ii) for the
structure, organization, and operational arrangement for a unified regulatory agency; and (iii) that
set out the change management program covering the arrangements of transition from the existing
regulatory structure to the new unified regulatory agency, including development of
-20 -



communication strategy.
Business regulation. The regulatory system contained many of the formal mechanisms that
were essential for building an effective and transparent regulatory framework that can interact
efficiently with the business community in Latvia. The difficulty with evaluating the regulatory
proposals especially for consistency with existing laws and regulations as well as their budgetary
impact was recognized.
During the first year of the Programmatic Lending Program period:
>     Ministry of Justice completed a draft manual for drafting laws and regulations based on
good legislative techniques.
>     The Ministry of Justice created a special unit to implement a unified system for drafting
laws and regulations, with the capacity to train officials in other ministries in drafting techniques.
>     The Ministry of Justice created a comprehensive definition of "normative acts".
>     The Ministry of Finance prepared a draft manual for assessing the budgetary consequences
of draft laws and regulations.
>     The School of Public Administration developed a training program in impact analysis.
To improve the feedback from businesses and households with respect to regulation that
effects them the Government was aware that it has to improve the ability of civil society to
monitor this, we require regulatory bodies to adhere to clear but simple annual reporting
requirements. Significant steps to improve business regulation based on FIAS recommendations
to reduce the barriers to foreign as well as domestic investments have been undertaken. To
improve the functioning of state bodies that enforce regulations such as inspectorates, actions
have been taken to strengthen their capabilities in assessment of the impact of their regulatory
enforcement actions, capabilities to monitor their actions and to improve the accountability of the
state bodies that enforce regulation. The Secretariat of the MoPSR has prepared and the cabinet
has adopted the new rules and procedures for inspections. To create ownership under its
constituency, a coordination council for inspectorates with rotating presidency has been set up to
help steer the implementation of this particular reforrn program.
Regulatory coordination is an area, especially in construction, where improvements were
required as to minimize delay and costs to the private sector. The Latvian Development Agency
has played a pivotal role in this and has developed recommendations on management, use and
design of transparent regulations, appeals, public participation, regulatory control over natural
monopolies, infrastructure finance, and policy on historic structures and districts.
III THE ROLE OF THE WORLD BANK
During the implementation of the loan the performance of the World Bank was highly
- 21 -



satisfactory. The close cooperation and partnership developed with the World Bank staff and
consultants enabled the Government and its ministers, higher management of ministries and other
civil servants to obtain and use the Bank's expertise in different fields of the institutional reformns.
In this period the Bank's opinion and very often professional advice in different areas of the
reforms has been very helpful when taking the decisions on particular issues of the reform and
also in raising the awareness of all involved parties including wider public about necessity of the
institutional and policy reforms Latvia is undertaking.
(1,) Cojinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
None
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
A. Returning to a macroeconomic framework conducive to
robust growth
A. I. Correcting the macro-imbalance that re-emerged after the Russia  The economy recovered well after the implementation of the various
crisis                                                         macro-economic measures introduced in the IMF Stand-by
Arrangement. The fiscal deficit was not reduced as much as had
been hoped, but this is being addressed in a new arrangement with
the IMF.
A.2. Ensuring financial viability of the pension reform        The passage of legislation to introduce a second pillar is the first
step to correct the emerging financial imbalances. Implementation
of the reform is proceeding apace and will be further addressed in
PSAL 11.
B. Strengthening the credibility of the public sector
B 1. Reducing risks and opportunities for corruption in govemsent  The anti-corruption components of the operation were judged to be
and thejudiciary                                               marginally satisfactory. A full mechanism to monitor and report on
corruption in the public sector has not been established. Some
progress has been made in drafting manuals to train public sector
employees conceming conflicts of interest and illicit enrichment.
Judicial reform has advanced according to timetable. Judges are, for
the most part, now randomly assigned to cases, and ex parte
communications between judges and litigants are now fall under a
specific instruction from the Minister of Justice. Court decisions and
rulings are, more slowly, being published electronically.
B2. Strengthen transparency and reporting of the ministries and  The legislative framework under which the public sector operates
bodies subordinated, supervised or managed by them             has been improved through the adoption of a Law on Public Sector
Agencies. An Administrative Framework Law has been folded into
a proposed Law on Executive Powers, which has been submitted to
Parliament for approval.
C. Strengthening the public sector institutional capacity
C. I. Streamline the structure of the public sector and increase its  A blueprint for public sector reform was produced, unfortunately
administrative efficiency and transparency                     without a fully specified action plan. Nonetheless, functional
reviews of the Ministries of Economy and Justice have been
initiated, and the plan for the reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture is being implemented.
C.2. Strengthen human resource management by improving         The Cabinet of Ministers adopted the concept of a broad-banded,
incentives for recruitment and retention of high quality staff  transparent uniform pay scale in the public sector. A survey is to be
conducted on existing pay, to be used to design a new pay system.
C.3. Improving public expenditure management
C.3.a. Develop transparent and unified public accounts         All accounts of budget financed operations have been brought into
the budget.
C.3.b. Strengthen accountability for the use of resources      All State-budgeted institutions are to supply annual audit
statements. The proposals has been made to Parliament to form a
Public Accounts Committee.
C.3.c. Development of performance-oriented budgets in line     A draft fiscal strategy document has now been elevated to Cabinet
ministries                                                     for discussion,. The Cabinet will review all new policy proposals by
line Ministries. Agreement has been reached with Ministries on
conducting a broad public expenditure review.
C.3.d. Development of a medium-term budget                     The Cabinet has agreed to disseminate and discuss a medium-term
fiscal framework.
C.3.e. Enhance local accountability                            Work has begun on developing integrated financial and reporting
procedures for local govenmnents.
C.4. improve targeting of social assistance as a means of preventing    A pilot to implement and test the introduction of a social assistance
negative consequences to households of poverty by implementing a  benefit is proceeding well. The Cabinet has adopted an
national social safety net providing income support to the lowest  implementation plan to introduce a national benefit targeted at the
income households                                              very poorest households.
D. Rationalizing the interaction between the public and the
private sector
D. I. Move most of the significant remaining commercial state firms    Not fulfilled. The Govemment was unable to proceed with the
to the private sector to promote open markets, restructuring and  privatization of the energy and telecommunications utilities, nor
industrial growth while fostering the development of stable    with other "large" privatizations. However, reputed intemational
govemance structures and adhering to fundamental principles for its   banks and advisors have been brought into the process of assisting
regulatory interventions                                       in remaining privatizations.
D.2. Energy sector: regulation and privatization              Energy company has not been privatized. A Law has been passed to
create a Public Services Regulatory Council which will incorporate
energy sector regulation.
- 23 -



D.3. Telecommunications sector: regulation and privatization  Telecommunications privatization in arbitration over dispute with
putative buyer. A Telecommunications Law has been submitted to
Parliament. The Telecommunications regulator will be part of the
Public Services Regulatory Council.
D.4. Achievement of a unifofm approach to supervision of finance  A Law on a Unified Financial Supervision Agency has been
and capital markets and strengthening of financial supervision system  submitted to Parliament, and establishment ant implementation are
with particular emphasis on non-bank financial institutions  well advanced.
D.5. Strengthen legal and regulatory process, to ensure more  The Ministry of Justice has taken the lead in fostering best practice
efficient regulation and reduce the costs to the public sector created    in the drafting of laws across Ministries and agencies. The Ministry
by abuse of regulatory powe                                 of Finance is introducing systems to assess the budgetary costs of
new policies. The School of Public Administration has developed
suitable training material for Civil servants.
-24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
N. A.
-25-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N. A.
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
HQ                            7   1 team leader, 1 macro                S              S
economist, 3 public sector
specialists, I privatization
specialist, 1 regulatory specialist
RM                            6    1 human development specialist,      S              S
I macro economist, 3 public
sector specialists, I regulatory
specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
HQ                           13    1 team leader/macro                  S              S
economist, 4 public sector
specialists, I privatization
specialist, 2 regulatory
specialists, 2 financial sector
specialists, I human
development specialist, I
energy specialist, I local
government specialist
RM                            6   1 human development specialist,       S              S
I macro economist, 3 public
sector specialists, I regulatory
specialist
Supervision
HQ                           12   1 team leader/macro                   S              S
economist, 4 public sector
specialists, I privatization
specialist, 2 regulatory
specialists, 2 financial sector
specialists, I human
development specialist, I
energy specialist
RM                            5   1 human development specialist,       S              S
I macro economist, 2 public
sector specialists, I regulatory
specialist
ICR
HQ                            I    Lead Economist                       S              S
RM                            I    Senior Economist                     S              S
Excludes particpation of consultants financed by trustfunds.
(b) Staff:
-27 -



Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              200                       $703
Appraisal/Negotiation        (included above)           (included above)
Supervision                              73                       $244
ICR                          (included above)           (included above)
Total                                   273                       $947
Excludes use of trustfunds
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
L Physical                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Li Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               OH  * SUOM  O N  O NA
CJ Gender                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Private sector development             0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
-29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
El Lending                                           OHSOS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  Ou  OHU
LI Overall                                           OHS OS  O  u  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
LI Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
FL Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS   0 U   O HU
LI Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Presdent's Report on a Proposed Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Latvia.
February 23, 2000. Report No. P 7352 LV
2. Supervision Report. October 2000
3. Panel Report. Quality Assurance Group. November 12, 1999
4. Borrowers Appraisal. June 26th, 2001.
- 31 -



