Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7007 LV
Loan Agreement
(Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan)
between 
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 17, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7007 LV
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (The Bank): 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated February 16, 2000, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy over the three-year period from 
2000-2002 (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions relevant 
to the first part of the Program, according to the benchmarks described in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement, to the satisfaction of the Bank; and 
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided to 
provide assistance to the Borrower in support of the first part of the Program by 
making the Loan as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General 
Conditions”; 
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program 
referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“BOL” means Bank of Latvia, the Borrower’s central bank, and any 
successor thereto;
(b)
“CPC” means the Borrower’s Corruption Prevention Council, and any 
successor thereto;
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
“Lat” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(e)
“Lattelekom” means Limited Liability Company SIA “Lattelekom” registered 
in the Register of Enterprises of Republic of Latvia on January 9, 1992, Registration 
number 000305278, and any successor thereto;
(f)
“Latvenergo” means State Joint Stock Company Under Privatisation VPAS 
“Latvenergo” registered in the Register of Enterprises of Republic of Latvia on 
October 8, 1991, Registration number 000303294, and any successor thereto; 
(g)
“Latvijas Gaze” means Public Joint Stock Company A/S “Latvijas Gaze” 
registered in the Register of Enterprises of Republic of Latvia on March 22, 1991, 
Registration number 000300064, and any successor thereto; 
(h)
“Saeima” means the Borrower’s parliament, and any successor thereto; and
(i)
“Ventspils Nafta” means Public Joint Stock Company A/S “Ventspils Nafta” 
registered in the Register of Enterprises of Republic of Latvia on May 9, 1991, 
Registration number 000300309, and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to forty 
million, four hundred ten thousand dollars ($40,410,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in Bank of 
Latvia, a deposit account in dollars, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Deposit Account. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account unless the Bank has 
received the payment of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
four hundred and four thousand one hundred dollars ($404,100). On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i)
eighty-five hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the 
date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 
3.02 of the General Conditions to but not 
including the fourth anniversary of 
such date; and 
(ii)
seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.  
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Article IV 
of the General Conditions.  
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable to semiannually 
in arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year.  
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a)  The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Page  4
Approved Currency;  
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and  
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate collar on said Variable 
Rate.  
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect. 
(b)
The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in the 
implementation of actions and policies embodied in the Program, in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request. 
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Smilsu Street
Riga, LV-1919
Latvia
Facsimile:
371 7095 503
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA 
By /s/ Peteris Vinkelis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes F. Linn
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
Page  6
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower: \0c
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667                     -
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors
 728                 728.43
Tobacco processing 
machinery
 897 
       897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
 971                    -
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
Page  7
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  
(a)
the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by 
(b)
the installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment 
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 
of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2005, 
through  July 15, 2016
4.17%
On January 15, 2017
4.09%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:  
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank and multiplying the amount of each such withdrawals by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified 
in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principle Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.  
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purpose solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.  
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Page  8
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii)  if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component on the Screen Rate. 
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each amount. 
SCHEDULE 3
Program of Actions Taken by the Borrower
1.
The Borrower has maintained an appropriate macro-economic policy framework, 
consistent with the objectives of the Program, as determined on the basis of 
indicators agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank. 
2.
The Borrower has adopted legislation to create the second tier of the pension 
system.
3.
An executive Head of the Secretariat to the CPC has been appointed, with 
adequate staff positions and funds, including also for public education.
4.
The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted to the Saeima the proposed Law on the 
Institutional Framework for Public Administration and the Law on Public Sector 
Agencies, together with the adoption of measures ensuring that a moratorium on the 
creation of agencies will be maintained until the proposed Law on Public Sector 
Agencies is enacted.
5.
Implementation regulations for the Law on Openness of Information have been 
adopted and have entered into force.
6.
A transparent uniform broad-banded public sector pay scale, as agreed upon by 
the Borrower and the Bank, has been adopted.
7.
The Cabinet of Ministers has agreed that the revised Cabinet Regulation No. 160 
will be amended to respect the following principle; namely, that all new policy 
proposals by line ministries to the Cabinet must be accompanied by offsetting 
measures, and in order for the proposal to be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers, 
the fiscal costs of these proposals and offsetting measures must be prepared by line 
ministries for three years, and reviewed by the Ministry of Finance for technical 
accuracy of costs. 
8.
Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management have been adopted and 
entered into force, with the effect of: (i) bringing all accounts of budget-financed 
institutions of the Borrower into the budget; and (ii) defining all bodies under the 
management of ministries’ reporting requirements.
9.
The Cabinet has agreed to discuss: (i) a draft fiscal strategy statement; and 
(ii) a medium-term macro/fiscal framework submitted by the Minister of Finance.
10.
An official manual for drafting laws and business regulations has been 
completed.
11.
The Government of the Borrower has submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers 
proposed rules for inspections procedures to ensure that business inspections are 
carried out in a transparent and consistent manner.
12.
The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted to the Saeima a proposed 
telecommunications law, allowing an independent regulator as a transition measure and 
clarifying the relationship of the independent regulator for the telecommunications to 
Page  9
the Public Service Regulatory Council as established under the Law on the Public 
Service Regulator.
13.
(a)  The Cabinet of Ministers has issued a decision requiring: the use of 
reputed international investment banks/advisors for Lattelekom, Latvenergo, Ventspils 
Nafta, Latvijas Gaze and Latvian Shipping, if necessary and as agreed with the World 
Bank; (b) The Ministry of Economy has prepared a plan concerning the timing and use 
of/terms of reference for such international investment banks/advisors; (c) The 
Cabinet of Ministers has issued a decision requiring the Latvian Privatization Agency 
to commit to use best commercial practices with respect to: (i) method of selection; 
and (ii) to divest/privatize the Borrower’s interest in the foregoing enterprises.
14.
The Cabinet of Ministers has approved funding for international investment 
banks/advisors in an amount of up to 3 million Lats for the Latvian Privatization 
Agency in the expenditure plan for the Privatization Fund.
15.
The Cabinet of Ministers has approved and announced with respect to Latvenergo 
to establish the Daugava Hydro Plants, transmission and (one or more) distribution 
units as separate subsidiaries. The Riga Combined Heat and Plants and non-core 
business activities will be separated followed by partial divestiture of state 
ownership.
16.
The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted to the Saeima the proposed law on public 
service regulators.
17.
The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the Law on the Unified Financial 
Supervision Agency to Saeima.
18.
The Cabinet of Ministers has adopted a concept paper with implementation plan, 
to implement a national means-tested social assistance benefit targeted at the very 
poorest households.
19.
The Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Transport have issued jointly a decree 
establishing an inter-ministerial working group to prepare an action plan for the 
establishment of the multi-sectoral regulatory agency and for strengthening the 
regulatory regime in each of the following sub-sectors: electricity, gas, 
telecommunications, post and railway services.
