                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00003308



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-79970)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

                                        FOR A

        DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                        WITH A

         CATASTROPHE DEFERRED DRAWDOWN OPTION (CAT DDO)



                                   February 18, 2015




Social, Urban, Rural, and Resilience Global Practice
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         The US Dollar is the currency in El Salvador

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 – December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAPRA        Central America Probabilistic Risk Assessment
CAT DDO      Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option
CCRIF SPC    Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility Segregated Portfolio Company
CEPREDENAC   Coordination Center for the Prevention of Natural Disasters in Central America (Centro
             de Coordinación para la Prevención de los Desastres Naturales en América Central)
COSEFIN      Council of Ministers of Finance of Central America, Panama, and the Dominican
             Republic (Consejo de Ministros de Hacienda o Finanzas de Centroamérica, Panamá y
             República Dominicana)
CPF          Country Partnership Framework
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
DACGER       Directorate for Adaptation to Climate Change and Strategic Risk Management
             (Dirección de Adaptación al Cambio Climático y Gestión Estratégica del Riesgo)
DDO          Deferred Drawdown Option
DPL          Development Policy Loan
DRM          Disaster Risk Management
FOPROMID     Fund for Civil Protection and Disaster Prevention and Mitigation (Fondo de Protección
             Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de Desastres)
FOVIAL       Road Conservation Fund (Fondo de Conservación Vial)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GoES         Government of El Salvador
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IMF          International Monetary Fund
ISR          Implementation Status and Results Report
MARN         Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y
             Recursos Naturales)
MINED        Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educación)
MINSAL       Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
MOPTVDU      Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Housing, and Urban Development (Ministerio de
             Obras Públicas, Transporte, Vivienda, y Desarrollo Urbano)
NDP          2010-2014 National Development Plan (Plan Quinquenal de Desarrollo 2010-2014)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PAHO         Pan American Health Organization
PD           Program Document
PDO          Program Development Objective
RRC          Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Committee
SAV          Secretariat for Vulnerability Affairs of the Presidency of El Salvador (Secretaría para
             Asuntos de Vulnerabilidad)
STPP         Technical and Planning Secretariat of the Presidency (Secretaría Técnica y de
             Planificación de la Presidencia)
SERP         Sectoral Emergency Response Plan
Senior Global Practice Director:   Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
              Practice Manager:    Anna Wellenstein
          Project Team Leader:     Ana Campos Garcia
             ICR Team Leader:      Ana Campos Garcia
                                   EL SALVADOR
                  Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan
              with a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT DDO)


                                                  CONTENTS

 Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 21

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 22
Annex 2. Policy Areas, Prior Actions, Key Outcome Indicators and Achievements…24
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 27
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 27
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 28
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
Annex 8. Impact of Tropical Depression 12E in El Salvador………………………....40
Annex 9. Organizational Structure of the National System for Civil Protection and
Disaster Prevention and Mitigation, and the Civil Protection Directorate……………42
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Disaster Risk
                                                                              Management
Country:                 El Salvador                Program Name:
                                                                              Development Policy
                                                                              Loan with a CAT DDO
Program ID:              P122640                    L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-79970
ICR Date:                02/18/2015                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      DPL                        Borrower:
                                                                              EL SALVADOR
Original Total
                         USD 50.00M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 50.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 50.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process                Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:         09/02/2010       Effectiveness:             05/10/2011         05/24/2011
Appraisal:              12/07/2010       Restructuring(s):
Approval:               02/01/2011       Mid-term Review:           08/22/2011        08/22/20111
                                         Closing:                   08/31/2014         08/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                         Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing                       Not Applicable



1
  Because of the nature of the operation, a Mid-term Review was not conducted. The above actual Mid-
term Review date was recorded in the ISR filed in November 2011 and was pulled automatically from the
Portal into this Data Sheet.
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                                 Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 63                   63
Health                                                                 4                    4
Other social services                                                 33                   33


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           100                 100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          J. Humberto Lopez                    Laura Frigenti
Practice
                           Anna Wellenstein                     Guang Zhe Chen
Manager/Manager:
                                                                Armando Eduardo Guzman
Program Team Leader:       Ana Campos Garcia
                                                                Escobar
ICR Team Leader:           Ana Campos Garcia
ICR Primary Author:        Nancy Chaarani Meza
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall development objective of the proposed operation is to enhance the
Government of El Salvador's capacity to implement its Disaster Risk Management
Program for natural disasters.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                           Values (from                            Achieved at
    Indicator        Baseline Value                               Revised
                                              approval                       Completion or Target
                                                              Target Values
                                            documents)                                Years
                   The GoES is better prepared to respond to adverse natural events and Sectoral
Indicator 1 :
                   Emergency Response and other Plans are implemented in relevant situations.
                                                                            Enhanced response
                                                                            capacity as a result of
                                                                            the implementation of
Value                                                                       comprehensive
(quantitative or   Not established      Not established                     preparedness steps:
Qualitative)                                                                planning, organizing,
                                                                            equipping, training,
                                                                            simulation exercises,
                                                                            and evaluation.
Date achieved      02/28/2011           02/28/2011                          08/31/2014
                   Achieved. Multiple achievements in enhancing preparedness: National Plan
Comments
                   updated; 7 SERPs implemented; Contingency Plans approved, updated,
(incl. %
                   implemented, evaluated. Increases in staffing, equipment, training improved
achievement)
                   capacity at various territorial levels.
                   Public investment programs include specific activities to enhance risk
Indicator 2 :      prevention and mitigation as a result of the implementation of the 2010–2014
                   Development Plan.
                                                                            Public investments to
                                                                            enhance risk prevention
Value
                   0% of all                                                and mitigation in key
(quantitative or                        Not established
                   investments                                              sectors amounted to
Qualitative)
                                                                            approximately USD
                                                                            303 million.
Date achieved      02/28/2011           02/28/2011                          08/31/2014
                   Achieved. These achievements surpassed budgetary allocations of USD 173
Comments
                   million included in the 2010-2014 NDP for priority investments in
(incl. %
                   environmental and risk management. Achievements reported include
achievement)
                   investments by MARN, MOPTVDU, FOVIAL, MINED, MINSAL.
                   Consistent with the 2010–2014 Development Plan, key ministries have
Indicator 3 :      included risk analysis initiatives in their development plans, leading to a better
                   use of technical information on natural disasters.
Value
                                         At least 3
(quantitative or   1 Ministry                                             4 Ministries
                                         Ministries
Qualitative)
Date achieved      02/28/2011            02/28/2011                       08/31/2014

Comments           Surpassed. MARN, MOPTVDU, MINSAL, MINED have all incorporated
(incl. %           risk analysis in their work programs, including monitoring natural events and
achievement)       implementing activities related to risk assessment.




(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Not applicable

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                       IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     03/15/2011              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/03/2011              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    49.75
  3     10/03/2012              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    49.75
  4     06/08/2013              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    49.75
  5     12/27/2013              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    49.75
  6     06/19/2014              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    49.75


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Macroeconomic Policy Framework at Appraisal

1.      After a period of broad-based economic growth and structural reform, El
Salvador’s economy was severely hit by the global financial crisis in 2009. Until 2007, the
country’s sound macroeconomic management facilitated the transmission of positive global
growth, largely driven by cumulative export growth of 26.2 percent between 2002 and 2007.
However, the global financial crisis, in particular the recession in the United States and the
resulting sharp fall in remittances, lower private capital inflows, and reduced foreign demand,
caused El Salvador’s real GDP to contract by 3.5 percent in 2009. The slowdown hit all
sectors, with manufacturing, construction, and retail being the most affected. In addition,
agriculture output contracted due to Tropical Storm Ida in late 2009. External shocks also
impacted social outcomes. After falling to its lowest levels in 2006 (30.7 percent), the poverty
rate increased to 37.8 percent in 2009, while remittance flows dropped by 7.1 percent and the
number of registered jobs fell almost 4 percent in the period.

2.      In response to the economic slowdown, the Government of El Salvador (GoES)
prepared an ambitious Anti-Crisis Plan for 2009–11 and reached agreement on a Stand-
By Arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to manage the fiscal
implications of the crisis. The Anti-Crisis Plan in the amount of USD 587.5 million (2.8
percent of GDP) included actions to generate temporary jobs and increase the coverage of the
social security system, as well as funds for low-income housing, basic infrastructure,
improved nutrition, and violence mitigation to reduce the impact of the external shocks.
Despite government efforts to control expenditures, the costs of the stimulus package and a
significant drop in tax revenues resulting from the decline of economic activity increased the
debt-to-GDP ratio from 41.2 percent in 2008 to 50.4 percent in 2009. The deterioration of the
fiscal situation became the main source of macroeconomic concern, and in 2010 the GoES
approved a new fiscal strategy supported by an IMF Stand-By Arrangement to ensure
medium-term sustainability by significantly reducing the debt burden by 2015.

3.     At appraisal, El Salvador’s macroeconomic policy framework was deemed
adequate and its macroeconomic outlook was cautiously favorable for the medium run.
Economic indicators in 2010 suggested that the Salvadoran economy had started to recover
from the impact of the global crisis, albeit at a slow pace. There were positive growth trends
for exports and imports as well as workers’ remittances in 2010 but, at 0.7 percent, economic
growth still remained much below the values in the previous years and those in neighboring
countries. Moreover, the pace of recovery was tied to the dynamics of the United States
economy, which were still uncertain. However, fiscal policy remained prudent and on track
with the implementation of the program supported by the IMF. In addition, dollarization, an
important stabilization pillar, withstood the global financial crisis without major strains.




                                               1
Disaster Risk Management in El Salvador

4.     Over the past decades, disasters caused by natural events have regularly
disrupted El Salvador’s economic development and present a challenge to achieving the
dual goals of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity. El Salvador is
exposed to a variety of natural hazards, including hydro-meteorological and geophysical
hazards, and has a history of destructive earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tropical storms, and
droughts. It ranks second among countries with both the highest economic risk exposure to
two or more hazards as well as the highest percentage of total population at a relatively high
mortality risk2. Between 1972 and 2005, the country had nearly 6,500 deaths and an estimated
economic cost of more than USD 16 billion (2008 USD) due to disasters3. The last two major
earthquakes in January and February 2001 led to economic losses of USD 1.85 billion,
representing approximately 13% of El Salvador’s 2001 GDP. These earthquakes killed 1,159
people and affected 1.6 million people.4 Tropical Storm Ida in 2009 caused economic losses
that amounted to USD 315 million (or 1.4% of GDP) and affected more than three million
people.5

5.      Recognizing its high vulnerability to natural hazards, El Salvador has made
significant progress in strengthening its policy and institutional framework for disaster
risk management (DRM). Since 2005, the country has taken important steps towards a
sound DRM framework, gradually moving from emergency response to a more
comprehensive approach emphasizing the proactive reduction of disaster risks. The creation
of the National System for Civil Protection, Disaster Prevention and Mitigation in 2005 was a
key milestone to enhance the country’s disaster preparedness and emergency response
capacities. In order to improve the coordination of DRM activities, the Government also
adopted specific plans, most notably the Civil Protection, Disaster Prevention and Mitigation
National Plan, the National Seismic Contingency Plan, and seven Sectoral Emergency
Response Plans.

6.     Moreover, the GoES demonstrated its commitment to comprehensive disaster
risk management by including disaster risk reduction as one of the policy priorities in its
2010-2014 National Development Plan (Plan Quinquenal de Desarrollo 2010-2014 or
NDP) and earmarking budgetary resources to finance risk mitigation and prevention
investments. As part of its strategic priorities, the 2010-2014 NDP specifically incorporates
environmental protection, risk reduction, and climate change adaptation measures as
imperatives for poverty reduction and sustainable development. The NDP calls for ministries
to develop proactive policies for risk management and institutional strengthening for
environmental protection. In response, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources



2
  Dilley, M. et al. (2005). Natural disaster hotspots: A global risk analysis, Volume 1, Disaster Risk
Management Series No. 5, World Bank.
3
  ECLAC and Government of El Salvador (2009), El Salvador. Damage, Loss and Needs Assessment for
Disaster Recovery and Reconstruction after the low pressure system associated with Tropical Storm Ida
4
  EM-DAT database, http://www.emdat.be/database
5
  ECLAC and Government of El Salvador (2009), see above.



                                                      2
(MARN) prepared an Environmental and Risk Reduction Policy and set up a National
Program for Risk Reduction 2010-2014. In terms of budget, the GoES earmarked funding for
disaster risk mitigation for the 2010-2014 period in the NDP, and established a Civil
Protection, Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Fund (FOPROMID) to provide additional
funds for emergency management and post-disaster recovery purposes in particular.

Rationale for Bank’s Assistance

7.     The Bank acknowledged El Salvador’s commitment to improve its DRM
program had already been supporting the country’s efforts in this area. The 2010-2012
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) recognized the country’s high vulnerability to natural
hazards and explicitly included DRM under the first strategic objective to “strengthen
fundamentals for economic recovery by addressing macro and institutional vulnerabilities”.
The Bank’s engagement on DRM in El Salvador was in its early stages in 2010 when the
GoES requested support in the form of a Development Policy Loan with a Catastrophe
Deferred Drawdown Option (DPL with CAT DDO). This operation became an entry point in
the dialogue on DRM with the GoES, and complemented Bank investment projects and
technical assistance ongoing at that time (including an investment loan for Local Government
Strengthening, and technical assistance through the Central America Probabilistic Risk
Assessment (CAPRA) initiative, and the Tropical Storm Ida Damage, Loss, and Needs
Assessment).

8.     In February 2011, the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors approved the
Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan with a Catastrophe Deferred
Drawdown Option. The loan was declared effective on May 24, 2011. In line with El
Salvador’s efforts to consolidate its DRM agenda, the CAT DDO aimed to address the
country’s immediate liquidity needs following a disaster caused by a natural event, thus
enabling a quicker emergency response and helping to avoid redirecting limited budgetary
resources from other development programs.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

9.     The overall development objective of this operation was to enhance the
Government of El Salvador’s capacity to implement its Disaster Risk Management
Program for natural disasters. The following outcome indicators were presented in the
Program Document (PD) for monitoring and evaluation of the CAT DDO:
    The GoES is better prepared to respond to adverse natural events.
    Sectoral Emergency Response and other Plans are implemented in relevant situations.
    Public investment programs include specific activities to enhance risk prevention and
     mitigation as a result of the implementation of the 2010-2014 Development Plan.
    Consistent with the 2010-2014 Development Plan, key ministries (at least three) have
     included risk analysis initiatives in their development plans, leading to a better use of
     technical information on natural disasters to refine and guide investment programs to
     reduce vulnerability.




                                              3
10.      Although the PD listed the outcome indicators as presented above, throughout
implementation the first two indicators were tracked as a single combined indicator (“The
GoES is better prepared to respond to adverse natural events and Sectoral Emergency
Response Plans and other Plans are implemented in relevant situations”). This is consistent
from a conceptual point of view in the context of Policy Area 1 “Strengthening of the
Institutional and Legal Framework for Disaster Management” as emergency response plans
are one critical instrument to enhance a country’s preparedness to respond to disasters. As a
result, three outcome indicators were measured during the life of the program and evaluated in
this ICR.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

11.     The PDO and Key Indicators were not formally revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

12.    The DRM program of the CAT DDO aimed to support two strategic policy areas for
implementation of the Government’s program:
   Strengthening of the Institutional and Legal Framework for Disaster Management.
   Mainstreaming Disaster Risk in the National Development Plan and Investment
     Programs.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

13.       Policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

14.     No other significant changes were made to the Program.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

15.     The DPL with CAT DDO was a single tranche operation. The prior actions
included in the Policy Matrix of the PD were all fulfilled (see Table 1). The agreed drawdown
trigger to access the funds was a declaration of a State of Emergency by Legislative or
Executive Decree (the latter is prescribed by law in case the Legislative Assembly is not in
session), in accordance with Law 777, Art. 24 (Civil Protection Law of 2005).

Table 1. Policy Areas, Prior Actions and Status

Policy Areas    Agreed Prior Actions                                                                        Status
Strengthening   Updating of the Borrower’s Civil Protection, Disaster Prevention and Mitigation             Fulfilled
of the          National Plan, dated July 2009, to, inter alia, identify new risks and establish measures


                                                      4
Policy Areas       Agreed Prior Actions                                                                        Status
Institutional      to manage said risks, and publication of the same in the Civil Protection, Disaster
and Legal          Prevention and Mitigation General Direction’s website (www.proteccioncivil.gob.sv)
Framework for      (a) approval by the National Commission of the creation of seven Sectoral Emergency         Fulfilled
Disaster           Response Commissions, as evidenced in the National Commission Session Minutes
Management         (Acta de Sesión Extraordinaria), dated October 5, 2009; and
                   (b) submission for approval by the National Commission of seven Sectoral Emergency
                   Response Plans, as evidenced by letter sent by the president of the National
                   Commission to the National Commission members, dated November 30, 2010,
                   requesting a meeting on December 16, 2010 to, inter alia, approve the Sectoral
                   Emergency Response Plans
                   Approval by the National Commission of the National Seismic Contingency Plan                Fulfilled
                   (Plan Nacional de Contingencia para Terremotos), as evidenced in the National
                   Commission Session Minutes (Acta de Sesión Extraordinaria), dated October 5, 2009
                   Approval by the National Commission of the 2010 Rainy Season Plan (Plan Invernal            Fulfilled
                   2010), as evidenced in the National Commission Session Minutes (Acta de Sesión
                   Extraordinaria), dated May 7, 2010
Mainstreaming      Approval by the Borrower’s National Cabinet (Consejo de Ministros) of the 2010-             Fulfilled
Disaster Risk in   2014 Development Plan (Plan Quinquenal de Desarrollo), incorporating a disaster risk
the National       management component, as evidenced in the National Cabinet Session Minutes (Acta)
Development        of March 16, 2010
Plan and           Development of the National Program for Risk Reduction 2010-2012 (Programa                  Fulfilled
Investment         Nacional de Reducción de Riesgos 2010-2012), dated February, 2010, as evidenced by
Programs           letter sent by the Borrower’s Minister of Environment and National Resources, dated
                   December 3, 2010, attaching the National Program for Risk Reduction 2010-2012



16.     On October 14, 2011, a national state of emergency was declared by Executive
Decree No. 153 as a result of the impact of Tropical Depression 12E. This event hit El
Salvador from October 10 to 20, 2011 with a total accumulated rainfall of 1,500 mm in some
areas, surpassing levels experienced during Hurricane Mitch in 1998, and making Tropical
Depression 12E the most severe weather event recorded in the country 6 . Out of 262
municipalities, 181 (nearly 70%) were affected by heavy rains causing rivers to overflow,
severe flooding, and landslides. The death toll of Tropical Depression 12E rose to 35, and
over 56,000 people were forced to evacuate. The total population affected in some way by the
event was estimated at 1,424,091 people (54.7 percent of the country’s population). The value
of economic damages and losses caused by Tropical Depression 12E in El Salvador is
estimated at USD 902.46 million, which represents 4.25% of the country’s GDP in 2010 (for
more details, see Annex 8).

17.      In response to the impact caused by this event, the GoES withdrew the entire
amount of the DPL with CAT DDO in October 2011. The Government initially requested a
first disbursement in the amount of USD 25,000,000 on October 14, 2011, which the Bank
transferred on October 17, 2011. Realizing the extent of the damage caused by the event, the
Government requested the disbursement of the remaining amount of USD 24,750,000 on
October 24, 2011, which was transferred on October 27, 2011 (see Table 2). Both transfers


6
 ECLAC, IDB, United Nations, World Bank (2011). “Resumen regional del impacto de la Depresión Tropical 12E en
Centroamérica. Cuantificación de daños y pérdidas sufridos por los países de la región en el mes de octubre de 2011”.




                                                         5
were done in a timely manner largely due to the GoES’ understanding of the drawdown
conditions and steps they needed to take to request the DPL funds. The GoES expressed on
various occasions that the training the Bank team provided during program preparation was
instrumental in this sense.

Table 2. Disbursements of the DRM DPL with CAT DDO in El Salvador

Disbursement #          Amount*              Expected Release Date         Actual Release Date
Disbursement 1        USD 25,000,000            17 October 2011             17 October 2011
Disbursement 2        USD 24,750,000            27 October 2011             27 October 2011
(*The front-end-fee for the loan in the amount of US$ 250,000, which represents 0.5% of the total loan amount
of US$ 50,000,000, was paid to the Bank on May 24, 2011 using loan proceeds).

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

18.     High vulnerability to natural hazards and frequency of events highlighted the
importance of DRM in the country. El Salvador was hit by various natural events in the
years prior as well as during the execution of the operation, which affected the pace of
implementation of the country’s DRM Program. In particular, El Salvador was still recovering
from the impacts of Tropical Storm Ida (November 2009) and Tropical Storm Agatha (May
2010) during the design phase and was then hit by Tropical Depression 12E in October 2011,
which caused severe damage within the first months of implementation. The frequency of
natural events has brought attention to the importance of DRM mainstreaming at the sectoral
level and the improvement of response capacities.

19.    Strong GoES commitment was conducive to a positive dialogue on DRM during
implementation, despite an early disbursement of funds. In spite of the fact that CAT
DDO funds were fully disbursed five months after effectiveness, the GoES remained
committed to its DRM program throughout implementation. The leadership of the Ministry of
Finance and the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (STPP) was instrumental in the
convening of key agencies involved in DRM and the openness of the dialogue. This was
evidenced by the willingness of high-level officials of GoES agencies participating in the
operation to meet with the Bank as part of program supervision, and openly sharing
information on the progress of their DRM program. In addition, stability in terms of key
counterparts in the Ministry of Finance, MARN, the Civil Protection Directorate, and other
agencies both at the Ministerial, Director and technical levels throughout implementation
helped ensure the continuity of the dialogue.

20.    Market conditions and fiscal constraints limited the possibility of using the
revolving feature of the CAT DDO. Following the successful withdrawal of CAT DDO
funds in the aftermath of Tropical Depression 12E, and recognizing the importance of
immediate liquidity for emergency response, the Ministry of Finance expressed interest in




                                                      6
using the revolving feature of the CAT DDO7. At the time of withdrawal of funds, the GoES
selected automatic rate fixing, which meant that IBRD Treasury went to the market and
executed a swap in order to fix the lending rate of the CAT DDO. When the GoES sought to
pre-pay to make use of the revolving feature, market conditions were not favorable and the
cost of unwinding the swap to pre-pay USD 50 million amounted to USD 5.2 million as of
July 30, 20128. While interest rate fixing can be a desirable option for the Borrower, it can
have positive or negative consequences on the cost of pre-payment depending on market
fluctuations. The Bank team – including strong engagement by Treasury staff – monitored the
situation throughout implementation, and advised the Government when market conditions
were favorable for the country to use the revolving feature. At the time market conditions
became favorable in 2013, El Salvador’s fiscal situation had deteriorated further and the
country was no longer in a position to pre-pay the funds (even in part)9. Dialogue between the
Bank and the GoES on options for activating the revolving feature and possibly renewing the
DPL continued until the end of the program, but ultimately the revolving feature was not
activated.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

21. The CAT DDO would have benefited from a better definition of outcomes, outputs
and indicators to measure the achievement of the PDO. While the policy areas and prior
actions in Annex 2 of the PD are well described, the PD did not clearly outline the expected
outcomes and how these would be measured through SMART (specific, measurable,
attributable, realistic, timely bound) indicators. In particular, the lack of clear baselines and
targets for some of the indicators constituted a challenge when tracking progress during
implementation and assessing the achievement of the PDO. Only Indicator 3 included a clear
baseline and target. Establishing targets for Indicators 1 and 2 would have facilitated the
monitoring of the operation through Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR), and the
evaluation of the achievement of the PDO for this ICR.

22. Furthermore, there was no clear agreement between the Bank and the GoES from
the outset on the submission and content of consolidated progress reports to monitor
implementation of the CAT DDO. While the Loan Agreement states that “the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved, in
such details as the Bank shall reasonable request” (Article III – Program), there was no


7
  The revolving feature of the CAT DDO is the option for the Borrower to repay all or part of the funds prior to
the closing date, making funds available for subsequent drawdown in the case of another emergency prior to the
closing date. Amounts repaid are re-credited to the loan account and are treated as pre-payments. It is important
to point out that the revolving feature has not yet been used by any Borrower since the launch of this financial
instrument.
8
  Similarly, if the GoES had wanted to pre-pay only part of the loan funds at that time, the cost for unwinding the
swap to pre-pay USD 20 million and USD 10 million amounted to USD 2.08 million and USD 1.04 million,
respectively.
9
  Salvadoran economic growth remained sluggish and the current account balance deteriorated significantly since
the beginning of program implementation. El Salvador has been running large fiscal deficits over the last 5 years,
accumulating a debt-to-GDP ratio of more than 61% in 2013 (up from 50.4% in 2009).



                                                        7
agreement from the beginning on which Government agency was responsible for the
submission of these reports, neither on their periodicity and content. While the Bank obtained
detailed progress reports during implementation from each institution, these included overall
achievements in relation to DRM and did not always focus on the program indicators. The
lack of clarity of expectations on reporting from the outset created a challenge for the
consolidation of information provided by the GoES. Establishing a clear format for reporting
and prioritizing certain actions related to the achievement of the PDO would have facilitated
monitoring and program evaluation.

23. To overcome these shortcomings, in 2013 the Bank started institutionalizing
“implementation review workshops” as part of supervision to monitor progress and
record achievements in ISRs. These supervision missions and workshops were held twice a
year led by the Ministry of Finance, and included the participation of up to five
representatives of each of the relevant agencies including the Civil Protection Directorate,
STPP, and key line Ministries, namely MARN, the Ministry of Public Works, Transport,
Housing, and Urban Development (MOPTVDU), the Ministry of Health (MINSAL) and the
Ministry of Education (MINED). This approach proved to be appropriate to regularly monitor
progress of the operation and record results in Aide Memoires and ISRs, as evidenced by the
high turnout of participants from all agencies, their active engagement, and positive feedback.
The workshops also created a platform for these institutions to share detailed information and
progress on DRM with one another through the end of the operation, despite the full
disbursement of funds soon after effectiveness.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

24.     Aware of its fiscal exposure to disasters triggered by natural events10, the GoES
expressed interest in a second DPL with CAT DDO in the future. The GoES has
submitted to the Legislative Assembly for approval a new operation with the Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) regarding a contingent loan of approximately USD
50 million, of similar nature to the Bank’s DPL with CAT DDO. Complementarily, the
Minister of Finance has expressed willingness to continue the dialogue with the Bank and
request a second DPL with CAT DDO, if possible, in the future.

25.     The CAT DDO became a useful entry point for a comprehensive disaster risk
financing and insurance (DRFI) strategy, and in the context of a regional COSEFIN11
initiative, the GoES has expressed interest in joining the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk
Insurance Facility Segregated Portfolio Company (CCRIF SPC). A comprehensive
disaster risk financing approach should combine several instruments: (i) budget allocations
and reserves for natural events that occur frequently but have a minor impact (e.g. localized


10
   Average annual losses from earthquakes amount to USD 308.8 million, 1.27 % of El Salvador’s 2013 GDP,
according to the CCRIF Country Risk Profile for El Salvador; World Bank World Development Indicators.
11
   The COSEFIN is the Council of Ministers of Finance of Central America, Panama, and the Dominican
Republic. The seven countries that are part of the COSEFIN are Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama.



                                                    8
floods); (ii) contingent credits (such as the DPL with CAT DDO) for medium-impact events
that occur less frequently; and (iii) risk transfer instruments like parametric risk insurance to
protect against less-frequent, high-impact events (e.g. major earthquakes, tropical cyclones).
By joining the CCRIF SPC, El Salvador will be able to purchase parametric insurance
coverage akin to consequential loss insurance, which will provide immediate liquidity in the
aftermath of an insured natural event.

26.    The Bank will support El Salvador towards the formulation of a comprehensive
DRFI strategy and the selection of financial instruments through targeted technical
assistance. A Multi-Donor Trust Fund has been established within the Bank for the provision
of technical assistance to Ministries of Finance in Central America and the Caribbean to help
countries understand their respective contingent liabilities as well as the financial protection
instruments available to them and their complementarities with CCRIF SPC coverage.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

27.     Program objectives, design and implementation remain consistent with El
Salvador’s current development priorities, showing a high relevance of the DPL with
CAT DDO. The design of the operation was done in close coordination with the GoES and
based on sound analytical underpinnings to ensure the relevance of the policy areas identified
in the PD, namely the strengthening of the institutional and legal framework for disaster
management and the mainstreaming of DRM in the 2010-2014 NDP and investment programs.
During the preparation of this ICR, the GoES also highlighted the high relevance of the
objectives of the CAT DDO in terms of advancing the country’s DRM program, and its
innovative nature during implementation in terms of providing quick access to liquidity
following Tropical Depression 12E. In addition, the GoES’ efforts towards the further
consolidation of its DRM program will continue in the overall policy context of the 2014-
2019 NDP, which builds on the 2010-2014 NDP, including the reduction of environmental
and socioeconomic vulnerability to climate change and natural events as one of its objectives.

28.      The DPL with CAT DDO was fully consistent with the Bank’s strategy in El
Salvador at the time of design, and the instrument remains highly relevant. The 2010-
2012 CPS, which was extended until 2014 because of the relevance of its development goals,
and to coincide with the political cycle, explicitly included the strengthening of DRM under
its first strategic objective. The CPS specifically mentioned the possibility of a DPL with
CAT DDO to provide a source of immediately available liquidity during a state of emergency,
given the country’s natural disaster risk profile and fiscal challenges. DRM is also expected
to be an integral part of the upcoming Country Partnership Framework (CPF) with El
Salvador, which is due in 2015. The operation is also complementary with ongoing and
planned Bank activities in El Salvador and in the Central American region, including the
dialogue with the CCRIF SPC in relation to parametric risk insurance coverage, Trust Fund-
financed engagements with the Coordination Center for the Prevention of Natural Disasters in
Central America (CEPREDENAC) to develop technical capacities for emergency response, and
support for decision-making based on disaster risk assessment through the CAPRA initiative.



                                               9
3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

29.    Overall, the DRM DPL with CAT DDO has contributed to enhancing the
Government of El Salvador’s capacity to implement its Disaster Risk Management
program for natural disasters. The operation provided a platform to strengthen the DRM
policy dialogue in the country and with the Bank, and fostered inter-institutional information
sharing, coordination, and mainstreaming at sectoral level towards a systemic risk
management approach at all territorial levels.

30.     While the results framework had shortcomings regarding the definition of
baselines and targets as outlined earlier, the operation’s areas of action and indicators
cover the fundamental elements of a sound DRM program 12 and form the basis for
assessing the achievement of the PDO. The outcomes under each of the three indicators are
discussed below. Annex 2 provides a summary of the progress achieved as of the closing date
of the operation.

Area of Action 1: Strengthening of the institutional and legal framework for disaster
management

Indicator 1: The GoES is better prepared to respond to adverse natural events and Sectoral
Emergency Response and other Plans are implemented in relevant situations.

31.     In an effort to strengthen the capacity to cope with natural events through its National
System of Civil Protection, Disaster Prevention and Mitigation (the National System, see
Annex 9 for its organizational structure), the GoES has implemented a comprehensive
approach that covers all the steps of the preparedness cycle: planning, organizing, equipping,
training and undertaking simulation exercises, and evaluating/improving.

32.     The National System guides its activities through different planning instruments
at the national and local levels, most notably the Civil Protection, Disaster Prevention
and Mitigation National Plan (the National Plan). The main objective of the National Plan
is to define the actions of the state and civil society in risk management, vulnerability
assessment and mitigation, disaster preparedness and response (see Civil Protection Law of
2005, Law No. 777, Article 20). The National Plan was first approved by the National
Commission in 2006, updated in 200913, and further revised in 2011 and 2012. Over the years,
it has evolved from a disaster-centered instrument to the adoption of a more comprehensive
disaster risk management approach. The 2012 version of the National Plan has not yet been
approved and was under review by the National Commission to avoid overlap with MARN’s
National Program for Risk Reduction. The 2012 version of the National Plan is nevertheless
being implemented with regard to preparedness and response activities.


12
   The Sendai Report (World Bank and GFDRR, 2012) outlines the five pillars of a disaster risk management
framework as: (i) risk identification; (ii) risk reduction; (iii) preparedness; (iv) financial protection; and (v)
planning for disaster recovery.
13
   The 2009 update of the National Plan was one of the prior actions for this DPL with CAT DDO.



                                                         10
33.     The National Plan presents the guiding principles that enable all response
partners to prepare for and provide a unified national response to disasters and
emergencies. The seven Sectoral Emergency Response Plans (SERP) - for Emergency
Services, Infrastructure and Basic Services, Health, Logistics, Security, Shelters, and Techno-
Scientific - were approved in 2010 and effectively complement the allocation of
responsibilities and scope of the response tasks. For types of events associated with natural
and anthropogenic phenomena, significant efforts have been made to develop, update,
disseminate, and implement contingency plans14, which have been used by the Commissions
over the past few years. In particular, the National Seismic Contingency Plan was approved in
2010 and National Rainy Season Plan has been updated once a year (between 2010 and 2014)
and implemented during rainy periods. These updates build on the implementation of this
Plan during the previous years and have helped to identify vulnerable areas and prioritize
activities based on historic data and models.

34.     The increase in human and technical resources through the organization of
Commissions and the provision of equipment has enhanced response capabilities at
different territorial levels. At the national level, the seven Sectoral Emergency Response
Commissions 15 organized around the same tasks, as the SERPs have held coordination
meetings since their creation in October 2009, and have involved government agencies,
including line ministries, and NGOs in emergency response. To foster and encourage
participation and decentralization, the Civil Protection Directorate increased its staff from 33
to 233 between 2011 and 2014 at different territorial levels. In this context, the numbers of
Municipal and Community Commissions also increased from 202 to 262 and from 990 to
2,730 respectively during program implementation. To complement territorial capabilities,
training activities to guide the formulation of Civil Protection Plans and communication
equipment have been provided to Municipal and Community Commissions, delivering 40
Municipal Plans, 1650 emergency kits, and increasing communication radios from 34 to 464.

35.    The GoES’ comprehensive approach in terms of preparedness activities, diversity
and number of plans (programmatic, operational – by sectors, by type of event), and
coordination committees (at community, local, regional, and national levels) contributed to
an enhanced capacity to respond to emergencies. These efforts have been evaluated
following their implementation in real events and through simulation exercises that generate a
summary document (damage report, response actions performed, conclusions and
recommendations), which is published after the activation of each contingency plan 16 .
Improvements in response capacity can be evidenced by the reduction of the evacuation time
of the population in tsunami-prone areas of La Libertad from 20 minutes to 15 minutes, as



14
   Contingency plans include the National Rainy Season Plan, the National Seismic Contingency Plan, the
Summer Season Plan, the “Divino Salvador Plan” (national holiday in August), the “Belen” Plan (Christmas
season), and the epidemic (dengue) Plan, among others.
15
   Approval by the National Commission of the creation of seven Sectoral Emergency Response Commissions
was one of the prior actions for this DPL with CAT DDO.
16
   Directorate of Civil Protection http://190.122.177.82/~dgpc/



                                                  11
reported after the simulation drill of the National Seismic Contingency Plan in 2013. In
addition, the capacity to shelter people in flood-prone areas was proven during the rainy
season in May 2014, when the Departmental Commission of Civil Protection of San Miguel
and the Municipal Commissions of Chinameca, San Jorge, San Rafael and San Miguel
activated and implemented their contingency plans. Considering the high risk conditions, the
Directorate of Civil Protection evacuated 259 families to shelters. Families received lease
subsidies for six months and a commission was created to initiate a relocation process, in
coordination with the National Housing Fund (FONAVIPO).

36.    The emergency response capacity has also been accompanied with improvements
in the implementation of recovery activities. The Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Committee (RRC) led by STPP and the Ministry of Finance was created as a permanent body
in November 200917. Since then, it has become an effective government body in coordinating
reconstruction efforts and channeling communications with the President of El Salvador,
relevant ministries and institutions, and overseeing rehabilitation and reconstruction
programs18.

37.    While a comprehensive approach to strengthening institutional capacities for
disaster response is important, the establishment of the Secretariat for Vulnerability
Affairs (SAV) in January 2011 under the Presidency of the Republic, and the Standing
Forum for Vulnerability Reduction 19 in February 2013, were also significant
achievements towards the strengthening of the institutional framework in El Salvador.
The Executive Director of the Civil Protection Directorate, who was designated as the first
Secretary of the SAV, took on the complementary role of assisting the President of the
Republic on policies and actions to reduce vulnerability and promote risk reduction.
Nonetheless, continued efforts are still required for the SAV to become an effective promoter
of DRM at all levels.


Area of Action 2: Mainstreaming Disaster Risk in the National Development Plan and
Investment Programs

38.    The approval of the 2010-2014 NDP in March 2010 was instrumental for the
mainstreaming of DRM in the country’s overall development agenda for this period. In
the broader context of poverty reduction and sustainable development, the NDP provided a
framework for environmental and risk reduction policies and climate change adaptation


17
   Executive Decree No. 89 issued in the Presidential House on November 26, 2009, and published in the
Official Gazette, volume 385, number 223, dated November 27, 2009.
18
   Selection criteria for rehabilitation and reconstruction projects and resource allocation were developed and
undertaken by the RRC in the aftermath of Tropical Depression 12E, for instance.
19
   The Forum is sponsored by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR), the United
Nations system in El Salvador and CEPREDENAC. Between 2013 and 2014, the Forum has held seven capacity
building - oriented meetings in accordance with the guidelines of the National Plan, with strong engagement of
the regional and local Directorates of Civil Protection.




                                                      12
measures, and also emphasized the importance of enhancing risk prevention and mitigation in
sectors. Indicator 2 describes the amount of resources invested in risk prevention and
mitigation in sectors, while Indicator 3 outlines the initiatives undertaken by key line
ministries to support risk prevention actions.

Indicator 2: Public investment programs include specific activities to enhance risk prevention
and mitigation as a result of the implementation of the 2010-2014 Development Plan.
(Baseline: 0% of all investments; Target: not established) 20

39.  Public investments to enhance risk prevention and mitigation in key sectors
amounted to approximately USD 303 million21 over the period 2009-201422:

        MARN invested more than USD 17.3 million in disaster risk reduction activities, such
         as improvements in risk identification, enhancing early warning systems, integrating a
         risk reduction approach in public investments and community awareness activities. This
         represented nearly 30% of overall MARN budget in this period.

        MINED invested approximately USD 98.7 million in rehabilitation and/or construction
         of school buildings as well as repairs (including damages resulting from storms) that
         incorporated disaster risk mitigation measures.

        MOPTVDU invested a total of USD 76.1 million in the implementation of 119 projects,
         such as works for landslide and flood prevention and mitigation, river drainage
         improvements, and retrofitting of existing bridges, among others.

        The Road Conservation Fund (Fondo de Conservación Vial or FOVIAL) implemented
         roads infrastructure mitigation and protection projects in the amount of approximately
         USD 19.2 million.




20
   The percentage of risk prevention and mitigation investments in relation with total expenditures could not be
verified since the National Public Investment System does not include a budgetary classifier that allows a
detailed tracking of risk prevention and mitigation activities. In addition, the baseline was not accurate since
there were ongoing investments at the moment of the formulation of the PD.
21
   The 2010-2014 NDP included budgetary allocations in the amount of USD 590 million under Strategic Area 3
“Sustainable Development”, of which USD 173 million were earmarked for priority investments in
environmental and risk management over this period. Actual investments in key sectors amounting to
approximately USD 303 million therefore surpassed the budgetary allocations included in the NDP.
22
   To consolidate the information, the ICR team used the individual reports that were provided by participating
line ministries and agencies and included the amounts invested in prevention and mitigation activities during the
June 2009 to July 2014 presidential administration. The national budget for 2010-2014 amounted to
approximately USD 22 billion. USD 303 million represents 13/1000 of the total budget, which demonstrates a
strong commitment. As a comparison, for example, 5/1000 is the fixed ratio of investment in disaster risk
management of cities such as Bogota, Colombia, which is considered to be outstanding.




                                                       13
        Finally, MINSAL invested over USD 306 million in the (re)construction of
         infrastructure (hospitals and health centers) and hospital equipment. According to
         MINSAL, 30% of these investments were related to mitigation measures.

Indicator 3: Consistent with the 2010–2014 Development Plan, key ministries have included
risk analysis initiatives in their development plans, leading to a better use of technical
information on natural disasters to refine and guide investment programs to reduce
vulnerability. (Baseline: one Ministry; Target: At least three Ministries)

40.     Four line ministries have taken an active role in monitoring natural events and
implementing activities related to risk assessment between 2010 and 2014. Of these,
MARN has been the most active agency, in the context of the execution of its National
Program for Risk Reduction 2010-2014. Scientific and technological advances achieved by
MARN during implementation have greatly improved El Salvador's capability to monitor
natural hazards in real time and disseminate early warnings, especially at the local level.
Seismic, hydrological and meteorological monitoring networks were expanded during the
program implementation period to strengthen hazard monitoring capabilities, including a
tripling of the total number of stations (an increase from 95 to 267 in the period 2009-2014).
The operation of the Integrated Hazard Monitoring Center within MARN’s Directorate
General for Environmental Observatory to broadcast weather conditions, hydrological,
oceanographic, volcanological, seismic, and geological information has been instrumental to
this end. Real time monitoring screens were installed in seven ministries, fourteen
departments and 88 municipalities to transmit the information received in the Integrated
Hazard Monitoring Center in real time (24/7) for decision making. Training sessions for the
interpretation of this information were carried out in 2013.

41.     MARN complemented monitoring capacity with detailed hazard and
vulnerability assessments and the promotion of disaster risk information as the basis for
land use planning and the identification of risk reduction actions at the local level.
LIDAR 23 images for the entire territory of El Salvador were taken as a base for risk
assessments. Between 2010 and 2014, vulnerability studies and hazard maps for flooding,
landslides, and coastal erosion were undertaken for 50% of El Salvador’s territory, including
60 municipal vulnerability studies for specific localities. Environmental zoning and land use
guidelines were also approved in 2013. Technical information and data and generated by
MARN are used by various ministries and agencies, including MOPTVDU, to guide
investments.

42.   MOPTVDU has made important progress since 2011 in the incorporation of risk
management considerations in the Ministry’s core agenda. In particular, the Directorate
for Adaptation to Climate Change and Strategic Risk Management (DACGER) was


23
  LIDAR is a remote sensing technology that measures distance by illuminating a target with a laser and
analyzing the reflected light. It is used as a technology to make high-resolution maps, with applications in
geology, geomorphology, seismology, remote sensing, atmospheric physics, laser altimetry, and contour
mapping.



                                                        14
established in 2010 and became fully functional in 2012 as a DRM technical entity
responsible for incorporating risk considerations in public investment processes to avoid
investments in risk prone areas and foster risk mitigation. DACGER implemented activities
such as: (i) standardizing the evaluation of landslide risk through the development of
guidelines (used during 2012-2014 in the development of the inventory of areas with stability
problems that affect roads); (ii) developing guidelines for the assessment of the vulnerability
of bridges to hydro-meteorological events (validated through the inspection of 126 bridges
between 2013 and 2014); and (iii) formulating guidelines for the prioritization of works in
highways and for the design of bridges taking into account climate change adaptation
measures.

43.      MINSAL has incorporated the concept of Safe Hospitals designed by the Pan-
American Health Organization (PAHO) to retrofit six, and build two new hospitals in
addition to the implementation of the Hospital Safety Index24 to evaluate 98% of the 30
national hospitals and 223 Health Community Centers. Through the Hospital Safety Index,
MINSAL determined that 3% of hospitals needed immediate and 36% needed medium term
interventions respectively. This quick overview gave MINSAL25 a solid starting point for
establishing priorities and reducing risk and vulnerability in healthcare facilities. Health
facilities have now established maintenance and monitoring processes for buildings that had
not had safety interventions in 30 years and have planned follow-up actions to improve safety
in the medium term.

44.     MINED undertook a similar exercise during the implementation period to
evaluate the safety of school buildings using the School Safety Index in the Metropolitan
Area of San Salvador, establishing that 548 schools are exposed to landslides, and 289 to
flooding. Complementarily, and in coordination with MARN, 1,050 school buildings26 were
evaluated using the CAPRA methodology, finding that 40% of them do not meet seismic
standards. In addition, MINED has finalized the geo-referencing of the total portfolio of
schools in the country (6,035 in 2014, including 923 private schools). The inventory and
safety scoring has been an important step towards the evaluation of the risk exposure of
schools and has become the basis for the Ministry and departmental and municipal education
offices to develop maintenance and risk reduction plans and prioritize investments.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

45.    The Overall Outcome of this DPL with CAT DDO is rated Satisfactory. The
operation’s objectives, design and implementation, as well as outcomes were relevant to El


24
   The Hospital Safety Index provides a snapshot of the probability that a hospital or health facility will continue
to function in emergency situations, based on structural, nonstructural, and functional factors, including the
environment and the health services network to which it belongs. The Hospital Safety Index does not replace
costly and detailed vulnerability studies. However, because it is relatively inexpensive and easy to apply, it is an
important first step toward prioritizing a country’s investments in hospital safety.
25
   http://hsgeo.salud.gob.sv/
26
   This represents 20% of the inventory of school buildings in the Metropolitan Area of San Salvador.



                                                        15
Salvador’s development agenda, as outlined in the 2010-2014 NDP. The operation’s
relevance is further evidenced by the inclusion of DRM in the NDP for 2014-2019 and the
consistency of the operation with the Bank’s strategy with El Salvador.

46.    The evaluation of the program’s performance through this ICR shows there has
been considerable progress in the advancement of the country’s DRM program and
enhanced DRM capacity of the GoES since 2011. The progress achieved throughout
implementation shows a satisfactory achievement of the PDO, especially in terms of
enhancing the GoES’ disaster response capacity at all territorial levels, mainstreaming DRM
in sectors and creating synergies among participating institutions. Finally, the CAT DDO
provided a timely and efficient source of liquidity in the aftermath of Tropical Depression
12E, which was instrumental for disaster recovery.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

47.     The DPL with CAT DDO indirectly supported El Salvador’s most vulnerable
population by strengthening the country’s DRM framework and providing quick access
to liquidity in the event of a natural event, thereby contributing to a faster emergency
response and avoiding disruptions to service delivery to the poor, in particular. In the
aftermath of a disaster, funding for public and social services tends to be diverted from social
and investment programs to finance emergency response and the subsequent recovery process.
The CAT DDO provided immediate liquidity so that social program disruption was not
needed. World Bank research also indicates that disasters disproportionately affect the poor,
often living in precarious settlements in risk-prone areas, and women in particular27.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

48.     The CAT DDO has been instrumental in fostering institutional strengthening
with regards to DRM, gradually moving from a vision that emphasizes emergency
response to a more comprehensive approach of proactive risk reduction, and through the
creation of units or offices responsible for disaster risk management in key line ministries and
agencies. MARN has played a leading role in the area of DRM and climate change with a
strong emphasis on risk knowledge, risk reduction, and institutional strengthening, in
particular through the Directorate General for Environmental Observatory. The creation of the
Secretariat of Vulnerability Affairs (SAV) in 2011 under the Presidency of the Republic, the
creation of the DACGER within the MOPTVDU, and the establishment of the Unit of Fiscal



27
  Disasters have led to substantial drops in household consumption per capita, compelling the poor to decrease
calorie consumption, sell vital assets, work longer hours, and pull children out of school. Similarly, women tend
to experience higher rates of mortality, morbidity, and diminishment in livelihoods post-disaster than men. See
for instance: Baez, Genoni, Lucchetti and Salazar, 2013: Quantifying the value of risk management for poverty
reduction and boosting shared prosperity, World Bank and EAP DRM Knowledge Notes No. 24: Making
women’s voices count in natural disaster programs in EAP.



                                                       16
Risks in the Ministry of Finance also represented significant achievements in strengthening
the long term institutional framework for DRM in El Salvador. In addition, MARN,
DACGER, and other line ministries have developed and used important instruments, such as
the risk assessment tools and guidelines mentioned in relation to Indicator 3 among others,
which have promoted informed decision making, guided investments, and improved
institutional capacity.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

49.     The following risks to development outcomes of the program have been identified
at the time of the ICR, and are considered to be low overall:

    Political and institutional capacity risks. During the lifetime of the operation, the
     institutional capacity of participating Government agencies and ministries was
     strengthened, and DRM was successfully mainstreamed into the operations of four line
     ministries. The GoES remains committed to reducing the country’s vulnerabilities to
     natural hazards and fostering a culture of risk reduction, as evidenced by the inclusion of
     DRM and climate change adaptation in the 2014-2019 NDP, as well as in sectoral plans.
     While, there has been stability of both political representatives and technical staff in the
     government administration which has guaranteed the continuity of institutional capacity,
     increased efforts are still required for an effective institutional articulation and
     implementation of disaster resilience and climate change adaptation strategies.

    Fiscal risks. Despite the country’s tight fiscal situation, the GoES has invested
     considerable amounts into improving the understanding of risk, disaster risk reduction,
     emergency response, and disaster-resilient reconstruction. Nonetheless, considering the
     country’s sustained large fiscal deficit, the macroeconomic situation continues to present
     a factor of vulnerability for El Salvador. A risk remains that resources could be diverted
     away from preventive DRM activities and that the GoES will need to redirect resources
     from existing development programs towards emergency response in case of a severe
     natural event. However, this risk is being mitigated through the efforts of the GoES
     towards establishing a comprehensive DRFI strategy with the support of the Bank’s
     technical assistance, the ongoing dialogue with JICA to obtain a contingent loan similar
     to the CAT DDO, and the intention to participate in CCRIF SPC to access parametric
     risk insurance coverage.




                                              17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
   Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

50.    The DPL with CAT DDO was consistent with the Government’s priorities and
deepened the Bank’s engagement on DRM in El Salvador. Following a close dialogue
between the Bank and the GoES on the country’s DRM needs, the Bank promptly addressed
the formal request from the GoES for a DPL with CAT DDO in July 2010 and formulated the
operation in close coordination with the Government for timely Board approval in February
2011 and effectiveness in May 2011.

51.     The Bank provided sound technical assistance to the GoES throughout the
lending phase to ensure a good understanding of the instrument. The DPL with CAT
DDO was a relatively new financial product in 2010 and the Bank’s multi-sectoral team
(including DRM specialists and Treasury staff) worked with the GoES at entry to explain the
nature of the product, drawdown triggers, and how to request withdrawal of funds. This
support early on in the operation was recognized by the GoES, and was instrumental in the
timely withdrawal of funds when Tropical Depression 12E hit the country in October 2011, a
few months after effectiveness.

52.    Quality at entry would have been enhanced with a stronger results framework to
measure the achievement of the PDO. While the two areas of action supported by the
operation and prior actions were adequately identified and consistent with the Government’s
program, the Bank could have improved quality at entry by designing a more specific results
framework including clear outcome indicators with baselines and measurable targets to track
progress towards achieving the PDO.

(b) Quality of Supervision
    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

53.     Supervision took place on a regular basis, and the Bank team kept an open
dialogue with the GoES throughout implementation. The Bank also acted promptly
following the GoES’ requests for disbursement of CAT DDO funds. The information
presented in Aide Memoires and ISRs provides evidence of the Bank’s close supervision with
one to two missions a year and a multi-disciplinary team including DRM and Treasury
specialists. In addition, the Bank’s team and systems were well prepared to handle withdrawal
requests for CAT DDO funds, which enabled timely transfers of funds to the GoES.

54.    The Bank team’s initiative to organize periodic implementation review
workshops during the latter half of the operation was a highly successful strategy in
bringing counterparts together for progress monitoring. Nevertheless, the Bank could
have set targets for monitoring of progress towards the achievements of the PDO during
implementation. In addition, the Bank did not set clear expectations with the GoES early on



                                             18
regarding the periodicity and content of consolidated progress reports to be submitted, which
created a challenge for monitoring.

55.     The Bank worked closely with the GoES throughout implementation in relation
to the activation of the revolving feature, related costs, and renewal options of the CAT
DDO. Despite the fact that the revolving feature of the CAT DDO was not activated for
reasons related to unfavorable market conditions as outlined in section 2.2, the Bank team
(including a strong engagement of Treasury staff) provided technical assistance and clarified
available options to the GoES as part of supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

56.     Overall Bank Performance is rated moderately satisfactory given the moderately
satisfactory performance of the Bank in ensuring quality at entry, and during program
supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
    Rating: Not applicable. (The Government and the Implementing Agency were the same).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

57.     Overall Borrower Performance is rated satisfactory. The GoES showed
satisfactory commitment to the operation, and to the implementation of its DRM program
during the design phase and implementation, with positive results as presented earlier. In
particular, it is important to note the following:
   The GoES was very engaged during the design phase of the operation, despite the
      newness of the financial product. The policy areas and prior actions were identified as a
      result of a close dialogue with the GoES and in line with the 2010-2014 NDP, thus
      ensuring the relevance of the operation for the country.
   Following the declaration of a state of emergency because of Tropical Depression 12E,
      the GoES acted promptly to access CAT DDO funds through two separate withdrawal
      requests and provided necessary documentation, which in turn ensured a timely transfer
      of funds to the GoES to respond to the emergency.
   Recognizing the importance of immediate liquidity to safeguard against the impacts of
      natural events, the GoES tried to make use of the revolving feature of the CAT DDO
      and engaged with the Bank soon after the disbursement of CAT DDO funds to explore
      options.
   The program would have benefited from the submission by the GoES of consolidated
      progress reports to guarantee consistency in the structure and the level of detail provided
      across the different participating agencies.


                                               19
    Nevertheless, the GoES remained committed to its DRM program and engaged with the
     Bank through the various implementation review workshops undertaken during
     implementation, which proved to be an effective platform for progress monitoring. This
     is evidenced by the active participation of the Ministry of Finance, the Civil Protection
     Directorate/SAV, STPP, MARN, MOPTVDU, MINSAL, and MINED. The engagement
     of the line ministries is particularly important to note, and highlights the achievements in
     terms of mainstreaming DRM to sectors during the life of the operation.
    While there is a need to continue efforts towards the further consolidation of the
     country’s DRM program, the GoES’ performance is deemed satisfactory in the context
     of this operation.

6. Lessons Learned

58.     Given the innovative nature of the DPL with CAT DDO, there has been extensive
reporting of lessons learned over the past few years since the development of this
financial product. The specific experience of the DPL with CAT DDO in El Salvador
reinforces lessons previously documented:

59.     The effectiveness of the CAT DDO as a source of liquidity after an emergency
depends on the detailed identification of the procedures and responsibilities of the
Borrower and the Bank to trigger and process the disbursement. As evidenced in the
context of the CAT DDO in El Salvador, the detailed discussions and agreements early on in
the operation of the steps related with (i) the declaration of a state of emergency, (ii) the
decision-making process to activate the CAT DDO, (iii) the necessary documentation to
request the disbursement from the Bank, and (iv) the process to incorporate the resources in
the national budget, were instrumental to ensure the availability of resources as quickly as
possible (in the case of El Salvador, CAT DDO funds were transferred three days following
each withdrawal request from Government).

60.    The policy dialogue on DRM could be made more efficient by improving the
indicators of the policy matrix. As a DPL, the ultimate goal of the CAT DDO is to support
governments in implementing reforms to improve their overall DRM policy and institutional
framework. The impact of the reform program is closely related with the quality of the policy
matrix, which should include SMART outcome indicators with baselines and specific
measurable targets, given their importance for the quality of the policy dialogue. The way
policy matrices of CAT DDOs are formulated has evolved over time, with new operations
now placing more emphasis on this aspect during preparation.

61.    Reporting responsibilities and monitoring arrangements should be agreed with
the Borrower in the early stages of the operation to improve the effectiveness and
monitoring of the policy measures supported by the DPL. In the case of El Salvador, the
submission of consolidated written progress reports would have helped ensure consistency in
the quality and level of detail provided across the participating institutions. To facilitate
implementation, Loan Agreements and Program Documents should also be more specific in
terms of reporting responsibilities and the periodicity of reports to be submitted by the
Borrower to the Bank. Operational manuals that specify monitoring and reporting


                                              20
arrangements, in addition to outlining all procedures and responsibilities related to triggering,
disbursing and repaying loan funds should be considered for future CAT DDOs.

62.     Close Bank supervision is also important to support a successful policy dialogue
and DRM outcomes. While the CAT DDO is a financial instrument that aims to provide
liquidity in the aftermath of a disaster, it is equally important to provide support to the
Borrower throughout the life of the program to enhance the country’s capacity to implement
its DRM program. In the case of El Salvador, the implementation review workshops were an
effective supervision strategy to compensate for the shortcomings of the results framework.

63.     Finally, the Bank should aim to ensure that the Borrower understands the
financial aspects of the CAT DDO instrument, and the consequences of the different
options available in relation to interest rates, repayment, and renewal. For example,
while options such as interest rate fixing may be appropriate, it is important that Borrowers
understand that they can have positive or negative consequences at the time of pre-payment
depending on market fluctuations. The involvement of Treasury staff on the Bank’s side and
the continued dialogue with the Borrower on the financial aspects of the product is crucial at
all stages of the operation (and especially in situations where Government counterparts
change during implementation), and proved helpful in the case of El Salvador for the
Government’s decision making.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

64.   The Government and the Implementing Agency were the same. A validation
workshop of the draft Bank ICR was held in San Salvador on February 3, 2015 to collect
GoES comments on the document. The Aide Memoire summarizing the discussion during the
workshop can be found in Annex 5. No major comments made or issues were raised by the
Borrower on the Bank ICR.




                                               21
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Armando Eduardo Guzman        Senior Disaster Risk Management
                                                                GSURR TTL
Escobar                       Specialist
Yoonhee Kim                   Senior Urban Economist            GSURR Co-TTL
Luis Corrales                 Disaster Risk Management STC      GWADR DRM
                              Senior Disaster Risk Management
Jose C. Joaquin Toro Landivar                                   GSURR DRM
                              Specialist
Ana Maria Torres              Disaster Risk Management STC      GSURR DRM
                              Senior Financial Management
Antonio Leonardo Blasco                                         GGODR FM
                              Specialist
Barbara Cunha                 Senior Economist                  GMFDR Procurement
Jimena Garrote                Senior Counsel                    LEGLE Legal
                              Senior Disaster Risk Management
Osmar Eleazar Velasco Lopez                                     GSURR DRM
                              STC
Violeta Wagner                Senior Program Assistant          GWADR Operations
Olivier Mahul                 Program Manager                   GFMDR Peer Reviewer
                              Senior Disaster Risk Management
Michel Matera                                                   GSURR Peer Reviewer
                              Specialist
                                                                        Peer Reviewer /
Ricardo Antonio Tejada       Program Manager                    TRECS
                                                                        Treasury

Supervision
                             Senior Disaster Risk Management
Ana Campos Garcia                                               GSURR TTL and ICR TTL
                             Specialist
Armando Eduardo Guzman       Senior Disaster Risk Management
                                                                GSURR TTL
Escobar                      Specialist
Maria Sierra                 Senior Financial Officer           FABBK Treasury
Antonio Cristian D’Amelj     Senior Counsel                     LEGLE Legal
Concepcion Aisa Otin         Senior Financial Officer           FABBK Treasury
Genoveva Jeannette Fernandez Senior Disaster Risk Management
                                                                LCSDU DRM
Castro                       ETC
                             Senior Disaster Risk Management
Osmar Eleazar Velasco Lopez                                     GSURR DRM
                             STC
Carolina Diaz Giraldo        Disaster Risk Management ETC       GSURR   DRM/Operations
Bontje Marie Zangerling      Junior Professional Associate      GSURR   DRM/Operations
Andre L. Carletto            Disaster Risk Management STC       GSURR   DRM/Operations
Nancy Chaarani Meza          Operations Officer                 GSURR   ICR main author




                                             22
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                        USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY11                                     21.27                        127.51
                          Total:         21.27                        127.51
Supervision/ICR
FY11                                      9.55                         71.22
FY12                                      7.94                         57.96
FY13                                     11.95                         70.50
FY14                                     20.69                         71.83
FY15                                     14.98                         63.59
                          Total:         65.11                        335.11




                                       23
         Annex 2. Policy Areas, Prior Actions, Key Outcome Indicators and Achievements *

POLICY AREA 1
STRENGTHENING OF THE INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Prior Actions                Key Outcome Indicators Achievements at the time of ICR
Updating of the Borrower’s Civil            Indicator 1: The GoES is        Achieved.
Protection and Disaster Prevention and      better prepared to respond to   The Government of El Salvador is better prepared to respond to disasters as it has implemented a
Mitigation National Plan, dated July        adverse natural events and      comprehensive approach that covers all the steps of the preparedness cycle: planning, organizing,
2009, to, inter alia, identify new risks    Sectoral Emergency Response     equipping, training, undertaking simulation exercises and evaluating/improving at different territorial
and establish measures to manage said       Plans and other Plans are       levels.
risks, and publication of the same in the   implemented in relevant
Civil Protection and Disaster Prevention    situations                       Planning
and Mitigation General Direction’s                                           Civil Protection and Disaster Prevention and Mitigation National Plan updated in 2011 and 2012,
website                                                                       evolving from a disaster-response to a more comprehensive DRM approach. The 2012 version of
(www.proteccioncivil.gob.sv)                                                  the National Plan has not yet been approved and is under review by the National Commission.
                                                                             The seven Sectoral Emergency Response Plans (SERP) for Emergency Services, Infrastructure and
(a) approval by the National Commission                                       Basic Services, Health, Logistics, Security, Shelters, and Techno-Scientific that were developed in
of the creation of seven Sectoral                                             2010 have been implemented by the Commissions to respond to disasters (including Tropical
Emergency Response Commissions, as                                            Depression 12E) and effectively complement the allocation of responsibilities of scope of response
evidenced in the National Commission                                          tasks.
Session Minutes (Acta de Sesion                                              The National Rainy Season Plan has been updated once a year (between 2010- 2014) and
Extraordinaria), dated October 5, 2009;                                       implemented to respond to rainy periods.
and                                                                          The National Seismic Contingency Plan was approved in 2010. Additional Contingency Plans for
(b) submission for approval by the                                            different natural events have been approved, systematically updated, disseminated, and
National Commission of seven Sectoral                                         implemented.
Emergency Response Plans, as evidenced                                       By 2014, 40 Municipalities had developed Plans for Civil Protection.
by letter sent by the National
Commission’s president to the National                                      Organizing, equipping, and training
Commission members, dated November                                           The seven Sectoral Emergency Response Commissions organized around the same tasks as the
30, 2010, requesting a meeting on                                             SERPs have been holding regular coordination meetings since their creation in October 2009, and
December 16, 2010 to, inter alia,                                             involved relevant government and non-governmental agencies in emergency response.
approve the Sectoral Emergency                                               Civil Protection Directorate increased its staff at different territorial levels from 33 to 233 between
Response Plans                                                                2011 and 2014.
Approval by the National Commission,                                         Municipal and Community Civil Protection Commissions increased from 202 to 262 and from 990
of the National Earthquake Contingency                                        to 2,730 respectively between 2011 and 2014; training activities to guide the formulation of Civil
Plan (Plan Nacional de Contingencia                                           Protection Plans and communication equipment have been provided to Municipal and Community
para Terremotos), as evidenced in the                                         Commissions, delivering 40 Municipal Plans, 1650 emergency kits, and increasing communication
National Commission Session Minutes

                                                                                      24
(Acta de Sesion Extraordinaria), dated                                        radios from 34 to 464.
October 5, 2009                                                              The RRC led by STPP and the Ministry of Finance has become an effective government body in
                                                                              coordinating reconstruction efforts and channeling communications with the Presidency and
Approval by the National Commission of                                        relevant government agencies.
the 2010 Rainy Season Plan (Plan
Invernal 2010), as evidenced in the                                         Undertaking simulation exercises and evaluating
National Commission Session Minutes                                          Two simulation exercises of the National Seismic Contingency Plan were carried out in over 90
(Acta de Sesion Extraordinaria), dated                                        municipalities, including the Metropolitan Area of San Salvador, in June 2013 and in May 2014.
May 7, 2010                                                                  Other contingency plans and SERPs were evaluated when activated and implemented, and
                                                                              summary documents (including damage report, response actions performed, conclusions and
                                                                              recommendations) were published.
POLICY AREA 2
MAINSTREAMING DISASTER RISK IN THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND INVESTMENT PROGRAMS
 Prior Actions                 Key Outcome Indicators Achievements
Approval by the Borrower’s National        Indicator 2: Public              Achieved.
Cabinet (Consejo de Ministros) of the      investment programs include      During 2009-2014, public investments to enhance risk prevention and mitigation in key sectors
2010-2014 Development Plan (Plan           specific activities to enhance   amounted to approximately USD 303 million (approximately 13/1000 of the total 2010-2014
Quinquenal de Desarrollo), incorporating   risk prevention and mitigation   national budget). This surpassed budgetary allocations included in the 2010-2014 NDP in the amount
a disaster risk management component,      as a result of the               of the USD 173 million for priority investments in environmental and risk management as a whole
as evidenced in the National Cabinet       implementation of the 2010-      (comprising prevention and mitigation activities). The achievements reported include public
Session Minutes (Acta) of March 16,        2014 Development Plan.           investments by target institutions participating in the program, but other agencies, such as the
2010                                       (Baseline 0% of all              Ministry of Agriculture, among others, also invested in prevention and mitigation activities.
                                           investments)
                                                                             MARN invested more than USD 17.3 million in disaster risk reduction activities, such as
                                                                              improvements in risk identification, enhancing early warning systems, integrating a risk reduction
                                                                              approach in public investments and community awareness activities;

                                                                             MINED invested approx. USD 98.7 million in rehabilitation and/or construction of school
                                                                              buildings as well as repairs (including of damages resulting from storms) that incorporated disaster
                                                                              risk mitigation measures;

                                                                             MOPTVDU invested a total of USD 76.1 million in the implementation of 119 projects, such as
                                                                              works for landslide and flood prevention and mitigation, river drainage improvements, and
                                                                              retrofitting of existing bridges;

                                                                             FOVIAL implemented roads infrastructure mitigation and protection projects in the amount of
                                                                              approx. USD 19.2 million; and


                                                                                      25
                                                                                 MINSAL invested over USD 306 million investments in the (re)construction of health
                                                                                  infrastructure and hospital equipment; according to MINSAL, 30% of these investments were
                                                                                  related to mitigation measures.
Development of the National Program for    Indicator 3: Consistent with         Surpassed.
Risk Reduction 2010-2012 (Programa         2010-2014 Development Plan,          Four line Ministries have taken an active role in monitoring natural events and assessing risks during
Nacional de Reducción de Riesgos 2010-     key ministries have included         the implementation of the CAT DDO from 2010 to 2014. MARN has been the most active agency
2012), dated February, 2010, as            risk analysis initiatives in their   through the execution of its National Program for Risk Reduction.
evidenced by letter sent by the            development plans, leading to
Borrower’s Minister of Environment and     a better use of technical             MARN
National Resources, dated December 3,      information on natural               - Operates an Integrated Hazard Monitoring Center to broadcast key data and information in real
2010, attaching the National Program for   disasters to refine and guide          time (24/7)
Risk Reduction 2010-2012                   investment programs to reduce        - Increased the number of seismic, hydrological, and meteorological monitoring stations from 95 to
                                           vulnerability                          267 between 2009 and 2014.
                                           (Baseline: one Ministry;             - Undertook detailed vulnerability studies and produced maps for flooding, landslides, and coastal
                                           Target: At least three                 erosion for 40% of El Salvador’s territory, including 60 vulnerability studies for specific localities.
                                           Ministries)                          - Approved environmental zoning and land use guidelines in 2013.

                                                                                 MOPTVDU
                                                                                - Established the Directorate for Adaptation to Climate Change and Strategic Risk Management
                                                                                  (DACGER) in 2010 and made it fully functional by 2012.
                                                                                - DACGER developed guidelines for assessing landslide risks and the hydro-meteorological
                                                                                  vulnerability of bridges, prioritizing works in highways and designing climate-smart bridges, all
                                                                                  under implementation.

                                                                                 MINSAL
                                                                                - Incorporated PAHO’s concept of Safe Hospitals to retrofit six and build two new hospitals.
                                                                                - Implemented the Hospital Safety Index to evaluate 98% of national hospitals and 223 health
                                                                                  community centers.

                                                                           MINED
                                                                          - Evaluated school infrastructure using the School Safety Index, finding that 548 schools are
                                                                            exposed to landslides and 289 to flooding.
                                                                          - In coordination with MARN, and using the CAPRA methodology, evaluated the seismic risk of
                                                                            1050 school buildings in the Metropolitan Area of San Salvador finding that 40% of the
                                                                            infrastructure does not meet seismic standards.
                                                                          - Finalized the geo-referencing of the total portfolio of schools in the country (6,035 in 2014,
                                                                            including 923 private schools).
             * This table was prepared based on Annex 2 “Policy Matrix: DRM DPL with a CAT DDO” of the Program Document.


                                                                                          26
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                       27
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                                    Aide-Memoire
  Validation Workshop of the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) for
the Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan with a Catastrophe Deferred
                                Drawdown Option
                          (DPL with CAT DDO IBRD-79970)
                            San Salvador, February 3, 2015

Background
On February 1, 2011, the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors approved the Disaster Risk
Management (DRM) Development Policy Loan (DPL) with a Catastrophe Deferred
Drawdown Option (CAT DDO) in the amount of USD 50 million that had been requested by
the Government of El Salvador (GoES). The loan was declared effective on May 24, 2011.

In response to the impact caused by Tropical Depression 12E that hit El Salvador from
October 10 to 20, 2011, the GoES requested a first withdrawal of funds in the amount of USD
25 million on October 14 and requested the remaining undisbursed amount of USD 24.75
million on October 24, 2011. The agreed drawdown trigger to access the funds was a
declaration of a State of Emergency by Legislative or Executive Decree, in accordance with
Law 777, Art. 24 (Civil Protection Law of 2005).

The Program Development Objective of the DPL with CAT DDO was to enhance the GoES’
capacity to implement its Disaster Risk Management Program for natural disasters.

Objective of the Validation Workshop
The objective of the validation workshop was to jointly review the draft Implementation
Completion and Results Report (ICR) and receive comments from representatives of
government agencies involved in the operation.
The validation workshop was attended by representatives of the Directorate of Investment and
Public Credit under the Ministry of Finance (DCGICP/MH), Technical and Planning
Secretariat of the Presidency (STPP), Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(MARN), Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Housing, and Urban Development
(MOPTVDU), Ministry of Education (MINED), and representatives of the World Bank.

Summary of the Validation Workshop
As a starting point of the workshop, the Director of the DGICP/MH welcomed the participants
and introduced the objective of the event. World Bank representatives then recounted the
history of the DPL with CAT DDO as an instrument to ensure financial liquidity to cope with
the impact of disasters caused by natural events. The achievements made under the three
outcome indicators in the policy matrix of the CAT DDO were assessed individually, and
factors that may have affected the performance of the loan were reviewed. Then, the proposed
ratings for overall outcome, Bank performance, and Borrower performance, as well as lessons
learned from the implementation of the loan were presented for consideration of the
government representatives participating in the workshop.

                                            28
Comments received from the representatives of participating GoES institutions

1.       Regarding the instrument (DPL with CAT DDO)

The representatives of the participating GoES institutions concluded that the DPL with CAT
DDO achieved its main objectives, which were to support the implementation of the country’s
risk management plan in the context of the National Development Plan 2010-2014 (Plan
Quinquenal de Desarrollo 2010-2014) and provide access to liquidity following the
declaration of a state of national emergency, as a result of the impact of Tropical Depression
12E. In particular, the CAT DDO provided access to resources quickly and effectively,
allowing the GoES to assess the situation promptly and prioritize the allocation of funds
(under the leadership of MH and STPP). Participants also highlighted the detailed preparation
process of the operation with the Bank and the efficient disbursements of CAT DDO funds.

Some of the main challenges during implementation were the unfavorable market conditions
and fiscal situation that prevented the use of the revolving feature of the CAT DDO despite
the interest of the GoES and continued dialogue on this topic throughout the implementation
of the operation.

The dialogue with the Bank also emphasized the need for other risk transfer instruments, in
order to articulate different instruments as part of disaster risk financing strategy. The success
of the CAT DDO as a financial instrument was also highlighted, in the context of the
preparation of a similar contingent credit with the Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA).

2.       Regarding the Outcome Indicators

Outcome Indicator 1: The GoEs is better prepared to respond to adverse natural events and
Sectoral Emergency Response and other Plans are implemented in relevant situations.

        The representatives of GoES institutions agreed with the methodology used to measure
         the results of this indicator, due to the lack of baseline and target.
        The STPP suggested including information on infrastructure facilities of the Civil
         Protection Directorate (such as the Emergency Operations Centers), in addition to the
         information included in the ICR.

Outcome Indicator 2: Public investment programs include specific activities to enhance risk
prevention and mitigation as a result of the implementation of the 2010-2014 Development
Plan.

        The representatives of GoES institutions agreed with the methodology for measuring
         this indicator, particularly due to the lack of precision of the baseline and the fact that
         a target was not established.
        Representatives of MINED and MOPTVDU provided corrections to the investment
         amounts in risk prevention and mitigation, which will be updated in the ICR.

                                                 29
Outcome Indicator 3: Consistent with the 2010-2014 Development Plan, key ministries have
included risk analysis initiatives in their development plans, leading to a better use of
technical information on natural disasters.

        The GoES representatives agreed with the rating for this indicator and with the
         progress of each institution as outlined in the ICR.

3.       Regarding the factors that affected the implementation of the loan

The GoES confirmed its agreement with the factors identified in the ICR report.

4.       Regarding the proposed ratings

Assessment of Overall Outcome
The GoES agrees with the Satisfactory rating proposed in the context of this evaluation, and
suggested establishing more appropriate mechanisms to ensure adequate monitoring and
evaluation by the Bank and by government entities. The following issues were highlighted:
    The objectives, design and implementation of the operation were relevant for the
       development agenda of El Salvador, in the context of the National Development Plan
       2010-2014.
    The CAT DDO was highly relevant and fostered a continued dialogue between the
       Bank and the different entities of the GoES.
    The assessment of the program shows that there has been considerable progress in
       DRM in the country, and a strengthening of government capacities to prepare for and
       respond to disasters, and to integrate DRM at sectoral level.
    The CAT DDO was a timely and efficient source of liquidity after Tropical Depression
       12E, which is the most severe weather event recorded in the country.

In addition, participants suggested that the ICR highlight that the DPL with CAT DDO was
new financial instrument for all and hence, involved a learning process for both the
government institutions and the Bank.

Moreover, the MH and other representatives of the GoES stressed that a benefit of the
program was that it contributed to the adoption of a more comprehensive and proactive
approach to disaster risk management, including risk prevention actions at all territorial levels,
including community level.

Participants also highlighted important advances regarding the coordination of actions
between different government entities, and the synergies that have been created for risk
management (i.e. the work on risk management plans for schools and their linkages with
community plans, etc.).

Assessment of Bank Performance
GoES participants stressed the high quality of the advice provided by the Bank during the
design phase of the operation, and the support of the Bank throughout implementation. In

                                               30
particular, the importance of the training provided by the Bank on the CAT DDO
disbursement conditions and on the process to withdraw the funds in case of an emergency
was highlighted.

However, taking into account the Bank's evaluation guidelines, and the weaknesses of the
results framework of the program, participants confirmed their agreement with the overall
Bank performance rating of Moderately Satisfactory, in line with the arguments outlined in
the ICR.

Assessment of Borrower Performance
Participants agreed that a Satisfactory rating for Borrower performance is consistent with the
evaluation criteria in the report.

Positive aspects that were highlighted include a change of culture in some sectors where
projects were implemented under the program, and closer ties with civil society to promote
ownership of the issue of disaster risk management at all levels.

Lessons Learned
    Participants agreed with lessons learned proposed in the report, and highlighting the
      following, in particular:
    The guidance of the Bank during the preparation of the operation was key to ensuring
      the effectiveness of the activation of the CAT DDO and disbursement of funds,
      enabling it as a source of immediate liquidity. This was the result of detailed
      identification of the procedures and responsibilities of the Borrower and the Bank to
      activate and process the disbursements.
    The policy dialogue could have been more efficient with a better identification of
      outcomes and key indicators in the policy matrix.
    Reporting mechanisms should be included in more detail in Loan Agreements and
      Program Documents, and the frequency, scope and responsibility of reporting should
      be agreed with the government.
    The implementation review workshops facilitated Bank supervision and were
      important to ensure a successful policy dialogue, especially when the disbursement of
      funds takes place early in the life of the operation.

Comments on the text of the ICR
The MH and other institutions will send their comments on the text of the ICR to the Bank by
Friday February 6, 2015.

San Salvador, February 4, 2015

___________________________________                    _______________________________
Jerson Posada                                          Ana Campos García
General Director of Investment and Public Credit       Task Team Leader
Ministry of Finance                                     World Bank



                                             31
Copy of original Aide-Memoire in Spanish




                  32
33
34
35
36
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                        37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

IBRD Program Document for a Proposed DRM Development Policy Loan with a Catastrophe
Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT DDO) to the Republic of El Salvador (Report No. 56425 –
SV) – December 22, 2010

Loan Agreement (Loan Number 7997-SV) – March 16, 2011

Aide Memoires of August 2010, August 2011, August 2012, March 2013, November 2013,
and May 2014

Back-to-Office Reports (BTOR) for Identification Mission in September 2010, and
Supervision Missions in March 2013 and November 2013

Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Reports of March 2011, October 2011, October
2012, June 2013, December 2013, and June 2014

IBRD Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of El Salvador for the Period FY2010 –
FY2012 (Report No. 50642-SV)

IBRD Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for the Republic of El Salvador for the
Period FY2010 – FY2014 (Report No. 61113-SV)

Gobierno de El Salvador, Plan Quinquenal de Desarrollo 2010-2014, November 2010.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Secretaria Técnica y de Planificación de la Presidencia, Plan
Quinquenal de Desarrollo 2014-2019, January 2015.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Dirección de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
Desastres, Plan Nacional de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de Desastres, March
2012.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Dirección de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
Desastres, Plan Nacional de Contingencia para Terremotos, December 2010.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Dirección de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
Desastres, Plan Sectorial de la Comisión Técnica de Albergues, December 2010.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Dirección de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
Desastres, Plan Sectorial de la Comisión Técnica de Infraestructura y Servicios Básicos,
December 2010.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Dirección de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
Desastres, Plan Sectorial de la Comisión Técnica de Logística, December 2010.




                                             38
Gobierno de El Salvador, Dirección de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
Desastres, Plan Sectorial de la Comisión Técnica de Salud, December 2010.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Dirección de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
Desastres, Plan Sectorial de la Comisión Técnica de Seguridad, December 2010.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Dirección de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
Desastres, Plan Sectorial de la Comisión Técnica de Servicios de Emergencia, December
2010.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Dirección de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
Desastres, Plan Sectorial de la Comisión Técnico Científica, December 2010.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, Programa
Nacional de Reducción de Riesgos a Desastres 2010-2014, March 2010.

Gobierno de El Salvador, Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, Informe de
Labores Junio 2009 - Mayo 2014.

The United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR), European Commission,
and Secretaria para Asuntos de la Vulnerabilidad de El Salvador, Informe sobre la Gestión
Integral del Riesgo de Desastres en El Salvador 2013.

Comité Nacional de Rehabilitación y Reconstrucción, Gobierno de El Salvador and Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), El Salvador: Evaluación de
Daños y Pérdidas Sectoriales, y Estimación de Necesidades por la Depresión Tropical 12E,
November 2011.

Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) et al., Resumen
Regional del Impacto de la Depresión Tropical 12E en Centroamérica. Cuantificación de
Daños y Pérdidas Sufridos por los Países de la Región en el Mes de Octubre De 2011,
November 2011.

World Bank and GFDRR, Disaster Risk Management in Central America: GFDRR Country
Notes, El Salvador.

Cuéllar, Nelson et al., Cambio climático y Desarrollo en El Salvador: Respuestas de Políticas
y Desafíos para la Gestión Territorial, 1ª ed., San Salvador, El Salvador: Fundación
PRISMA, 2013.

Kimberlain, Todd, Tropical Depression 12-E Report. National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, National Hurricane Center, updated January 12, 2012.




                                             39
Annex 8. Impact of Tropical Depression 12E in El Salvador

Tropical Depression 12E hit El Salvador with heavy rainfall from October 10 to 20, 2011.
Accumulations averaged 762 mm over this period across the territory, with peak rainfall
accumulations of 1,500 mm in some places, surpassing levels experienced during Hurricane
Mitch (1998) and making it the most severe weather event recorded in the country28.

On October 14, 2011, the Government of El Salvador declared a State of Emergency due to
the impact caused by Tropical Depression 12E, and requested the full disbursement of the
DRM DPL with CAT DDO a few days later through two separate withdrawal requests.

El Salvador’s Civil Protection System reported that 181 of 262 municipalities (nearly 70%)
were affected by the event, where heavy rains caused rivers to overflow, landslides and
flooding, with severe damages in the departments of Usulután, La Paz, La Libertad, Sonsonate
and Ahuachapán29. In total, 2,000 km2 (10 percent of the country) were affected by floods30.

Because of the severity of the event, the death toll was 35 (most casualties were due to
landslides in areas of high risk) and over 56,000 people were forced to evacuate their homes.
Based on families who lost their homes or were displaced during the emergency, and taking
into account the income losses that occurred as a consequence of the disaster, the total
population affected in a primary and secondary manner by the event was estimated at
1,424,091 people (54.7 percent of the total population)31.

Based on a study conducted by ECLAC in 2011 32 , the value of economic damages and
losses33 caused by Tropical Depression 12E in El Salvador is estimated at USD 902.46 million,
which represents 4.25% of the country’s GDP in 2010. Of that total amount, USD 569.44
million correspond to the destruction of assets (63% of total), while the remaining USD
333.02 million represent losses (37% of the total). It is important to highlight that the
economic impact of Tropical Depression 12E in El Salvador was higher than that of Hurricane
Mitch (1998) Hurricane Stan (2005), Tropical Storm Ida (2009) and Tropical Storm Agatha




28
   ECLAC, IDB, United Nations, World Bank (2011). Resumen regional del impacto de la Depresión Tropical
12-E en Centroamérica. Cuantificación de daños y pérdidas sufridos por los países de la región en el mes de
octubre de 2011
29
   Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil. Depresión Tropical 12-E 7 al 27/10/2011. Informe de Rendición de
Cuentas. Emergencia nacional. El Salvador (2012)
30
   International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) (2013). El Salvador: Tropical
Depression 12-E. Emergency appeal N° MDRSV004. (Period covered by the Final Report: 17 October 2011 to
31 January 2013)
31
   ECLAC, IDB, United Nations, World Bank (2011).
32
   ECLAC, IDB, United Nations, World Bank (2011).
33
   ECLAC, United Nations, World Bank (2003). Manual for the evaluation of the socioeconomic and
environmental impact of disasters, Damages are understood as the (total or partial) destruction of assets,
patrimony, goods, capital (valued at the same quality); losses (changes in flows stemming from damages) are
understood as the higher costs of services, losses in production or sales (with respect to the previous trend).


                                                      40
(2010), the losses and damages of which were estimated at USD 388.1 million, USD 355.6
million, USD 314.8 million and USD112.1 million, respectively34.

Tropical Depression 12E affected the country’s economic activity in different proportions.
The major damages and losses affected the country’s productive sectors (37.5% of the total),
followed by physical infrastructure (31%), social sectors (23%) and cross sectoral issues, such
as impacts on the environment (8.5%).

     Table 1: Summary of damages and losses caused by Tropical Depression 12E in El Salvador
                               among affected sectors (in USD)

                          Sectors and Subsectors              Damages and losses (USD)
                 Social                                                      207,077,184.87
                 Housing                                                     140,738,930.00
                 Health                                                       44,900,832.15

                 Education                                          21,437,422.72
                 Productive                                                  339,110,232.79
                 Agriculture and fisheries                                   174,294,487.00
                 Industry                                                     32,023,145.00
                 Trade                                                       131,349,696.89
                 Tourism                                                       1,442,903.00

                 Infrastructure                             279,566,293.79
                 Transportation and communications                           244,365,240.18
                 Energy                                                        6,931,184.32
                 Water and Sanitation                                         28,269,869.29
                 Cross sectoral                                               76,708,345.88
                 Environmental effects                                        76,546,415.68
                 TOTAL (USD)                                                 902,462,057.33

Source: ECLAC, IDB, United Nations, World Bank. 2011




34
   Corresponds to economic damages and losses in million adjusted to 2011 currency valuation. Sources: World
Bank Group from: ECLAC 2004. El Salvador: Evaluación de los daños ocasionados por el Huracán Mitch, 1998.
Sus implicaciones para el desarrollo económico y social y el medio ambiente. México, D.F; ECLAC 2005.
Efectos en El Salvador de las lluvias torrenciales, Tormenta Tropical Stan y erupción del volcán Ilamatepec
octubre del 2005. México, D.F.; ECLAC 2010. El Salvador: Impacto socioeconómico, ambiental y de riesgo por
la baja presión asociada a la Tormenta Tropical Ida en noviembre de 2009. México, D.F.; ECLAC-Gobierno de
El Salvador 2010. Evaluación de daños y pérdidas en El Salvador ocasionados por la Tormenta Tropical Agatha.
México, D.F.


                                                       41
         Graph 1: Damages and losses: Tropical Depression 12E in El Salvador (in USD)




Source: Compilation based on data from ECLAC, IDB, United Nations, World Bank. 2011



Table 1 and Graph 1 illustrate the distribution of damages and losses of the sectors that were
most affected by the event. What stands out is the severe destruction of roads and bridges
(estimated at USD 244.36 million), which had a detrimental effect on connectivity, which in
turn had a negative impact on productive and social activities. The agricultural sector
experienced the destruction of irrigation infrastructure and significant production losses in
crops and grassland, with a combined value of USD 174.2 million. The housing sector also
experienced significant destruction (valued at USD 140.3 million), thereby worsening
preexisting housing shortages in terms of quantity and quality. The trade sector also had
significant losses in terms of sales and the destruction of assets and stocks (valued at USD
131.3 million). The environmental sector experienced an effect on ecosystems, caused by
landslides and floods (USD 76.5 million). The water and sanitation sector suffered significant
destruction to water supply and sewerage systems in the order of USD 28.2 million. Finally,
the education sector experienced the destruction of schools (value estimated at USD 21.4
million), and the health sector reported damages to facilities and medical supplies (in the
amount of approximately USD 44.9 million).




                                                     42
Annex 9. Organizational Structure of the National System for Civil Protection and
Disaster Prevention and Mitigation, and the Civil Protection Directorate




                                          43
