                                             CONFORMED COPY


                                          LOAN NUMBER 7997-SV




       Loan Agreement
(Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan)


                     between


         REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR


                       and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




              Dated March 16, 2011
                                    LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated March 16, 2011, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
(“Borrower?) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:

                ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
        to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), as such amount
        may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
        the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan?).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one half of one percent
        (0.50%) of the Loan amount.

2.04.   If, at the Borrower’s request and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may agree, the
        Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each extension of the
        Closing Date shall be at the rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the amount of
        the Loan available for withdrawal upon such extension. If the Borrower elects to
        capitalize the fee from the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
        from the Loan Account and pay to itself such amounts required to pay such fee. If the
        Borrower elects to pay the fee from its own resources, the Borrower shall pay such fee
        not later than sixty days after the date of the notice given by the Bank to the Borrower
        confirming the extension of the Closing Date.

2.05.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
        the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided that, upon a
        Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
        by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
        accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
        unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
        interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
        (e) of the General Conditions.

2.06.   The Payment Dates are February 15 and August15 in each year.

2.07.   (a)    Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal
               amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
               2 to this Agreement.

        (b)    The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request repayment
               provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement for such
               Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity of such Withdrawal does not
               exceed 18 years from the Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of such
               Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other
               average maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to loans
               made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii) such
               repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior
               to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal.

2.08.   (a)    The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
               terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
               the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
               withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
               interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
               Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
               versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
               based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
               applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
               and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
               Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
               accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined in the
               General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
               Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

2.09.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with
        the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to
        consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal or exceed
        five million Dollars ($5,000,000) shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a
        Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the
        General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

2.10.   At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank, refund
        any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such amount to the



                                              -2-
        Loan Account for further withdrawals. Upon such refund, the repayment schedule shall
        be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.

2.11.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
        furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
        Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
                exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework and the
                progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
                its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
                Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
                the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
                taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
                1 to this Agreement.

                        ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
        has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
        be carried out.

4.02.   The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event
        specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60
        days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

                    ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
        Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
        and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
        is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the
        eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on August 1,
        2012.



                                                -3-
                   ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministerio de Hacienda
        Boulevard de los Héroes 1231
        San Salvador, El Salvador

        Facsimile: (503) 2225 – 7491; (503) 2244-6419

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                  Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or          1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)

AGREED at San Salvador, Republic of El Salvador, as of the day and year first above written.




                                 REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR


                                 By /s/ Carlos Enrique Cáceres Chávez

                                                         Authorized Representative


                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                 By /s/ Carlos Felipe Jaramillo

                                                         Authorized Representative




                                               -4-
                                         SCHEDULE 1

                       Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
the Program include the following:

1.      updating of the Borrower’s Civil Protection and Disaster Prevention and Mitigation
        National Plan, dated July 2009, to, inter alia, identify new risks and establish measures to
        manage said risks, and publication of the same in the Civil Protection and Disaster
        Prevention and Mitigation General Direction’s website ( www.proceccioncivil.gob.sv);
2.      (a) approval by the National Commission of the creation of seven Sectoral Emergency
        Response Commissions, as evidenced in the National Commission Session Minutes (Acta
        de Sesión Extraordinaria), dated October, 5, 2009; and (b) submission for approval by
        the National Commission of seven Sectoral Emergency Response Plans, as evidenced by
        letter sent by the National Commission’s president to the National Commission members,
        dated November 30, 2010;
3.      approval by the National Commission, of the National Earthquake Contingency Plan
        (Plan Nacional de Contingencia para Terremotos), as evidenced in the National
        Commission Session Minutes (Acta de Sesión Extraordinaria), dated October, 5, 2009;
4.      approval by the National Commission of the 2010 Rainy Season Plan (Plan Invernal
        2010), as evidenced in the National Commission Session Minutes (Acta de Sesión
        Extraordinaria), dated May 7, 2010;
5.      approval by the Borrower’s National Cabinet (Consejo de Ministros) of the 2010-2014
        Development Plan (Plan Quinquenal de Desarrollo), incorporating a disaster risk
        management component, as evidenced in the National Cabinet Session Minutes (Acta) of
        March 16, 2010; and
6.      development of the National Program for Risk Reduction 2010-2012 (Programa
        Nacional de Reducción de Riesgos 2010-2012), dated February, 2010, as evidenced by
        letter sent by the Borrower’s Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, dated
        December 3, 2010, attaching the National Program for Risk Reduction 2010-2012.


Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
        provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
        notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
        end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
        withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
        is set out in the table below:




                                                -5-
                  Allocations                        Amount of the Loan Allocated
                                                        (expressed in Dollars)

      (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                             49,750,000
      (2) Front-end Fee                                            250,000
      (3) Fee payable pursuant to Section                                0
             2.04 of this Agreement
      TOTAL AMOUNT                                              50,000,000

C.   Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.04 of Agreement. If the Closing Date is
     extended pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement and the Borrower elects to finance
     from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section, no withdrawal shall be made from
     the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of such fee.

D.   Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.

1.   No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
     satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to it, that a state of emergency ( estado de
     emergencia) exists in the Borrower’s territory, or in a portion thereof, as a result of a
     natural disaster, which has been declared by the Borrower’s National Assembly, upon
     request by the Borrower’s President, or directly by the Borrower’s President, through a
     Executive Decree, if the National Assembly is not in session, in accordance with the
     Borrower’s legislation.

2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of a
     request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a review of
     the Borrower’s progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall give
     notice to the Borrower to that effect. Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals
     shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has notified
     the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described in paragraphs (a)
     and (b) of said Section 3.01, with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
     the Program.

E.   Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1.   all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account
     designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

2.   the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
     account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management
     system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

F.   Audit. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

1.   have the account designated by the Borrower pursuant to Section E.1 of this Section
     audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently
     applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;



                                            -6-
2.   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
     the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit,
     of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, and make such
     report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and

3.   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account and its audit as the
     Bank shall reasonably request.

G.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
     not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
     amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
     Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
     amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
     shall be cancelled.

H.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is August 31, 2014.




                                             -7-
                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                  Amortization Schedule

1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay each
     Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August
     15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th) Interest Payment Date
     following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last installment to
     be payable on the fifty-ninth (59th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing
     Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to
     one-forty-ninth (1/49) of the Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to
     the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.

2.   The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each Disbursed
     Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the event
     of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved
     Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
     Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
     the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
     to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
     the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
     relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
     Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

4.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
     provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
     Loan Currency.




                                             -8-
                                         APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.     “Civil Protection and Disaster Prevention and Mitigation National Plan? means Plan
       Nacional de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de Desastres, the Borrower's
       plan, defining the actions to be taken by the Borrower and civil society to, inter alia,
       manage risks and prepare for disaster cases, approved by the National Commission for
       Civil Protection and Disaster Prevention and Mitigation in June 2006, according to the
       Borrower's Legislative Decree 777.

2.     “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
               United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
               or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
               designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

                         Group           Sub-group            Description of Item
                         112                                  Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                  Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                              tobacco refuse
                         122                                  Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                                              or not containing tobacco
                                                              substitutes)
                         525                                  Radioactive and associated
                                                              materials
                         667                                  Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                                              stones, unworked or worked
                         718             718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                              thereof; fuel elements (cartridges),
                                                              non-irradiated, for nuclear
                                                              reactors
                         728             728.43               Tobacco processing machinery
                         897             897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                              platinum group metals (except
                                                              watches and watch cases) and
                                                              goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares
                                                              (including set gems)
                         971                                  Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                                              gold ores and concentrates)



                                              -9-
     (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
             prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
             the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally
             hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
             Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
             and

     (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
             coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
             recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
             having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
             such practices when they occur.

3.   “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans?, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications
     set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

4.   “Legislative Decree 777? means Ley de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de
     Desastres, the Borrower’s Civil Protection and Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Law,
     dated August 18, 2005, duly published in the Official Gazette on August 31, 2005, as
     amended to the date of this Agreement.

5.   “National Assembly? means Asamblea Legislativa, the Borrower’s legislative branch.

6.   “National Commission for Civil Protection and Disaster Prevention and Mitigation? or
     “National Commission? means Comisión Nacional de Protección Civil, Prevención y
     Mitigación de Desastres, the Borrower’s national commission, created by the Borrower’s
     Legislative Decree 777 to, inter alia, design and supervise the implementation of the
     national policy on civil protection and disaster prevention and mitigation.

7.   “National Earthquake Contingency Plan? means Plan Nacional de Contingencia para
     Terremotos, the Borrower’s national plan establishing processes and procedures to
     manage emergency responses in the event of an earthquake.

8.   “National Program for Risk Reduction? means Plan Nacional de Reducción de Riesgos
     2010-2012, the Borrower’s national plan for risk reduction proposing objectives, projects,
     and actions to reduce risks.

9.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance the
     Borrower’s capacity to implement its disaster risk management program for natural
     disasters and set forth or referred to in the letter dated December 7, 2010 from the
     Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the
     Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
     execution.

                                           -10-
10.     “Sectoral Emergency Response Commissions? means the following Borrower’s
        commissions: Comisión Técnica Sectorial de Logística, Comisión Técnica Sectorial de
        Servicios de Emergencia, Comisión Técnica Sectorial de Infraestructura y Servicios
        Básicos, Comisión Técnica Sectorial de Salud, Comisión Técnica Sectorial de Seguridad,
        Comisión Técnica Sectorial de Albergues, and Comisión Técnica Sectorial Técnico
        Científica, each of which has been created to strenghten the coordinating mechanisms to
        respond to disasters (as said term is defined in the Borrower’s Legislative Decree 777).

11.     “Sectoral Emergency Response Plans? means the following Borrower’s plans: Plan de la
        Comisión Técnica Sectorial de Logística, Plan de la Comisión Técnica Sectorial de
        Servicios de Emergencia, Plan de la Comisión Técnica Sectorial de Infraestructura y
        Servicios Básicos, Plan de la Comisión Técnica Sectorial de Salud, Plan de la Comisión
        Técnica Sectorial de Seguridad, Plan de la Comisión Técnica Sectorial de Albergues, and
        Plan de la Comisión Técnica Sectorial Técnico Científica, prepared by the Sectoral
        Emergency Response Commissions, reflecting current knowledge on best practices in
        disaster risk management in different sectors, including, inter alia, health, infrastructure
        and basic services, and emergency services.

12.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
        entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

13.     “2010 Rainy Season Plan? means Plan Invernal 2010, the Borrower’s national plan,
        dated May 14, 2010, establishing processes and procedures to manage emergency
        responses in case of a hydro-meteorological event.

14.     “2010-2014 Development Plan? means Plan Quinquenal de Desarrollo, the Borrower’s
        five year development plan, incorporating environmental and disaster risk management
        policies.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
        entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
        Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
        relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
        modified to read as follows:

                                               -11-
            “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …         (c)     The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
            bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
            two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s
            representatives to examine such records.?

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

            Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)      The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
            to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
            scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
            the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
            respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
            the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
            Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
            Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Fixed Spread? is modified to read as follows:

            “Fixed Spread? means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for the
            Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time,
            on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per annum; provided,
            that: (a) for purposes of determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to
            Section 3.02 (e), that is applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
            on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread? means the
            Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar
            day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of
            such amount; (b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a
            Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for purposes
            of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread? means the
            Bank’s fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington,
            D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or
            any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, the Fixed Spread shall be



                                           -12-
      adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion
      Guidelines.

(d)   The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is modified
      to read as follows (and all references to “Project? throughout these General
      Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?):

      “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
      which the Loan is made.?

(e)   The term “Variable Spread? is modified to read as follows:

      “Variable Spread? means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: (1) the
      Bank’s standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington,
      D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted average
      margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the Reference Rate, for six-
      month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions
      thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on the
      Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
      percentage per annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one
      Currency, “Variable Spread? applies separately to each of such Currencies.

(f)   A new term “Withdrawal? is added to read as follows:

      “Withdrawal? means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower from
      the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.

(g)   A new term “Withdrawal Date? is added to read as follows:

      “Withdrawal Date? means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the Bank
      pays the Withdrawal.




                                   -13-
