Dommt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
042. 2GC& G- CO
Report No. P-4210-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt1l4.0 MILLION
TO
THE COLOMBIAN INSTITUTE FOR HYDROLOGY, METEOROLOGY AND LAND IMPROVEMENT (HIMAT)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
February 27, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURREC  EQVET
Currency Unit     =       Colombian Peso (Col$)
ColS172.37        =       US$1.00 (December 31, 1985)
WEIGHS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOR          - Banco de la Republica
(Bank of the Republic (Central Bank))
CAJA         - Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja Agraria)
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank)
DNP          - Departamento de Planeacion Nacional
(National Planning Department)
FEDEARROZ    - Federacion Nacional de Arroceros
(National Federation of Rice Groiyers)
FFA2         - Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
(Agricultural Financing Fund)
RIMAT        - Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y
Adecuacion de Tierras
(Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land
Improvement)
ICA          - Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
(Colombian Agricultural Institute)
IDEMA        - Instituto de Hercadeo Agropecuario
(Institute for Agricultural Marketing)
INCORA       - Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
(Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform)
INDERENA     - Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables
(National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources)
OPSA         - Oficina de Planemiento del Sector Agropecuario
(Planning Office for the Agricultural Sector)
SENA         - Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Apprenticeship Service)



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and
Land Improvement (HIYAT)
Guarantor:         Republic of Colombia
Amount:            US$114.0 million equivalent
Terms:             17 years, including four years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:       The project is part of the Government's efforts to
revitalize the agricultural sector and to improve the
economic efficiency of public sector institutions. At the
subsectoral level, it is part of the strategy to rehabil-
itate existing irrigation facilities and to construct
small-scale irrigation schemes before investing in large
new irrigation districts. It aims to maximize returns on
past investments and to improve the generation of funds
for future operation and maintenance of the irrigation
network. The project is a follow-up to the Irrigation
Rehabilitation I Project (Loan 1996-CO). The main project
objectives are to: (a) increase crop production on
108,000 ha in six districts, through rehabilitation and
improved technical and extension services leading to more
intensive land use; (b) improve the incomes of some 3,900
poor farmers located on about 7,800 ha in the foothills of
the Andes and in the savannah country of Northern Colombia
through small-scale irrigation development; (c) partially
restore the agricultural production base in the area
affected by the recent volcanic disaster through recon-
struction and addition of irrigation facilities; and (d)
improve the sustainability and replicability of public
irrigation investments through full recovery of operation
and maintenance costs and the building up of water users'
associations. Project beneficiaries would be some 10,800
farmers, of which over 50Z have incomes belor the poverty
level. The average beneficiary per capita income of about
US$1,060 before the project is expected to rise to about
US$1,940 at full development.
Project Risks:     The major risk is that beneficiaries would be slow to
adopt technological changes including land levelling, thus
delaying or reducing project benefits. Based on the
experience under the first rehabilitation project, how-
ever, this risk can be overcome through technical assist-
ance, training and access to credit, all of which are
features of the proposed project.
This document has * restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official dutios Its contents may not otherwise be disclbsed without World Bank authorizaion.



- ii -
'Estimated Project Costs:                      Local      Foreign    Total
-US$ million o
Civil Works                               39.7         33.9      73.6
Equipment                                  0.8          8.8       9.6
Medium-Term Credit                        28.2         16.4      44.6
Incremental Working Capital'/             11.9          6.0      17.9
Small-Scale Irrigation                     5.8          5.0      10.8
Armero Development Program                10.4          8.8      19.2
Other                                     18.7          4.1      22.8
Base Cost                            115.5         83.0     198.5
Physical Contingencies                     6.6          5.6      12.2
Price Contingencies                       21.4         25.4      46.8
Total Project Cost                   143.52/      114.0     257.5
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                                   -         114.0     114.0
Government                                59.9           -       59.9
Banking System                            54.1           -       54.1
Beneficiaries                             29.5           -       29.5
Total Project Cost                   143.5        114.0     257.5
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY          1987   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   1994
-US$ million
Annual            5.7    8.0  18.2  21.7  21.6  17.1  11.4   10.3
Cumulative        5.7   13.7  31.9  53.6  75.2  92.3 103.7  114.0
Economic Rate
of Return:          28%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 5954-CO, dated February 28, 1986.
Ma:                    IBRD No. 19223 - Project Location.
1/ Short-term agricultural credit on the basis of farm models.
2/ Includes US$1.1 million in taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE COLOMBIAN INSTITUTE FOR HYDROLOGY, METEOROLOGY AND LAND IMPROVEMENT
(HIMAT)
FOR THE
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$114.0 million to help
finance the Irrigation Rehabilitation II Project. The loan would have a term
of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 aid its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. A
mission to review the external sector and agriculture visited Colombia during
April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in April 1984. Macroeconomic policies were also reviewed in the
President's Report (P4055-CO) for the Trade Policy and Export Diversification
Loan of May 2, 1985. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
A. Background
3.        The Colombian economy has made considerable progress since the
early 1950s, evolving from a largely agricultural and rural base, integrated
and industrialized, into one that is more open. The growing economic
activity, rapid rural-urban migration, increased participation of women in
the labor force, and expanded public services have contributed to reductions
in poverty and improvements in income distribution. Financial and capital
markets have evolved pari passu with the growing needs of the economy, and
the country has become an active participant in international capital
markets. The state enterprises are few, follow adequate pricing policies,
and many have some form of private sector participation. The country's
energy balance has been changing in recent years and the country is expected
to become a net petroleum exporter in 1986 and, increasingly, an exporter of
thermal coal.
4.        Export promotion has been a concern of the Colombian authorities
for some time. Beginning in 1967 authorities adopted an outward-looking
development strategy, expanding and diversifying exports. Export promotion
policies, including frequent small devaluations of the peso, export tax
rebates and other incentives were introduced and the authorities began lower-
ing tariffs somewhat and relaxing capital market controls as a means of
raising efficiency and increasing the profitability and competitiveness of
Colombian goods in external markets. These measures were successful in
relieving the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth and
employment.
1/ Unchanged from Rural Transport Sector Project (No. P-4211-CO), February
27, 1986).



-2-
B. Economic Performance During the 1970s
5.        In the mid 1970's, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary
pressures from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased
receipts from coffee exports, together with some official surrender of
foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused a turnaround in the balance of
payments. Incomes rose rapidly stimulating aggregate demand, and inflation
accelerated. Economic growth also rose, and unemployment fell substantially
in rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated overall surpluses averaging about 1%
of GDP during 1976-78 and, by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
6.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had
some negative effects. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed and the
conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the growth
of domestic demand, with adverse effects on non-coffee exports. The
Government also sought to check inflation by maintaining high reserve
requirements and expanding controls over credit thereby reducing, in real
terms, the financing available to the private sector through the official
capital market.
7.        The 1977-79 economic program was partially successful in restrain-
ing aggregate demand growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In
response to increasing restraint on aggregate demand, troublesome financial
market distortions, and disincentives to non-coffee exports from the exchange
rate appreciation the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the program.
The rate of peso devaluation was advanced somewhat, and in early 1980 credit
restraints were relaxed. At the same time, interest rates on certificates of
deposit--and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy of not expanding the subsidized
selective credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources
captured from private savings for this purpose. Real GDP growth decelerated
to 4% in 1980 from an average of almost 6% since 1960, unemployment started
to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
C. Recent Economic Developments
8.        During 1981-83 the economic situation took a turn for the worse in
part on account of external factors, with real GDP growth slowing down to
2.3% in 1981 and about 1% on average in 1982-83. Agricultural output was
hard-hit as a result of low international prices, reduced input use from
declining profitability and adverse weather. Industrial activity
deteriorated on account of depressed aggregate demand, and unutilized
capacity continued to increase, particularly in manufacturing. Unemployment
reached almost 14% of the labor force at the end of the year, up from about
7% at the end of 1981. Inflation, however, slowed down in 1983 to a 20%
average for the year, down from 28% in 1981 and 25% in 1982.
9.        After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit of about
US$1.4 billion emerged in the resource balance in 1981 and increased to
average about US$1.8 billion in 1982-83. These deficits resulted mainly from
a drop in exports in real terms: in addition to domestic factors, major
reasons were the slowdown in world demand, major devaluations and import



-3-
restrictions in neighboring countries, and the reduction in Colombia's coffee
exports from their previous high levels. Net foreign exchange reserves
declined by about US$1.8 billion in 1983 to about US$3.1 billion, equivalent
to about six months of that year's imports of goods and non-factor services.
On the fiscal side, a slowdown in revenue growth, together with increased
current expenditures resulting from a system of automatic transfers to
departments and municipalities and large infrastructure investments in energy
and transport led to growing deficits: the overall Central Government cash
deficit grew from 2.1Z of GDP in 1980 to 4.1Z in 1983, while that of the
consolidated public sector rose from 3.6% to 7.0%.
10.       In 1983 the Government introduced policies to stimulate aggregate
demand, and expand non-coffee exports.  The rate of peso devaluation was
accelerated; the housing construction industry was provided with incentives
to mobilize more resources; and selective credit to the productive sectors
was expanded. Temporary import restrictions were introduced for balance of
payments stabilization in addition to measures to reduce the fiscal deficit
and ease distortions in the financial system. These efforts were
insufficient to reverse the deteriorating trends particularly in light of the
tight international capital market. Colombia, unlike other Latin American
countries, has not had a debt problem because of the high share of official
debt in total debt outstanding and the term structure of such debt.
Nevertheless, the Latin American debt problem produced a reduction in the
credit lines available to Colombia and difficulties in obtaining medium-term
loans needed to complete ongoing projects, which contributed in turn to
further declines in foreign exchange reserves and to strains in the financial
system.
11.       During 1984-85 Government policy began to focus increasingly on:
additional revenue and expenditure measures to contain the fiscal deficit and
monetary expansion; acceleration of the exchange rate devaluations, further
increased incentives to exports; measures to improve the profitability of the
commercial banking and to resolve the external debt problems of the private
sector. The policy reforms began to take hold during the second half of
1984. Real GDP growth increased to 3.1%, the unemployment rate fell to 13Z
of the labor force at year's end while inflation was brought down to 16.4% on
average in 1984. Merchandise exports grew at about 12%; the current account
deficit in the balance of payments was reduced by about US$1 billion to over
5% of GDP, and reserves remained at about US$1.8 billion at year end (four
months of 1984's imports of goods and n.f.s.). The policies were deepened in
1985 producing a sharp and sustained adjustment thus far. The current
account in the balance of payments registered a significant improvement in
1985 declining to a deficit of nearly 4.0% of GDP.  Inflation remained under
control at less than 23%, while economic growth continued at a modest rate
below 3%, although the unemployment rate remains higher than in recent
years.  In contrast to a US$1.3 billion fall in 1984 and a projected fall of
US$50 million in 1985, net reserves increased by US$267 million in 1985.
D.  Growth and Balance of Payments
12.       With further policy improvements during 1986-87, Colombia's growth
prospects for the rest of the decade would be good. At this stage,
projections are made difficult by the recently emerging international coffee
situation which could mean a foreign exchange boom for Colombia in 1986,
depending on the severity of production shortfall of coffee in Brazil.
Although the following forecasts do not take into account these



-4-
possibilities, preliminary calculations suggest that the medium-term
scenarios would not be affected substantially: 1986--and possibly 1987---how-
ever, would witness a greater reserve accumulation and increased debt repay-
ments than envisaged below. The current account deficit of the balance of
payments was projected to average about US$1.3 billion per year during
1985-86 (equivalent to less than 4% of GDP). The deficit was projected to be
financed by increasing disbursements of existing and new public and private
sector loans and by direct foreign investment. By the end of this period,
net official international reserves would have been maintained at a level of
about four and a half months of 1986 imports of goods and non-factor
services. Total investment would have to be maintained at over 18.5% of GDP
to complete energy and mining projects; and to avoid too large an increase in
foreign indebtedness, gross domestic savings would need to average about 18%
of GOP compared to 16.4% during 1981-84, with the public sector generating a
significant part of the additional savings. Beyond 1986, real GDP growth
should resume at near historical rates, over 4.5% per year on average. The
current account deficit should also improve rapidly from 1987 on as a result
of increasing export proceeds from new non-traditional exports (particularly
crude petroleum and coal), declining to some 1.6% of GDP by 1990.
13.       Total gross external medium- and long-term capital requirements
(including the private sector) are projected to total about US$5.6 billion
for the 1985-86 period. Net foreign investment is expected to account for
US$750 million during 1985-86, most of which would be to complete existing
energy projects. About US$3.9 billion is expected from multilateral, bilate-
ral and other sources, while about US$1 billion will be the new money needed
from commercial banks mainly to complete petroleum and coal projects for
export. At the end of 1984, Colombia's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term external debt, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
US$8.0 billion (22% of GDP). The Bank/IDA share of this external debt i.e.
excluding non-guaranteed private was 22.8% which is expected to reach less
than 25% by 1986. The public debt service ratio in 1984 was 23.5% and is
expected to peak at about 30% in 1987 and then decline gradually to below 30%
in 1990. The World Bank's share in M&LT public debt service (excluding non-
guaranteed private) is expected to be less than 24% during 1985-86. With
sound economic and financial management and the development of new export
activities, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and
beyond the 1985-90 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
14.       With the rural transport sector project presented today, the pro-
posed loan, the 118th to be made to Colombia, would bring the total amount of
Bank loans to Colombia to US$5,205.2 million (net of cancellations). Of this
amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1985, US$3,758.3 million; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Disbursements have been
completed on 72 loans and the IDA credit. Before 1979, disbursements
averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but had increased to US$286
million in FY84 and to US$591 million in FY85, reflecting in part the higher
level of commitments in the late 1970s and efforts to build the pipeline.
While disbursements in Colombia have been slower than those recorded in the
Latin American Region for similar projects, concentrated efforts to overcome



problems to initiate prolect execution have resulted in a significant
increase in disbursements during FY84 and FY85. Improving performance of
social sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the
gradual containment of inflationary pressures and the effects of the
recently-introduced fiscal reforms, which should imaprove counterpart funding,
all point to a higher level of disbursements in the future.  IFC has made
investments and underwriting commutments of US$144.2 million in 29 enter-
prises and as of September 30, 1985, it held US$67.3 million. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments
as of September 30, 1985.
15.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified.  Although through the mid-1960s, 88% of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its
participation in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecom-
munications, urban development, petroleum development, export diversifica-
tion, nutrition and health. By the late 1970s, 53% of the loans made to
Colombia were for projects other than transport and power. Of the loans made
since 1978, 36% were for power.and transport, 15% for industry, 17% for agri-
culture and irrigation, 10% for water supply, 6% for urban, 4% for telecom-
munications, 2% each for petroleum development and export diversification and
8Z for education, nutrition and multipurpose projects. The diversification
was indeed a desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader
range of Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has served
to identify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and,
thus, to enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's
presence can have a meaningful impact.
16.       The Bank's dialogue with the Government has focused upon the need
to mobilize additional domestic resources, to diversify and expand exports,
to develop rapidly the country's energy resources, and to free the economy
from excessive controls. The discussions involved fiscal, interest rate and
pricing policies, as well as incentives for exports and reduction in the
level of effective protection. Positive results have been obtained particu-
larly in the power bector, where power rates were increased sharply and a
least-cost expansion was formulated and launched. Similar results have been
achieved in respect of some other public services, including appropriate
charges for water for irrigation and domestic use and petroleum prices.
17.       The Bank has been supporting the Government's efforts to increase
economic growth and exports with financial stability, raise utilization of
domestic energy sources, provide key infrastructure, and improve the living
conditions of the poor. More recently, in response to Colombia's adjustment
process the thrust of the Bank's support has shifted towards loans to finance
directly productive activities, such as agriculture and industry, support
efforts to raise productivity, income and employment, increase and diversify
exports and help develop renewable sources of energy through lending for
hydropower and arranging associated cofinancing. Loans recently approved by
the Board and in advanced stage of preparation reflect the emphasis on: (i)



-6-
increasing output rapidly; (ii) reorienting production towards exports and
efficient import-competing goods; (iii) supporting quick-yielding infrastruc-
ture investments, particularly those that enable the use existing facilities
more intensively; and (iv) increasing resource mobilization.
18.       The Bank's lending in FY85 consisted of loans for agricultural
diversification, small-scale industry, petroleum, development banking, water
supply and sewerage and trade policy and export diversification totalling
US$707.5 million.. The trade policy project is designed to support the first
phase of trade policy adjustments in Colombia. In addition to the loan pre-
sented in this report, the current program includes the already approved
loans for public health, port rehabilitation, electricity distribution and
water supply along with the loan for rural transport, also presented today,
and the soon to be presented trade and agriculture policy loan. Work is
underway on projects for agricultural technology transfer, power and energy
sector development, and financial and public sector management. In infra-
structure, the Bank is stressing rehabilitation, modernization and a more
intensive use of the existing facilities in port improvement, water supply
and highway maintenance. Finally, several projects in preparation will also
support the Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the popula-
tion. Along with the project described in this report, proposed lending for
further rural development, agricultural credit, and water supply and waste,
will help improve the standard of living of the poor, while being designed to
make better use of existing capacity and reduce losses.
19.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the
eighties. IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related projects, in
addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian
reform, university education, water supply, rural electrification and land
erosion control, which are aimed at improving living standards of the
lower-income population. In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia in
developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive sector
activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.



-7-
PART III - THE AGEICULTURhL SECTOR
Agriculture's Importance to the National Economy
20.       Agriculture is the most important sector in the Colombian economy,
accounting for about 22Z of GDP. Within the sector, crop and livestock
products contribute about 52% and 43%, respectively, to the gross value of
production; the remaining coming from other rural activities. Agriculture
provides employment for two million people, or a quarter of the national
labor force. The sector's share in the country's total registered merchan-
dise exports fluctuated between 67% and 75% in recent years. Of the total
value of agricultural exports of US$2 billion in 1983, coffee accounted for
73%, followed by bananas (7Z) and flowers (6%). Agricultural imports repre-
sent 7.5% of Colombia's total registered imports for 1983. The main agricul-
tural imports are wheat, soybeans and fish products. Yields of rice,
sugarcane, coffee, cotton and bananas are comparable with international
levels, but for many other commodities, they are low and the scope for
improvement is substantial. The performance of the livestock subsector has
been sluggish over the last decade, and only small productivity increases
were achieved.
21.       The national territory totals 112 million ha.   This apparent
abundance belies the fact that 93 million ha, or 83% of the total land, have
no or limited crop potential and are used mainly for grazing and forestry.
Of the remainder, 13 million ha is on sloped land in the interandean valleys
only suitable for non-mechanized agriculture consisting of inter-cropping
with permanent crops; 3.8 million ha could be used for modern agriculture
after providing some type of land reclamation works (flood control, drainage
and irrigation); and only 1.7 million ha is suitable for modern mechanized
agriculture without restrictions. Structural problems in agriculture are the
uneven land distribution and poor land use: in some parts of the country
good crop land is used for extensive grazing and marginal land for cultiva-
tion. Ccuntryside violence is limited in areas with high population density,
but widespread in newly colonized areas where no clear title to the land
exists. This situation acts as a disincentive to private sector investment,
as does the decline in agricultural profitability caused by a decrease in
commodity prices relative to the cost of agricultural inputs.
Sectoral Performance
22.       The recent performance of the sector has been heavily affected by
macroeconomic policies and by external events.  After expanding at rates of
above 4% during the seventies, the growth rate in agriculture fell to 1.3%
during 1980-84. During the first half of the seventies, agricultural growth
was based on the dynamism of non-coffee agricultural exports, which expanded
at an average annual rate of nearly 10% in real terms. In the second half of
the 1970s, the coffee boom became the driving force, while growth of non-
coffee agricultural exports decreased to less than 7Z per annum. In
contrast, during 1981-84 coffee exports were greatly affected by depressed
international markets while non-coffee exports showed a negative growth
rate.  The decline (in volume and in terms of prices) of coffee and non-
coffee exports explains almost 80% of the fall in agricultural GDP growth
during the 1981-84 period.



23.       Five factors explain the decline in the export and overall perform-
ance: (a) unfavorable international conditions for agricultural commodities
exported by Colombia (coffee, sugar, cotton, beef); (b) macro- economic
policies in the late seventies leading to appreciation of the exchange rate
and a reduction in export promotion. As the balance of payments deteriorated
in the early 1980s, protection levels were raised first by increasing import
duties and later by imposing import quotas; (c) sector-specific policies,
consisting of export restrictions for a number of commodities and import
restrictions for agricultural inputs due to foreign exchange constraints;
(d) reduction of government investments in agriculture since the mid-1970s
and inadequate institutional capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture to
ensure appropriate design and execution and therefore maximum benefit from
these limited investments; and (e) a rapid increase of the real agricultural
minimum wage rate in 1979 (32%) and again between 1982 and 1984, contributing
to a rise in production costs. (Labor costs amounted to some 32% of the
gross value of agricultural output in 1982.)
Sectoral Institutional Framework
24.       The formulation and execution of public sector agricultural policy
and programs involve a sizeable number of institutions. The Ministry of
Agriculture has primary responsibility, and within it the Agricultural Sector
Planning Office (OPSA) has the responsibility for planning and coordinating
sector activities. OPSA maintains a close relationship with the agriculture
and global investment divisions of the National Planning Department (DNP),
since they have to approve the sector's development plan and investment
program. The Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) is responsible for agri-
cultural research and extension. The Agricultural Marketing Institute
(IDEMA) promotes the national marketing of crops and intervenes by procuring
agricultural commodities to influence prices to the consumer and the
producer. The Agrarian Reform Institute (INCORA) carries out programs of
land distribution and farm support. The Natural Resources Institute
(INDERENA) is mainly responsible for protecting the environment. The
Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement (HIMAT)
is in charge of irrigation and drainage works and associated land improve-
ments, in addition to hydrology and meteorology. In addition to these public
sector institutions, well-organized private commodity-based agricultural
producer organizations exist. These organizations are a dynamic force in
agricultural development and provide a wide range of services to their
members.
25.       The bulk of agricultural credit comes from two principal sources:
the Agricultural Financing Fund (FFAP) and the Agricultural, Industrial and
Mining Credit Bank (CAJA). FFAP is a rediscount window of the Bank of the
Republic (BOR) from which funds are onlent by banking institutions, mostly to
commercial farmers. Total credit to the agricultural sector from all sources
amounted to Col$ 85 billion (US$840 million) in 1984. In that year, FFAP
provided 68% of the resources onlent to agriculture. CAJA is the principal
source of credit to the small farm sector. In addition, there are other
sources of agricultural credit, such as the Livestock Bank, the Coffee Bank
and the Financial Corporation for Agriculture and Export Promotion. Agricul-
tural interest rates are generally lower than for other productive sectors.
For FFAP resources, effectiv'± rates are 24-26%, while CAJA's rates aiverage
slightly less.



Government Strategy for Agricultural Production
26.       In its strategy to revitalize the economy, the Government has
accorded high priority to agricultural development, given its importance in
terms of foreign exchange earnings, and overall economic growth and employ-
ment. Agricultural productivity and production are being encouraged through
programs and actions aimed at: (a) generating and diffusing agricultural
technology; (b) rehabilitating existing irrigation lands; (c) providing
credit; (d) diversifying agricultural production in the coffee zones; and (e)
improving sector planning capacity and efficiency of public sector institu-
tions. To lower the costs of agricultural inputs, the Government has
reorganized CAJA, a major supplier of agricultural credit and key inputs, to
increase its efficiency and effectiveness.  To strengthen agricultural
marketing, it has set up a special marketing fund in FFAP. The Government
has also redefined the functions of IDEMA to avoid financial losses in the
future.
27.       While these investment programs and institutional reforms are
designed to increase agricultural production and incomes and improve
efficiency in the agricultural service institutions, the Government is in the
process of undertaking a series of macroeconomic, trade and sectoral policy
measures that will restore profitability and private investment in the
sector. These measures encompass macroeconomic policies and also address the
following specific trade and agricultural topics: (a) export and import
restrictions; (b) agricultural input and output trade policy; (c) coffee
policy; (d) credit policy; (e) public investment in the sector; and (f)
institutional strengthening. Policy actions in these areas will be supported
under a planned Trade and Agricultural Policy Loan.
Bank Role in the Sector
28.       Since 1966, the Bank has made 15 loans totalling USS463.0 million
equivalent. Three of these loans have been for agricultural credit, two for
livestock development, two for colonization, three for irrigation/drainage,
two to support the Government's rural development program, one for a pilot
watershed management project, one for an agricultural research project, and
the most recent one for an agricultural diversification project in coffee
areas. Most of the projects have focused on increasing productivity, incomes
and welfare of small farmers; all, except the last one, were executed by
public sector institutions.
29.       In the years ahead, the Bank intends to increase its lending in
support of the Government's efforts to modernize the sector and to maximize
its contribution to socioeconomic development. Emphasis will be given to
projects with a strong production impact and on improving the effectiveness
and efficiency of the most important agricultural public sector institu-
tions. Private sector agricultural producer organizations are also being
drawn into the project preparation and execution process to ensure their
support for the ensuing investment programs. Agricultural sector work has
been intensified through two reports: 'Colombian Agriculture: Selected
Issues and Some Directions for Strategy" (Report No. 4275-CO, January 1983),
and 'Colombia-External Sector and Agriculture Policies for Adjustment and
Growth' (Report No. 4981-CO, April 1984). These reports have deepened the



- 10 -
policy dialogue and have provided a strong basis on which to formulate the
proposed project and the Trade and Agricultural Policy Loan, which were
appraised at about the same time. Other projects under preparation for the
sector cover a wide spectrum, namely: agricultural extension, agricultural
credit, agricultural marketing, watershed management, and rural development.
Experience with Past Projects
30.       Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for six of the
projects (Loans 502-CO, Atlantico Irrigation; 624-CO, Agricultural Credit;
651-CO, Second Livestock Development; 739-CO, Caqueta Land Colonization;
849-CO, Second Atlantico Development; and 1163-CO, Cordoba II Agriculture
Development).  An Impact Evaluation Report on the Atlantico Irrigation
Project was issued in 1982. While these projects were by and large success-
ful, the irrigation and drainage projects experienced some technical diffi-
culties and were hampered by INCORA's institutional weaknesses. Subse-
quently, the irrigation functions have been transferred from INCORA to a new
institution, HIMAT.
The Irrigation Authority
31.       The Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land
Improvement (HIMAT) was established in 1976 as an autonomous public entity
attached to the Ministry of Agriculture. It took over public sector irriga-
tion and drainage investments from INCORA, which had carried them out in con-
junction with land reform. HIMAT has a Board of Directors composed of repre-
sentatives of public sector institutions. Its General Manager is appointed
by the President of the Republic and he is supported by adequate technical
staff in various disciplines. HIMAT obtains approximately 82% of its
resources from Government transfers, with the rest emanating largely from
water tariffs. In 1984 HIMAT's budget was US$40.0 million and its total
staff some 1,900 people.
32.       The experience with HIMAT under the ongoing Irrigation Rehabilita-
tion I Project (Loan 1996-C0): on which the proposed project is based, har
been good. Total loan disbursements of 65%, two and one-half years before
the closing date, are well ahead of the Bank disbursement profile for
Colombia. HIMAT has improved significantly its competence with respect to
technical matters. It has established good monitoring systems for agricul-
tural production and O&M costs. Its performance in increasing O&M cost
recovery in accordance with a long-term plan agreed and annually reviewed
with the Bank is generally on target, except in one district. However, its
capacity for economic and financial analysis and for promoting intensive land
use still needs further strengthening. Farmers' response to the improved
service provided by HIMAT has been positive and increases in yields in many
cases exceed those estimated at appraisal.
The Irrigation Subsector
33.       Although it is estimated that two to three million ha can technic-
ally be irrigated or reclaimed, land under private and public irrigation
accounts for only about 570,000 ha, or roughly 11% of Colombia's cultivated
area. Public investment for irrigation commenced in the 1940s and expanded



- 11 -
during the land reform program during the 1960s. Today, about 80% of
irrigation occurs in private schemes developed by highly productive,
large-scale farmers. In the public schemes, which include drainage
districts, the majority of farms are small. Land reform beneficiaries
account for about one-third of the approximately 20,000 farmers in such
districts.
34.       The area of the 25 public irrigation and drainage districts covers
275,000 ha. Of this area, 32% lacks infrastructure because the works were
never completed or water resources are insufficient. Since irrigation
schemes have a strong political impact, new districts were started at the
cost of cutting resources for the completion of earlier constructed
districts. The same attitude has resulted in inadequate allocations for
operation and maintenance (O&M), which has resulted in a great loss of public
investment prior to the start of the Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project.
35.       Five problems are related to poor development in public schemes:
(a) the Government's policy that public construction should terminate at tbe
farm outlet, leaving necessary on-farm development to the initiative of the
individual farmer; and (b) the presence of large-scale farmers, who are
interested in maximizing returns to minimal annual costs rather than maxi-
mizing returns per hectare, thus continuing with extensive grazing. Both (a)
and (b) result in 215,000 ha of unirrigated low value pastures, scrub land,
fallow and subsistence crops still existing in the public irrigation and
drainage districts; (c) reluctance of farmers to apply supplemental irriga-
tion for crops other than rice, resulting in the annual harvest of only
122,000 ha of irrigated crops from the 110,000 ha with infrastructure inside
the public irrigation districts instead of a potential 220,000 ha; (d) lack
of Government pressure forcing EIMAT to cover its annual O&M costs from
tariffs: nationwide only 36% of these costs are recovered from water
ch-arges. The balance has to be supplied from public subsidies, an unreliable
source in periods of fiscal restraint and changing government priorities; and
(e) lack of knowledge in public authorities about the high costs and low pro-
ductivity levels in the public irrigation and drainage districts. In the
past, this has led to official endorsement of requests for investments in new
irrigation districts before completing the existing districts.
36.       In the context of the agricultural policy dialogue and the public
sector investment review, the Government and the Bank have agreed that major
new irrigation districts should only be considered once the existing infra-
structure is fully used. Furthermore, the Government and the Bank now agree
on the importance of strengthening water users' associations, so that
eventually management of these facilities can be transferred to them. There-
fore, a program of rehabilitation, completion and extension of the existing
districts has been developed within the constraints of available water
resources. Once a reliable irrigation service is established, HIMAT will
gradually improve the recovery of O&M costs thereby eliminating the need for
further budgetary allocations. Also, once full O&M cost recovery is
achieved, plans are that district management will be transferred to water
users' associations. These two measures together will reduce HIMAT's depend-
ence on Government transfers and protect existing public irrigation invest-
ments against the changes in priorities of future governments. The two



- 12 -
public districts presently under such management are recovering 110% of their
O&H costs.
37.       The rehabilitation program foresaw the rehabilitation of the 15
most important districts in two phases. Phase I (Loan 1996-CO, effective
since August 1982) includes eight districts covering 47,000 ha (net). The
proposed project would rehabilitate six of the remaining districts, the
seventh cannot be rehabilitated without permanently subsidizing pumping
costs, unless a feasible technical alternative is found. Since rehabilita-
tion builds on sizeable past infrastructure investments, it involves little
risk to economic viability. The question of whether scarce public resources
should be allocated to large public supplemental irrigation schemes would
have to be closely scrutinized in each case.
38.       In the effort to improve HIMAT's performance, the Bank's involve-
ment not only focuses on full recovery of O&M costs, but also (a) reducing
O&M costs through rationalization of O&M procedures, (b) improving the
economy of scale through the increase of contributing hectares, and (c)
improving the recovery ratio of receipts over billings.
mT  iV - ME n      cr
Background
39.       The proposed project would support irrigation rehabilitation and
development and is a follow-on from the first phase project that was
supported by the Bank under the Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project
(Loan 1996-CO). The proposed project builds on the success of the first
project which rehabilitated eight districts. Under that project, which was
approved in May 1981, civil works are about 70% completed and increases in
yields in some cases already exceed those estimated to be achieved after
project completion. The proposed project was prepared by six Colombian con-
sulting firms contracted by HIMAT; four FAO/CP missions provided technical
assistance to these firms. It was appraised by the Bank in June 1985, and
negotiations took place in February 1986. The Colombian delegation was led
by Dra. Clemencia Gomez, Vice Minister of Agriculture.
Project Objectives
40.       The objectives of the project would be to:  (a) increase crop pro-
duction on 108,000 ha in six districts, through rehabilitation and improved
technical and extension services leading to more intensive land use; (b)
improve the incomes of some 3,900 poor farmers located on about 7,800 ha in
the foothills of the Andes and in the savannah country of northern Colombia
through small-scale irrigation development; (c) partially restore agricul-
tural production in the area affected by the recent volcanic disaster through
reconstruction and addition of irrigatior facilities; and (d) improve the
sustainability of public irrigation investments through full recovery of O&M
costs and the building up of water users' associations in the irrigation
districts covered by the project. The Bank's role in supporting the project



- 13 -
would be to improve the returns on public investment in irrigation and the
efficiency and effectiveness of HIMAT, and to strengthen water users' asso-
ciations. To this end, the project has been designed to intensify land use,
to improve HIMAT's water charge policies and collection rates in the
districts to be rehaDilitated and to induce HIMAT to gradually transfer its
management responsibilities regarding maintenance and operation to the
private sector.
Project Description
41.       In order to achieve its objectives, the project would:
(a) design and construct small rehabilitation works covering some
108,000 ha in the six districts of Abrego, Saldana, Coello, Maria
La Baja, Prado de Sevilla and La Doctrina (map IBRD 19223). Apart
from numerous small civil works, there would be some larger works
entailing: (i) major drainage and flood protection in Saldana,
Maria La Baja and Prado de Sevilla; (ii) a diversion weir with
sedimentation structure in Saldana; (iii) a second intake with
sedimentation structure, 1.8 km tunnel and a 30 km main canal in
Coello; (iv) water control structures and a sma-l diversion dam in
Maria La Baja; (v) rehabilitation of nine small river intakes with
sedimentation structures in Prado de Sevilla; and (vi) construction
of shrimp farming ponds in La Doctrina which is better suited for
shrimp production, because of its saline soils and proximity to
marketing facilities in Cartagena;
(b) replace obsolete irrigation maintenance equipment to enable HIMAT
to carry out its maintenance program in the six districts covered
by the project;
Cc) train district water users' associations, particularly in admlnis-
tration and accounting, to enable them to begin taking over the
management of irrigation districts from HIMAT;
fd)  provide technical assistance and demonstration areas to promote
farmer acceptance of supplemental irrigation, improved cultivation
practices, shrimp culture techniques and more intensive land use;
(e) make available short- and medium-term credit for improving crop and
livestock management practices and for on-farm development;
(f) control erosion on some 3,000 ha in badly affected areas through
reforestation, terracing and gully control;
(g) develop small-scale, new irrigation schemes covering some 7,800 ha
in the foothills of the Andes and in the savannah country of
Northern Colombia where small farms are concentrated and where
small-scale irrigation potential exists. Two types of development
are foreseen: (i) tapping of perennial streams coming from the
high Andes with gravity distribution of water through underground
PVC pipelines. Application would be through garden-type sprinklers
to irrigate mostly vegetables; and (ii) darming of intermittent



-14-
streams in the North for irrigation of pastures and garden crops.
About 150 such schemes would be developed, ranging in size from
10 to 200 ha. Average irrigated holdings would be 2 ha and the
maximum would be 10 ha. This component builds on the success of
four such schemes which are under operation;
(h)  reconstruct irrigation facilities on 5,000 ha and provide new
irrigation development on about 8,000 ha in the area around Armero,
which has been affected by the eruption of the Ruiz Volcano; and
(i) provide funds to prepare new irrigation investments.
42.       The project is expected to be carried out over six years.  It
includes consulting services for design work and supervision of construction
amounting to some 90 man-years and about 200 man-years of technical services
for surveying and mapping. An additional 6 man-years of technical assistance
would be contracted to provide the technology for shrimp farming. During
negotiations, HIMAT provided assurances that it would employ consultants with
qualifications, terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to enable
effective implementation of design, surveying, and construction supervision
under the project.
Project Implementation
43.       HIMAT would be responsible for carrying out the proposed project,
except for the credit component (see para. 45). All civil works, technical
assistance and engineering services would be done under contract in accord-
ance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, HIMAT
provided assurances that it would maintain a unit to supervise Project imple-
mentation with staffing, functions and organizational structure satisfactory
to the Bank. At that time, HIMAT also provided assurances that the Project
Coordination Unit would submit annual progress reports to the Bank by June 30
of each year; such reports would include information on the status of
physical works under the project, progress in having water users' associa-
tions increase their responsibilities in irrigation districts, the impact on
agricultural production, intensification of land use, and the levels of cost
recovery achieved. By July 31 of each year, DNP would provide the Bank with
its comments on the annual progress report.
44.       For this proposed rehabilitation project, the scattered nature of
the repair work does not require a rigid schedule of phasing. However, the
following elements are the most urgent, and contracts for their implementa-
tion would begin in the first year of the project: (a) technical assistance
to farmers by crop federations; (b) construction of a diversion weir with
improved intake on the Saldana river; (c) a new intake on the Cucuana river
in Coello with a new main supply canal; (d) repair and electrification of the
main gates in the existing intake towers in Maria La Baja; (e) installation
of a refrigerated milk collection center in Abrego; (f) reconstruction of
nine small intakes in Prado de Sevilla; (g) the construction of the first
100 ha of shrimp cultivation ponds in La Doctrina; and (h) reconstruction of
destroyed irrigation facilities near Armero.
45.       FFAP would provide credit for incremental on-farm investment
through the banking system. The project's total short- and medium-term
credit requirement of US$54.1 million equivalent, when spread over the



- 15 -
project period would amount to less than 1% of the 1984 institutional lending
for agriculture. No Bank financing of the credit component is proposed under
this project. While the medium and large scale farmers have little
difficulty obtaining credit, small-scale farmers (i.e., below 10 ha)
frequently have difficulties obtaining institutional credit since they must
show that they will receive technical assistance from an approved agency or
private source. To overcome this, the procedures developed under the ongoing
irrigation loan would be used whereby HIMAT would contract private crop
federations, ICA, and individuals to provide extension services. The
National Apprenticeship Service (SENA) would be contracted to provide
specialized training for farmers, water users' associations, and technical
assistance for the small-scale irrigation component. The signing of the
technical assistance contracts covering the major crops in each district and
the training contract with SENA would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Loan. During negotiations, the Government also provided assurances that the
necessary credit for on-farm development would be made available by FFAP
through financial intermediaries.
Status of Project Preparation
46.       Bidding documents have been completed for US$6 million of equipment
and for technical assistance. Design contracts for the major civil works
have been awarded. Financing for the design contracts is included in the
ongoing Irrigation Rehabilitation loan. For the small-scale irrigation
component, 70 schemes have been identified and designs for ten of these have
been completed, sufficient for the first year's implementation. The request
to include funds for volcanic disaster relief measures was received in
December 1985. Therefore this component could not be appraised.
Presentation of feasibility studies and final designs would be a condition of
disbursement for this component.
Project Cost
47.       The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$257.5 million, of which US$114 million, or 44% corresponds to the foreign
exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 15% have been applied to civil
works only and amount to US$12.2 million, or 6% of base costs. Costs are
based on April 1986 prices and include expected price increases over the
implementation period of US$46.8 million, or about 22% of base costs, plus
physical contingencies.  Price increases were computed using the Bank's
projections for international and local inflation and for the changes in the
local currency exchange rate.
Financing
48.       The proposed Bank loan of US$114 million would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange costs or 44% of total project cost exclusive of taxes. The
balance of project costs would be financed as follows: US$59.9 million
equivalent, or 23%, by HIMAT from Government budgetary transfers; US$54.1
million, or 21%, by the banking system; and US$29.5 million, or 12X, by
beneficiaries. A breakdown of project costs is presented in the Loan and
Project Summary.



- 16 -
Procurement
49.       Three civil works contracts totalling US$29.5 million would be
tendered under ICB. These are the diversion weir in Saldana, the Cucuana
intake, tunnel and canal in Coello and the Corral-Hatuya dam in Maria La
Baja. Assurances were obtained that HIMAT would submit the design of this
dam to a safety review panel before its construction, and that the dam would
be periodically inspected after construction. The remaining civil works are
small (less than US$2.5 million each) and dispersed in space and time. They
are unlikely to attract international firms and would be procured under LCB
procedures that would be acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for heavy equip-
ment and vehicles of more than US$300,000 each would be procured under ICB,
while items such as motorcycles, office and workshop equipment would be
procured under LCB procedures that would be acceptable to the Bank. To be
acceptable to the Bank, Colombian LCB procedures would have to allow inter
alia: (i) participation of foreign contractors and consultants without
requiring association with local firms; (ii) no exceptions to the rule to
award to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (iii) use of market rates for ship-
ping costs in bid evaluations. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that (a) HIMAT would follow procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank;
and that (b) for all contracts for works of US$700,000 or more and for goods
of US$300,000 or more, the Bank's prior approval would be required before
invitations to bid are issued and before contracts are awarded. About 20% of
the value of civil works contracts and 83Z of the value of equipment con-
tracts would receive prior review by the Bank.
Procurement Procedures and Bank Financing
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                 Total
Project Element             ICB        LCB        Other      N.A.       Cost
Civil Works                29.5       82.7        27.6       2.0        141.8
(19.2)     (53.8)      (17.8)     (1.3)       (92.1)
Equipment                   9.9        1.6         0.4       -           11.9
(8.9)      (1.4)       (0.4)                (10.7)
Credit & Farmer             -          -           -        79.4         79.4
Contribution                                              (-)          (-)
Technical Services          -          -          11.7       5.5         17.2
(Extension &                                    (7.6)     (3.6)       (11.2)
Consultants)
Incremental Operating       -          -           -         7.2          7.2
Expenses and Land                                          C-)          (-)
Total                      39.4       84.3        39.7      94.1        257.5
Total Financed by Bank   (28.1)      (55.2)      (25.8)     (4.9)      (114.0)
Note: Other Procurement Methods consist mostly of local limited competitive
bidding requiring at least three bidders.
Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be disbursed by the
Bank.



- 17 -
Disbursements
50.       Disbursements would take place over an eight-year period and were
computed according to the Bank's disbursement profile for Colombia except
that 100% of the loan would be disbursed by the end of Year 8, whereas the
profile is for 98% disbursement by Year 8, and 100% by Year 9. Disbursements
would be made for 100% of the foreign expenditures for equipment, vehicles
and foreign consultants, 90% of expenditures for locally procured equipment
and 65% of expenditures for civil works, including the small-scale irrigation
component, technical assistance, training and local engineering consultants.
All disbursements would be against statements of expenditures except for
contracts exceeding US$1 million, for which submission of full documentation
would be required in accordance with Bank guidelines. Retroactive financing
of up to US$4 million for expenditures made after July 1, 1985, on account of
civil works, goods and consultants have been included in the loan.
51.       At negotiations, an assurance was obtained from HIMAT that it would
establish a Special Account in Banco de la Republica, in US dollars, to cover
all eligible Bank expenditures under the loan over a four-month period. The
Bank would make an initial deposit of up to US$8.0 million upon receipt of
withdrawal applications. An assurance was also obtained that HIMAT would
establish a Project Account for an amount equivalent to US$4.0 million to
cover counterpart expenditures, and that by June 30, 1987, this Project
Account would be fully funded. The establishment and release of a peso
amount equivalent to US$1.2 million (initial deposit) into the Project
Account would be a condition of effectiveness. Subsequent replenishments by
the Bank into the Special Account would follow the normal procedures.
Accounts and Audit
52.       Project accounts would be maintained by HIMAT in accordance with
consistently applied, sound accounting principles and methods, as has been
the experience under the ongoing loan. Project accounts, including the
Special and Project Accounts and statements of expenditures, would be audited
annually by the Controller General of Colombia which has been found satisfac-
tory by the Bank. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained from HIMAT that
audit reports would be submitted within six months of the close of each
fiscal year.
Cost Recovery
53.       Water charges are levied by a combination of a fixed per hectare
chargc and a volumetric tariff.  In two of the six districts covered by the
project, Saldana and Coello, water use-s' associations recover the full
annual costs of operation, maintenance and administration. HIMAT manages the
other four districts under the proposed project, and recovery of annual O&M
costs are still significantly below 100%. These districts are in a poor
condition and the resulting limited number of farmers receiving full
irrigation services is insufficient to recover full O&M costs in those
districts.



- 18-
54.       The project would concentrate on rehabilitating the irrigation
system in order to provide farmers with a reliable service. At negotiations
an agreement was obtained from HIMAT on the annual O&M recovery targets for
each district, based on the progress of extending service coverage. Full O&M
cost recovery in each district would be a function of the time at which all
farmers receive full service. Individual farmers will pay their pro-rated
share of the O&M cost not later than two years after receiving such service.
In the aggregate, and based on current projected implemenation schedules, for
the different districts, this means that full O&M cost recovery will be
achieved on average within eight years. In its annual review of the project
progress report (para. 43) DNP would specifically comment on the adequacy of
cost recovery levels achieved.
55.       At negotations, assurances were obtained that two years after the
completion of civil works in any district, RIMAT would start investment cost
recovery, through a land betterment tax, according to the regulations of the
Colombian Land Valorization Law. This law foresees a repaymet: perind of
about 15 years and an interest rate corresponding to FFAP's rate for 'and
improvement loans, presently at 22%. Farmers owning less than 3 hectares
would be exempted from paying investment cost recovery.   This provision,
together with technical assistance and the establishment of a reliable
irrigation service can be expected to accelerate ir.tensive land use. For the
district of La Doctrina, financial viability of shrimp farming would have to
be demonstrated on the first 100 ha of the shrimp development as a condition
for disbursements for subsequent extensions.
56.       For the small-scale irrigation development to be supported under
the project, the number of schemes and their small size preclude the possib-
ility of a permanent HIMAT presence for their operation and maintenance.
Therefore, they would be farmer-operated. No widespread problems with
respect to operation and maintenance are expected, given the good experience
in exist±ng farmer-operated small schemes.
Production, Marketing and Financial Analysis
57.       The annual value of incremental production generated by the pro-
ject, about USS89 million equivalent in early 1985 pesos, would come
primarily from crops (95%), shrimp (3%), and livestock (2%). For all crops
but sesame, soybeans and palm oil, the incremental production would be small
relative to national production and would be insufficient to affect prices.
For sesame and palm oil, however, the incremental production would constitute
80% and 26% of national production respectively. Since Colombia is a net
importer of oil seeds, these commodities are not expected to face demand con-
straints and marketing channels are adequate to absorb the increased produc-
tion. Moreover, foreign exchange savings from reduced oil imports would
amount to some US$30 million annually at full development. Based on the
analysis of nine farm investment models, financial rates of return vary
between 20% and 97%, demonstrating that in all cases the private returns to
farmers are expected to be substantial.



- 19 -
Project Benefits and Justification
58.       The project would increase productivity, employment and incomes on
about 6,900 farms in the six districts and on 3,900 farms in the small-scale
irrigation component. It would expand agricultural production significantly
and cpntribute to the expansion of exports of cacao, bananas and shrimp and
import substitution for commodities such as sorghum, milk and vegetable
oils. The project would generate some 6,300 man-years of additional employ-
ment. The present 87,200 ha harvested per year would increase by 55% to
135,200 ha. At full development, after about eight years, average incomes of
farm family beneficiaries would double on average, bringing the majority
above the rural poverty level of US$210 per capita. Currently 2,700 farmers,
or 39%, live below the rural poverty level in the six d±stricts covered by
the project, while in the areas covered by the small-scale irrigation
component some 70%, or 2,700 farmers, are estimated to have incomes below the
poverty level. The present average per capita income of project beneficia-
ries in the six districts is estimated at US$1,400, and would rise to an
estimated US$2,700 at full development. This compares with the 1982 average
per capita GNP of US$1,460. In the poorer areas covered by the small-scale
irrigation component, incomes per capita are expected to increase from
average current levels of US$72 to US$196. The area occupied by the poor
represents about 14X of the total project area of 115,800 ha and about 16% of
the project cost would be allocated to the poor.
59.       The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 28% with a
range between 15% and 40% for the six individual districts. Investments in
the areas covered by the small-scale irrigation component would have a satis-
factory economic rate of return of 20%. Sensitivity analyses indicate that
for the project as a whole, it would take a 69% increase in costs or a 41%
decrease in benefits to bring the rate of return below the Colombian
opportunity cost of capital of 11Z. On the other hand, if more intensive
land use were to be achieved, e.g., from increasing the assumed cropping
intensity of 116Z to 120% at full development, the ERR for the project would
increase to 32%.
Environmental Impact
60.       Tne execution of the proposed project would not increase environ-
mental hazards. It is expected that the technical assistance program would
rather reduce the present indiscriminate use of aerial spraying, because it
would promote the use of terrestrial applications of pesticides. In addition
the project would specifically tackle problem spots in the watersheds of the
districts where there exist about 3,000 ha of badly eroded lands that con-
tribute an excess of sediment. HIMAT would contract the anti-erosion works
(civil works and reforestation) to a specialized firm. The total cost of
this component is estimated at about US$2 million, or about 1% of baseline
cost. To prevent a potential future shortage in obtaining sufficient shrimp
larvae from their wild habitat, HIMAT would contract INDERENA to develop a
technological package for hatcheries development.



-20-
Project Risks
61.       The economic risk appears to be low and is related to a slow
transition towards more intensive land use. At negotiations, an assurance
was obtained from the Government that should there be indications that the
expected transition to intensive land use is slow, the Government would take
corrective measures. The risk associated with shrimp farming in the district
of La Doctrina would be minimized by executing the component in two stages.
The first stage, to be implemented in the first two years of the project,
would cover 100 ha, or 11% of the total area to demonstrate its financial
viability.
PART V - RXKCOHNKDXSION
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 27, 1986



- 21 -                                             ANNEX I
LALLLLJ&im
MA0 L  It           MI
s_~~~~~~~~~~9d  :m11@                                       MI"000
.rnotk i~ioL   utuvuLk     La. AN12M  Gi ORur
Min& CUE' m. no
?A                                1136.9      1110.7      11.9..
403100LU*L                      350.5       350.5       354.6
-s 0*311 (US}                       ..          ..       t o160.0          1us7s.  *1a.3
-  COE                  miii
(K    ua O OLa  30fl*1N            353.0       *ts.d      *o.o               VI.S                     HI.M
IUoa!     m  Tr=L hTaUsU
POPIAiU  Oe-IAR (TOULON)   15734.0    2124.O    27313.0
aUAa  ,oeu.nou C OF 10*.            66.2        17.2       66.1               67.7                      47.5
UOOULAI?0jUCnU                                   I
PUWIAn1o1 zx      2000 aoo(m )                           37.0
r.AnuA3T Fo6=ow  (cULL                                    60.0
pce.ATUu i.uu~u                                            1.a
VOPIAII  OM ITT
m  SQ. RN.                        13A         16.7        21.2              66.0                      64.7
PU I. 33. S. UlE45.0                          60.7        73.6              91.1                     166.6
PONPA2ZON AM3 319C13  CZ)
0-14 TN                          46.7        44.1        37.7               36.                      31.2
1-64 Y3                           30.2        51.0       36.6               57.1                      61.5
631 AnADM                          2.6         2.7         3.8                4.2                      7.2
306OLa10  Glum  I=  CZ)
1n8L                               3.1         3.0         2.0                2.4                      1.6
Uzan                              5.7         3.2         2.7                3.A                      3.7
mu   mm N1 cPU TI0S)                47.2        33A         26.0              30.9                      23.4
Bm llmu3 CPU TmMS)                17.4    U    .7         7.3                6.0                      6.6
cam.--101341K                        3.3         2.6         1.8                2.0                      1.5
15112. PLIUMD1
40W101s. AI5L (7IN)                *-        113.4       132.8 L*
01033 (2 OF PAUMS0 I').                       34.0        33.0              43.3
m a
INK or row no. mU cOgT
(1669-71-100)                      100.0        99.0       117.0             109.4                     109.1
PR CAuITA UUmL OF
CALUZ33S CZ 01 33AUIUU )         102.0        86.0       110.0              113.2                    131.5
1    6s  C3am PU DM               34.0        4.0         37.0 6o.4                                   92.4
* MU=  ANDIAL AM 136             2.0         24.0        23.0              34.2                      34.
;aaD CM   1-4) U3  3U                9.4         GA.         3.0               4.6                       4.7
LXF1  m5CT. AT uMM  (133)           "3.1        36.         6.1               G4.                        7.2
aWM  3NM. 33 (CU Tom)               63.3        70.3       33.0               59.7                      53.3
A       TO un VATER (2OP)
TOM82                             30.0        43.0       92.0               63.3                      70.2
OEM                               34.9        u.o        100.0 L            76.5                      66.A
3334.                             *6.6        23.0        76.0              44.2                      37.0
TOM2                               ..         47.0       63A.               36.3                      39.6
a                                  ..         73.0       100.0              73.                       63.3
303*2.                             .,          6.0         4.0              23.J                      47.6
3CPUUI M PmU CXA0*                240.0       2330U.0                       190A.7                    1070.6
pop. P3C 10333 hUg                42W0.0 L    730.0       600.0              106U2                     769.3
Mi. LP  DD32.33a
TOM2                             30.0        430.0      340.0              362.0                     31.3
Una                                ..        360.0      490.0              422A                      201.6
3URL                               ..          ..          ..              716.7                    4519.7
OUI36  PU WPZUL                      ..         22.9       26.8        1       7.3                      20.0
A31  313 OF UO0SLD
10112.                    ~..         3.7 a       .
U3*                                ..          s.   i      .                  ..
303*2.                    ~..         3.9 R       .
UV3    3. 01 P2U/31
n3*                                ..          1.6          .                 ..
333*1...                              2.6k         ....
3.T.~ 0   32.2 ..3  ..1 EC..
:OUI.                       .      7.0        55.1 a       .                  ..
30331.                    a.o71      13.2 ,       .                   ..



-,.22 -                                                 UIANEX I
TA SL   34                  .                       ,
-         . ~~LCU3TA                - S~ocIAL !Wa986 DATA 513
dm.mmz&                  uuw~~~ auGmo s cwrw   AVUN, &g.
mar         s(Moo  u-r  uumm&b
sm              Id v. tp.    ~           mzu imas
imoLl      19yaL7d!ii Au.          LAT. cMCL G CAR               3301
-03~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Fk=wt  ToAL                       77.0      10A.0       130.0             106.7                     101.9
77.0      107.0       12.0               1I0.5                    101.2
inzz                  n77.0       110.0      132.0              106.6                     97.5
SSODAMUz TTL                      12.0       2.0         48.0 A".2                                   S7
1141                   13.0        25.0       45.0               42.7                     6.9
Isom                   11.0        24.0       51.0                4.                      50.0
ocmaT        CZL(SorSIUUII          30.8 /1    20.2        21.A id            133                      21.0
1U1IL4TZACK 3MM
1ai54                             36.0       38.0        31.0              29.3                      2S.1
stcoim                            11.0       17I.        20.0               t6.7                     19.1
1*8w CI86/ _siI  FM                 5.7       L1.2        16. /d            46.0                      54.2
39x.0 AlVUUImum 10                 125.1      104.3       131.7             323.3                     10.7
TV UWIWSES  DUA      10M             9.5       36.1        86.9  C           L12.4                    149.3
D353 ("=X CGUL
_)AM CUfA=
PM 260860  I0WUATIO               50.0        1SO.7       41.0       *       1.1                      97.0
CrO    1*L           c     u         ..         ..          2                 2.4                       2.7
TTAL  48   1_  (=1u)             4727.0      6353.0      9..0
1MwL z (C    3                    19.2       24          24J               234                       36.3
AGZI JL         CI                51.4       379         25.1 f            31.4                      40.8
D7IJ 1Tcm3)                       19.2       21.0        21.2              24.3                      23.3
TO1AL                             30.0       23J         33.0              33.3                      431
1=                                46.8       65.1        49.4              531J                      55.
VEINS                             11.5       16.4        16.1              13.9                      31.4
zaIII   nicxJum       o              1.7        1.          1.3                1O                       0.9
or ftzAM   Dr
SlinTbas                          41 o   .2 o  ]tb d 31..
glam    2  or _3 311S            67 7         E04         .
LWS! 2001 i  oUS                  2.1         3 S.
La=S 608 OF 305.DS                  .1  ,J    0.1
LUM ( CUS 3 CA11
- CM=                   r na
0339.3                             ..          ..       267.0            5192.
..                                           ..        122.0             35U.7
U m   13g u4380CZ)
u33                                ..         ..         I4.d5J
EA.                               ..          .....
A0 49.LAEZ
Or APLCN
/a  The gzeap e es fox eah £LndcwAt  are peUalUue5La   zusZtea  mean. C0Yezegm ofcncg.i
M_  the Indicators iPemi  an swatlelalAy at daca s       sa mi  ft  .
v lm1  olbeiu_ n dot". 'Dat for 196          e  to _   -- beme  195    , £961; 'Data far 1970 becm
199 m  1971;    data for -"Ibat om     Zsme  bcm  1981 _md 18.
jc  1960; 14  I7-       M         f 19633 !A 193   th 1964; It Mou1ai1  teacer tzatlaSa  at the teutla!y
e  wL1; z7  a: -          ima  ve pelelatlee 
Wm. 1963



ANNEX I
Page  3
DIFINIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Now Althougthedta  drawn(oinf        generllyjudged the mastauthontativc and redibl. it houldalw be noad Lha they may not beintematnafUy
cnspmble becas o the lack of sandard_ d defntions *ad concepts used by diffrnt countnes in colkcing the datL The dat are, nonethl useful tO
desribe ordd of magnitudc. indicat trens and cdarce m inim major diffre c between counti.
The uefhene groups are ( 1t lh staec cuntrq  oup at the subject country an (2) a country group with somewhat higher average incomc than the country
groupoftlheubjet country (excpt or High Income Oil Exponers" group whsc -Middle Income North Afria and Middle Es- is chosen becatue o'stronger
sacocullurl alflinitieas In the rfcrence grmup data the averag as population weightd arnibmetic mcas for ech indicator and swn only when majority
rth mcounuis ins agoup hs data tor that ndieao. Since the covae orcountries amng the indicato depends on th availability ofdaa n is nt tumforin.
caution must be e sedn ,elating average or one idiao tO another. Tbee aveas at only uscful m companag the valuc ton   dcator at a une mong
the county d ramGernee  greups
AREA (thousand sq.kmj.                                             Crude Brin Rate (per thotaidi-Number oflive births in the year
Teed-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters    per thousmnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crude Deart Rate (per tlhoand;-Number of deaths in the year
Agricukual-Estinate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pernanently for crops. pastures. markct and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodutioen Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present agc-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at curre-t          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by sarae conversiut mnethod as Worad    Fnamil Plimiag--Acceprwrs. Annual (rheusuarsls-Annual nuns-
Bank Atlas (1981483 basis); 1983 data.                            ber ofacceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignitc.        Family Plenniir4Ulers (percet ofnarried im en-The pren-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contracepuon. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VrTAL STATlSTICS                                   groups.
Teed ftp. on, 3id-Year (1h983datda)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUITRMON
and 1983 data.
Index ofFood Prodiction Per Ceat (1969-71 -loa-Index of per
Urban Fbpatmrm (percnt of teeuat-Ratio of urban to total          capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
pN.dn Prjetions            -                                      which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.    excluded): they compnxs cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vevetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortalitv rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national avenge producer pnce weights 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Cata Suppy ofCalories (percent of reqirenents)ui-Com put-
Statonary popuazieon-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not chaged over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise dorrestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationarv population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the vear 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement le.el                                         waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popultion Momenrun-ls the tendency for population growth to       Per Caia Ssipply of Prein (grams per dayJ-Proten content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capit net suppl of food per day Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established bv USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year i s measured as   provide for mimmum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of th: ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grzms of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of antimal protein as an
Popution Desity                                                   averagc for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkrr.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (.100 hec-    Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tans) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita Pretein Supply firom Anima and Pulse-Protein supplv
Per sq/en. agrkicdrurol land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Population Age Strctue (percest)-Children (0- 14 years). work-    Child taes 1-4, Deah Rare (per thousandi-Number of deaths of
ingage(15-64 years), and retired(65 yearsand ovcrpas percentage   children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rare (1percent)-tetal-Annual growth rates of    from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Populatn Growth Raw (percentJ-rhaa-ba-Annual growth rates         Life Expectancy at Birth (yearn-Number of vears a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83'data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ARNM I
Page 4
at the de of of its birth wee to stay the -  throughout is litfc  hpif-wher Rail. - priary. and acoudary-Total students en-
1960. 197 and 1983 datiL                                    roid a prmary and secondary levels divided by numer of
Iof  Martsift Roa (p. ,housd)-Number of infants who die    tea   in the cmsponding level
beform rching one year of ap per thouna live births in a given
year 1960 1970 and 1933 dar.                                 CONSUwMrON
Aca  so S* WU1   (car of                      When,  d q       u.sger CA    er    t            u Pa     r  car cona-
i  W Number of people (totL urban and ural) with reausable   pr  mowor can seating k  than eight pesons; cdludes ambul-
a      t safe waer supply (inudes treated surface waters or  ances, hearses and military vehicl
uID1.d  but ur     intnd water sueb as thst rom protected    Radb  RecArs (jpr tmmdII types of recever
borcholes. spuap and sauniary vis) as peenages of their pe-  for radio bradcasts to genal public per thousand of population;
tive populazions. In an urban aim a public fountain or andpos't    excdudes unised receive  in countries and in yers when
located not mom tha 200 metal from a hou m    be    d               ation of radio no was in effect data for ent yeS  may
as being withn r:asonbl amcss of that house In nral ar ea       bc compsabl         mon counus abid liening.
reasonab   x  would imply that the housewife or membm of the
household do nOt bave to spend a diproporuonua  part of the day  TVReeu  pferf                     cciet V  ries for broadcast
in felcg tbg findly's wow er adL                             to genera public per tosnd popuaou exludes unlcnsd TV
Aicng th Ere amDly   ter need f s.v ,                                   ini coium  and m ycus whe registration of TV ses was
Awas e E.r'era  ftprnl (paaut  f~PplWiA6jW-rW;4 Wwhie  in effect
ad mal-Number of people (totaL urban and ural) served by
excreta disposl as percentages of their repeti  populations.  J     _     G         (   d m(ps mows the aver-
Excrcta disposal may include the colection and disposal, with or  ag cirulation of "daly eer intesut newspaper. dedined as a
without atument, of human ert and waste-water by water-      podial publaioun dvoted pnmanly to recording general news
borne systems or the use of pit pivies  d similar imollion.  It a comiderd to be "daily if it appea  at let four tim  a week.
Azpukre per PAe_cia.-4bpulatioa divided by number of pr-     Cynt A _ Aflamiie p  CMi&  par Y-Based on the
using physicia  quaflied front a medical school at university evel.  nuhber of tietu sold during the year. induding admissions to
Pbpulurda p- Nwsiq Pldm-lbpulation divided by number of      dnve-in cufcem and moble umts
practicing male and female graduat nurses aant nurses.
practica tnses, and nurngw auxiliai                          LABOR FORCE
Awka  p  Mve  AdIcoA wmri. aud riWuIPlepulation           Tota Laim Fave -(thomub~)--Economically active persons, in-
(ttL  wbls  and mrlldiie b  b   dqmv  mube of                cumg are           ==cs.n u=mkydbtclcn  osw
hoodbsvlalipulcndrvM2nlod---'                        tuen. t-covernag population of all ages. Deiatioos in
vl ab.n ousu    are hn"oCOI   DOt compamble: 19601970 and 1933 data.
permnyendy staffed by at least one physiian. Establishments pray-  Fema  (paresarD-"Famale labor force as pa _meg of toual lbor
di,g principally custodil car arc not inclde  Rurl hospas.   force
however. inchlde health and mdial centers not pemanndy stffed  A4icaIe (pewce-Labor force in  rmi  foresty. huntg
by a physidia (but by a medicl assisiant, muse, midwifi. etc)  and fiing as permrae of totl labor forc; 1960. 1970 and 1960
-whi offer r-patient acconmodatn and provide a liited range  data.
of medical facilites                                        Industy (perc1mD--Labor force in mming, construcuon. mau-
Adau    per Hospital &d-Total number of admions to or        facuring and eectricity. water and gs as prcentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds     force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P .'rkipuism Rae (pc   I-t  ra , m fpaion
HOUSING                                                      or acivity rtes are computed as toaL ,mae and female labor forc
A"ve  S;3 f H.eM (jmw p._ Asns ld-eu;4   m,                  as percentags of totaL male and female popultion of all ags
andmwl-A houweold consis ofa group of idividuab who sbare    respecivdey 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Thes are based on 1L.'s
lving quts and thber ma  meals A boarder or lodger may or    parcipation rams r lctng ag-sex:tsucnreortbepopulan and
may not be inuded in the household for statistil purpos     long tme trend. A few esmate are from natonal soum.
Avere  Nwdha of Pm  pf R__m.--ma,arises, and real-           Eeoaud Depadmcy Ra_-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural   65 and ovcr. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent suctures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIDBT[ON
Permsar of Dwelisgs -*k El,crric*y--wa4 am. nd papa-         Peemeag-e of Teta Dipoabk Iscon(etu m      mud kind)-
Conventional dwellings with ectricity in living quarters as percez-  Acmuing to peentile goups of househoids ranked bv toal house-
tage of totaL Urb  and rral dwdlinp respectively.            hold incom.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY ERGET GROUPS
A4asred EfwiUaw Ratfos                                       The following estimates are very approxmte measures of poverty
Prbnmy school - totad ,aak and femnaek-Gros woL mrie and     leveL and should be interpreted wtEh coniderable caution.
femal enrollment of all age at the primary levd as pecenges of  Estmated AbsMae himety n Iw>m  Lad ( USS per captni-4whm
respectve primay school-ag populaom  While many ccdnaes      ad nw"Absolute poverty income lvel is that income level
conider prmary scboolage to be 6-11 year otbers do no. The   below which a minimal nutridonally adequate diet plus essential
differns in country pracces in the ag and duion of school    non-food requimments is not affordable.
a  rdelbed in the ratios giv  For some counties with universal  E_smad A      hw fbty mame Leaed (USXpf capitai-irhaa
educain gros enrollet may exeed 100 perent since some         _d r_rwl-ural rlti  poverty income lcvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average  wr capita peronal income of the country. Urban levd is
age-                                                         derived from the nrurW level ith adjusment for higher cost of
S5arnday sweo! - roual. mak and fecal-Computed as above     living in urban ares
secondary educaion requirs at least four yeas of approved pzi-  Esrimed PepLuriv B&ew Absolue Powerry  wmwm  Level (per.
mary inssuon provids general, vocationaL or u acher training  camrJ-ar  and rwf l- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age corespond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence cousxs are generally xcluded.
VocaonUa Erolment 'percen of sacodarv-Vocuona insntu-                  Comparauive Analysis and Data Division
Uons indude tecncal instriaL or other programs wbich operae         Economic Analysis and Projections Departnent
independently or as departments of secondary insatunons.                            June 1985



25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u 5-f 
-                           KW~~~~EDIC D SD
mtnmp*                  (ez Iomm.5)                           (Cm=t  d
m             *     1A      Mlsm          sm BE         D S D 05  Um  HD   SO   IN5 l llt lh 11/
om*C u waa             IJ/X    AM        OW    3b       53  SJ         4i    aIBOD  UJD   NWS IOD  Y£D IXD
VW-     ~      ~~~ bob    7,]    7,b   6.3Z    35       4.4    3.2    161    De3    B1   -92   -9i          KY7   -7i
kdy                   9,X     9 D74    %U3    kW      6.      6.     Zb      w      X9    ao       r      Z        V     364
Sl%m                 b6      Z.Zb   2,Z7   MM          S9     6.4    48    412    n16    M69   W>         %b    5.2   5S
maxp*n          ~~D;D8    MM     741J    ANZ    S4        S8     4.7    MA4            MOB     S 2    945    IL2    lI!b
QmkLm             7,SB    7,yl    7,45    6,1      Sl     3.6    7.2    315    Du2    DD0   31b    315    IS4    1k9
BP     fsbrd NS  4097    4BS    407    4.%    311    5S4         27    IS      1:9    15J8  129    IZ3        Wa    12.4
cEpsEadfl5sxps 4rdN     jV     67T    5,1       5,112   4|3    Q6      9.1   IS      IS      Wi 16b               M73 IS   119
Qmnebmilaw             S.YO    4Sl8    4Wi6  4JO        S2    UL2    -4       NA     15.5     2     IS2    2.6   Ulb    Wi
B   s      SX     s 5    Ns    I!E2    19       rA
Mw4lL  am       IN      AM      3,47    A,M    313       &I      IS    MO    ]MD    MD    MD    IDD   mo    Ill
tr~~~~~~~i   I,IIZI 5 a 2.0                     75 Zs  1 4      2.2  7L5       LI 55i    %6    67                  7a4iU
w   r           l,X~~~~~IAN  931  b       741     -     aL5     7.2     -      DL5    17U    I 3    ZLD   ZL       1L3
Oki/                   3B      W6      24      31      -      4.1    58       -     IL4   3D.1   IL2       A7    9.3     1
mwsdS I"= 4,,ZD       4M       5,"1  4/4       3.M  15                2         D    M      =0       =      M3KO          M
1                     217      asg     n2      14    x1       6.1    EJ      ZL4     Sl     60    6h3      5.4    hl     Sl
pzl                   m   tli          61J   ke6    4LA  iD    413                   -      LO      63     -3   J3       U.2
mI-LYw  *i-          1        1.92    LA  14           5.2    -    4L7 4            AA    3561    3.2            3 - .9 3D
Cthir          2JI6~O   Z440    11i2E    1.!    LB      5b      9D    5L9    n9    '69    432    4S    4L7    47.8
i       1!115    Wo     !R7    I!I      m!T      I!e    Rl     mgS    soE1f 1f
MEADIRSa:Ed/
3P                           2SC      2L9     2S65    2;L1    17.1    A.1    Dz.6    2L8    au       Z.4   an
5d.wmm                       ;i       M.9    3Ws    3S        311     Qb      47.3      5    bu      7b    me
_P. Fd  flnb                         gw      )I D    Gh32B9           W1    3P3    3N5   3MA         M-  43
bpt ,a   f       i     r 7    9D  MO    lD   1               I"      IIL E.7  7am6           31L3  33L332 3YL
itufubf IFc169    MSD    ELh                       1W      137.2   ISM9      W5    laL      auZ    nu]   UVi
so      IW5     1!      E1|    193       I!B f
ammnme                                                962      9.3     78      7.9     78      {L2
n    ^   hpf-(2                                          6.1      7.8     L5      9.1     9.9
REI (+) er  H-                                        3,0      32       -     -6       Q9     -&9
QapiL qert                                            6.5     3.5      3.1     3.8     2.7    2.8
R fS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                         0.2     LO      01      G.1    0.
QPI>Lhzmmc                                            SD       1      3.73     2LZ
QPpwqwftvD&mc at                                       m      4W0      L77     CL2
qBWmadmgmh  =              b/                         SWI    4m       4.(D     Li
MRA                                                 3.S    2S5      4J       6.5
Tq     C                                              L17    O.1;    LIS       2A
jr/ lUldflEkAtClulaL
Atmvpo F_ X _                   CfwcmdMt&b-                 ebdcntmmmaadi
7   F     :   t      si:cz                    m     il         e f <            s 6
acdt  m       *=,    efop.
n_h 16, M
okjmu~



26 -
RtAm, 27,5AD  6-)                                      ALEGFR!MEOR&EPIILAOlMNB                                             M 1
QP Elr t:  1.192.4  (IN                                     dUb1 ISS at mzt  i=)                                          Ie 6 cd 6
5    5I6       t7s        5BE1 m y     t9BE                                              6      my 18I9A,
BvumCfgzzh udma=str                    2.0    2.8    3#.    4.UD    4.5         JWd    44W    4.15   443       4,2   45    5.W   4,3B AM
}pl f u  dWimrfim= mxDm                  O             2,M V            S 50 6.    7V54 %3! 2.    5%  kO OtXt
lMzmad                                    1       *5      a1      614    71      Z3i  -1 1W   -i6  j`,A           -       12 -    2 ml     9  t.3
RE  -W   3 i52    -W           -9  3          15 - I -.MD   4, T       I -131         -1.A6  -Z.C1B -2
rK :D                                            3       4)0      .  !B         IS    312   If        f 16N     15      21      z      2)  4D
Gnsutmitibl-m                             -%      210  dJ         1W  1,W         I. 2EjIA    i& I1S    -4
HE dcmlr fixEfv  taegoffx                 3.       14     43      67     X        51     ZB      31      514      411    10)      3D     3D    M
?Mr ,-ad lg mkn    1W)                    39      ID       n      m       6      59 a)    10    1Zi6    LTh      I,3    ,i    1i5'  1og   .Th
wD pflk                                 (3)   (113)   (19w)        )   M       (CB)  (141)  aD            )   (1.)  (1,45)  (1,431) (11)  (612)
03P*A                                   (65)    ()       (5)   (C3)   OM        (42)   (31)      ))    (3 )     (3)   (03    (1D    (5)  (YA)
QhwcapW1                                  -12     1B      13       as    -33      1      3B3      M     -9b    -1.1      -G      -36    -M       0
JlhmzLm le                                21      3       '41B    2B3    615  I1l    lM5   ZW    1l4               do    ilB    152    1.5   11i
____f ____s            _                 -13    --l      -U      -61r  -1       j.3)    -i5s    73 1W            I1,      -      -D   -)  -D
Nt kmwfanl           (cfId                  S   1.07 I}   23    2       41W 3   56   5.416   4.51    3419        1,7%    15      2.5   Z1    W
Imw  as   I of izq t (p3b ad .La6)    5.0    7.3    9.8    ILI    1.5 I  L8               LI     87      6.6      4.3    4.4    4.6    48   4.6
.ficigim s                                -       -       -       _       _       _       _       _      _      _
O*disi           cXf Mrlcn               337     2      3D5       # 2    9    1.49 8   1.317   I.ZB   132   1.7!B
fnl                                      42      43       3      S       35     46       %       35     42    £0
-n  ma                                 (40    (40)    (19)    (49     CZ       (9)    (23      (      (U)    a
,1                                      (-)      )     (-)     (-)     (       (-)     ()      C)       )    ()
trw                                     CZ)t(2  (3)    (6)      (6)    0)    (3)    (3)    (2)    (33D  Cu)
N_u~ Suu1                                334    2.    3)D   27         90      52    1,33   l;l    1,3D   1,713
'HI)                                   (IS()    (75)    (1    (11    (40)   (21)    (1)   (2D    CU   (Z1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~(lbas)    05)   (05                      ( )    tM    CM   x 5)   C            CM     (4W
Wu[u,kI1~                              (ii)    C27) (e   )    (3)    (        (4)    (71)    (       (1)  (16)
(M     (111)   CM      (11)   (C)   (813)   MEM       G)   (6am)  (3)
abcnc       2gad                       Z377   2A%    2fis   2.V    3.V1   4XBs   5Mt    56%    6,O  7.9
(mFL-                                 1,72    1,81    1.Z    24T    251W    23    2.7    314   3.5    445
191D                                (614)  (6R)   (716)   (72i)   ON        (9)1)  (IJf1)  (1 _W   (t,511) (1,197)
Mt                                   (       (       (3)    CM       CM     c21)    C21)    0M    (19)   (19)
3uE                                (101   (1,X7)  (1.14Z) (12)  (1,1) (1.36)  (1,4M)  (1,6    (1.   (2,
t1'4                                   67      G5  g 6        CL   1,2    1,5    Z/1S   2,92   3,3   33
ldidum1ate                              6!D    93: I,          1.54    1,9!2   2,16.   273    IN    3,    4.5
IIXME IV
llgidl:c s      l - 1                    23     3)      316       5     69      59      672    M1      %D   145
of    di1z                             115    125      WO      5      2       V9 m            911     s1    59
E s~a ;:t Cf gz  ail
ail svA                               L7       9.2    9.0    9.3    29        85    2.6    166    2L.    2i5
alumasZQP                                LB     LS      L6      L7      2.3     L6      L9     2.3    2.5   3i
A0    t I    Elm en )w                   7.5    6.7    7.3      7.9    LI      133    12.0      1      WS9   LA
fIrdA                                 (6.3)   (5.6)   (3)   (7.6)    .7)    8A    (7.6)        5)   (1.5)  (ma.)
Peim                                  (       (7.6)   (7.4)   (6)  (1.)  (15.7)  (14.0  (LW          0.7)  (ra.
A y nm iLycfraw  kEm (mm)               153       9    12        .3    110       6    129    14.6    141    137
(3.)  (235   (14)  (16.5   (17.1)  (17.)  (l6.    (           (t1 8   (n)
Ftbmm                                 (L.)   MO    (739)   0.)   (L0   (ILD  (L0    099)   0.5)  (t..
IHDI32tualID                            1.7    2.2   136       3.7    3L9    Ib2    21.        2L5    2L9   228
1IDd80    wmAt=PM d1izm is              27.3  2S4    27    a3o    14.1   21.4    SD            2L4    212   14.
ED d!b : awd       l    ,de t          3L8    3L9    29.5    3.       15    27.3    a;.    2L.7    78   253
BSUM(mul ilD                            0.9    0.9       .      0.8     06     0.5    0.4    0.3    0.3   0.2
kdm1ml6a| - m                             -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -
ERdEbtsmvW       & kmLdEbts w           (L0.3    0.2    0.1    0.1      0l     0.1     0l      0.1    0.1    0.1
a/ W8dBkAdmdL
RWH xdpWcymvddd
a       6 kkk19
Q R dkndm



- 27 -
Annez II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1985)
(US$million)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose          Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
72 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                   1,743.8  23.5 1/    -
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    57.6              14.7
1471    1977  Colombia                        Highways           90.0      .'      2.6
1487    1978  Colombia                        Nutrition          25.0              0.5
1558    1978  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment             24.8             3.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             4.1
1583    1978  Colombia                        Power              50.0             10.4
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y        Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0              1.9
1694    1979  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
nent             13.5             6.2
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Aleantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       27.9              0.1
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               72.0             10.2
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Muicipal                      Water Supply       30.5              7.3
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0              4.7
1807    1980  Empress de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.6             32.6
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                3.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.   150.0              32.4
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power              124.9             48.5         -
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               85.0             64.9
1966    1981  Colombia                        Rural Roads       -33.0             10.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Bidrologia                    Irrigation         37.0            13.9
1/ Includes exchaige adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



28 A-neaIT
page 2of 
A. SMAU    OF BANK 1OA  MDM MID   E= a of Sot"ber 30. 1985)
Number Yar I*pnp                                            lank   mA  Dmdisburasd
1999   19S1 CoGr ioa tietria de la
Costa AtLutica              Powr             36.0            15.0
2006   1981 Eress. dasga Z       lactricaL
de Bosot                    Power           359.0           171.7
2069   1981  Istituto lacama de Im
wors Neturale
Renovables y dal Ndio       Waterhd
_Abtm                       YAUR _MMUt        9.0             7.2
2090   1982 Ferracarrils Nacianals de
CoaZnea                     RDllays          73.8            63.7
2121   1982 Pbado Via Naciaal              HLgumys          149.6           86.2
2174   1982 Cokmdia                        Rural Davelop-
sent           53.0            44.8
2192   1962 loui del Hlnisterlo de
Macscio                     REral ducation   15.0            12.0
2303   L963  Tnstituto Cokmbiano           Agricultural
Agropec°F io                  Research       63.4            57.6
2349   1963 Carbmo de CoDmbia, S.A.    Coal
Ecoration       9.5             8.7
2379   1984 Colnmba                        Earthquaka  Re-
constrctio     40.0            24.6
2401   1984 Financsr Elecetca Nicional Power D wvelop-
anet F 1Ants  170.0            54.3
2449   1984 Eqweraa Publlica de Idelin  Multipurpos
pmr & later
-wpply        164.5           150.2
2453   1984 Pedracian scIonal do           Agricultural
Cafeteros de Colamblaw        diversif1-     50.0            46.3
cation
2464   1984 Bacco de la Republics          Industrial Cr.   40.0            30.4
2470   1984  Up_  lAicipele                water Supply      18.5           17.3
d' Cmuca
2476   1984   1r!a Coloabian do Petrol  Petrolesa           130.0          106.2
2477   1984 banco de la Rpaublic           DaveXopnt
Bland          90.0            82.7
2512   1985  1Eprs Acuaducto               Water Supply    129.0           120.9
AlUantarillo de Pbgot
2551   1985 Rpluc  of Colombia             Trade Policy     300.0          185.5
Export Dlver-
aification
261111  1985 Republic of Colombia          Hlith Services
Integrtion     36.5            36.5
TOTAL                                       4,791.4  22.5
Of which ha bee  repaid                     1,033.1  5.1
Total nox  outtanding              -        3,758.3  18.4
Amont sold                         51.0         -
Of ubich ha ben repaid            51.0          -
Total nam held by Bak and ML                3,758.3  18.4
Total u'disbursed                                           1,593.4
1 Not yet effective.



- 29 -
Annez 1I
Page 3 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                          Type of             Amount In US$ Million
Year                   Obligor                  Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1959          TLmmDas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board           .50              .50
1960-1965      Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                    Food products       1.98    .08       2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.        Metal cans            .70      -       .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                   Home furniture        .08    .09       .17
1961           Electromanufactaras, S.A.        Electrical equipment .50       -       .50
1962-85        Corporacion Financlera           Development
Colombiana                       financing        6.00   2.02       8.02
1962-1963-85   Corporacion Financiera           Development
Nacional                         financing        6.00   2.04       8.04
1963-1967      Coupania Colombiana de           Textiles             1.98    .15      2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de        Developmenti
Caldas                           financing           -    .81        .81
1964-1968      Forjas de Colombia, S.A.         Steel forging           -   1.27      1.27
1966           Aluacenes Generales de           Warehousing          1.00      -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera               Livestock            1.00    .58      1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74-85  ENRA de Colombia, S.A.           Textiles            11.75   2.61     14.36
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de        Tourism                -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Norte                            financing           -    .45        .45
1969-85        Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Valle                            financing        6.00    .43       6.43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism               .23    .11       .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                Tourism               .80    .24      1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombirna de        Housing                -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.            Cement               1.50      -      1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.        Cement              3.60       -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                       Mining              6.00       -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.          Utilities          13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S .A.                            Construction
Material         0.49   2.24      2.73



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OP IFC IWVESTHENTS (as of September 30, 1985 (Continued)
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981-1985      Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing              9.00      .20     9.20
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing        1.00    0.54      1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
Construction
Material         21.86    5.00    26.86
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining              10.24    1.64    11.88
Total Gross Commitments                              117.36   26.83   144.19
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                        67.34    9.59    76.93
Total commitments now held by IPC                     50.02   17.24    67.26
Total undisbursed (including                          45.39    6.36    51.75
participants)                                        -



- 31 -
ANNEX III
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:       HIMAT, with the assistance of
local consultants and FAO/CP
(c)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:      June 1985
(d)  Completion of Negotiations:          February 1986
(e)  D1-.nned data of effectiveness:      July 1986
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  TITMAT would maintain a unit to supervise Project implementation
with staffing, functions and organizational structure satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 43);
(b)  HIMAT would submit annual progress reports to the Bank and DNP by
June 30 of each year; such reports to include information on the
status of physical works under the project, progress in having
water users' associations increase their responsibilities in
irrigation districts, the impact on agricultural production and the
levels of cost recovery achieved. By July 31 of each year, DNP
would provide the Bank with its comments on the annual progress
report (para. 43).
(c)  Government woi'ld ensure that the necessary credit would be made
available by FFAP through financial intermediaries (para. 45);
(d)  HIMAT wculd submit the design for the Corral-Matuya dam to a review
panel of experts acceptable to the Bank and the dam would be
periodically inspected after construction (para. 49);
(e)  HIMAT would open a Special Account in Banco de la Republica, in
U.S. dollars, to cover all eligible expenditures under the loan.
HIMiLT would also establish a Project Account for an amount equival-
ent to US$4.0 million to cover counterpart expenditures and that by
June 30, 1987, this Project Account would be fully funded
(para. 51);



- 32 -
(f) For each district, HIMAT would achieve annual levels of 01 cost
recovery in accordance with a schedule agreed at negotiations
(para. 54);
(g) HIMAT would phase in separate investment recovery charges two years
after completion of civil works in all districts (para. 55); and
(h) The Government would take corrective measures should there be
indications that the expected transition to intensive land use is
slow (para. 61).
Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) HIMAT would contract crop federations, ICA, and individuals for the
provision of extension services for the major crops in each
district and with SENA for training of farmers, Water Users'
Associations, and for small-scale irrigation (para. 45); and
(b) The establishment of a Project Account with an initial deposit of
US$1.2 million equivalent in Colombian pesos (para. 51).
Conditions of disbursements would be:
(a) HIMAT would submit to the Bank feasibility studies and final
designs for irrigation schemes in the Armero area as a condition
for disbursement for this component (para. 46); and
(b) For the district of La Doctrina, HIMAT would submit to the Bank the
quantitative and financial results of the first 100 ha of shrimp
farming as a condition of disbursement for subsequent development
(para. 55).



COLOMBIA                                          "                                      .*
IRRIGATION°  ° o o wzs
,. REHABILITATION11                                    o             ,             q                           o-                                   ,,
PROJECT                                                               |s                                          /l              7 
PA n C Illlt .........- 
A                                   .ia .oaiilo .llo .Ln .99 .O  v
=    Puv d lunX looE                                 SANIAA;I. |-T--  /  : 
=R  lIfoods~~~~~~~~~~~~~A LAE a;t>f _ol ,,,  .Xe   
__8lfodICotn-                                      AlA6i  b1i                                         ,    /   ,,
Aiurto¢llpr                                                I  1    trI,Ei5i                          !        
*   Unpowed cltporlS       CASIAGJIMe R4s.------.  _R oob    Ewrl p                   .! 
"Q.:;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VE N- E Z; U E L A
,,,   ii   iYe  }¢l^..t- .,, *¢v --. .Y, .b. g .,./ t> 5~~1
s   X                   ar, zS,,Neo>,9.,v,>titW"8z; liER46{/                                 A'
P A N A M A \ >= J 6 f 1 ' *>$\ ' 't4U 3 \~~~~~~~
5)"> 1                                 /         2 r,tt                                     vEN   ZUEA  
W   \1'' d-  %   X   '''-'"''           ,,,1,         .,.)  arBy;K4,£sWpldl6aft~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
e>1  \  ,<  I  t*U. , wr * <s t { Bat,G, t P\ECUADO
ECUADORi.                                                                                     Nti  (      \    t     -                         -Je  






