Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
y hz  GC-_ >Co
Report No. 5954-CO
STAFF APPkAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
February 28, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanct of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                                 Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1                                            Col$ 172.37
(12/31/85)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOR          - Banco de la Republica
(Bank of the Republic (Central Bank))
CAJA         - Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja Agraria)
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank)
DNP          - Departamento de Planeacion Nacional
(National Planning Department)
FEDEARROZ    - Federacion Nacional de Arroceros
(National Federation of Rice Growers)
FFAP         - Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
(Agricultural Financing Fund)
HIMAT        - Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y
Adecuacion de Tierras
(Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land
Improvement)
ICA          - Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
(Colombian Agricultural Institute)
IDEMA        - Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
(Institute for Agricultural Marketing)
INCORA       - Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
(Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform)
INDERENA     - Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables
(National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources)
OPSA         - Oficina de Planemiento del Sector Agropecuario
(Planning Office for the Agricultural Sector)
SENA         - Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Apprenticeship Service)
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   LOAN AND PROJECT SUKKARY ....... ........ .......  .. .............                    1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR . ....................... ...... .....                         3
Agriculture's Importance to the National Economy ................                     3
Sectoral Performance ......................... 00......0                              3
Sectoral Institutional Framework ................................                     4
Government Strategy for Agricultural Production ................                      5
Bank Role in the Sector .......              .................. ...............       5
Experience with Past Projects ...... ........................ 0 .. .                  6
The Irrigation Authority ......       ............... ....................            6
The Irrigation Subsector .......... ...................            . ..........       7
III. THE PROJECT .................                                                          8
Background .............................................................. 8
Project Objectives ........... ................ *             ............... **      8
Project Description .......................................... ..                     9
Project Implementation .......................... W...........................       10
Status of Project Preparation ................... ................                  11
Project Cost .................. .................. ................    11
Financing ......................................................... ......    12
Procurement ................................ .....................    12
Disbursements ................    13
Accounts and Audit .......          ............. ......... ............. .    14
Cost Recovery ...................................................    14
Production, Marketing and Financial Analysis ....................    15
Project Benefits and Justification ..............................    15
Ehvironmental Impact ................................................ 16
Project Risks .................................................... 16
IV.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................    17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in June 1985. The mission comprised Messrs. J.H. Laeyendecker
(Engineer), P. Marko (Agronomist) and M. Mendez (Consultant, Economist).
I| s document bu a rstrictd distributionand m ay be used bya      ts only in tbe pefomc
ofthe official dude  Its cttens may anoerSwiae be dbdoed without Wold Bank audlx  a      I



- ii -
Page No.
ANNEX 1 - PROJECT DESCRIPTION  .. * *..............         .. ...** ** .......  19
Table 1 - Present/Future Hectares and Yields ........................           26
2 - Farm Size Distribution .......................... a.......    28
3 - Technical Assistance Contracts .......O ............     ....        29
4 - Summary of Project Cost ...................................    30
5 - Schedule of Expenditures ... *   ... * .* ... *  ..................    31
6 - Schedule of Expenditures, Sources of Financing and
Disbursements ........ ....... ...... ...............             32
7 - District Investments ................. .   .          ....     .    33
8 - Equipment and Vehicles, Location, Quantity and Cost.......    34
9 - Disbursement Schedule ........................ ............    35
10 - Erosion Control ............................................. ..............    36
ANNEX 2 - PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .......................    37
Table 1 - HIMAT Employment (6/11185) ................................    43
2- HIMAT:  Condensed Income Statement .................... ....    44
3- HIMAT:  Condensed Balance Shret ...........................           45
4-  DIAT District Information (1984) ............ &.............    46
5 -HDIAT Production Statistics ...........       ...............         47
6 -Summary HDMAT Districts (1984) ............................           48
7 - 1984 Water Charges and Cost Recovery Plan .............0 ....    49
ANNEX 3 - FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS ..........................    50
1 - District Features and Development .........................    53
2 - Summary: Production and Gross Value of Production .........          54
3 - 1983 Export and Import Statistics .........................          55
4 - Income Levels and Financial Rates of Return ...............    56
5 - Summary of Economic and Sensitivity Analysis ..............    57
6 - Financial and Economic Prices .............................    58
7 - Price Contingencies and Devaluation ................                 59
ANNEX 4 - DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE ...................    60
MAP: IBRD 19223 - Project Location



COLONBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        The Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land
Improvement (HIMAT).
Guarantor:       Government of Colombia.
Amount:          US$114 million.
Terms:           17 years, four years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Description:   The project is part of Government's efforts to revitalize
the agricultural sector and to improve the economic effi-
ciency of public sector institut:ons. At the subsectoral
level, it is part of the strategy to rehabilitate existing
irrigation facilities and to construct small-scale irriga-
tion schemes before investing in large new irrigation dis-
tricts. It aims to maximize returns on past investments and
to improve the generation of funds for operation and mainte-
nance of the irrigation network. The project is a follow-up
to the Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project (Loan 1996-CO).
The main project objectives are to: (a) increase crop pro-
duction on 108,000 ha in six districts, through rehabilita-
tion and improved technical and extension services leading
to more intensive land use; (b) improve the incomes of some
3,900 poor farmers located on about 7,800 ha in the foot-
hills of the Andes and in the savannah country of Northern
Colombia through small-scale irrigation davelopment;
(c) partially restore the agricultural production base in
the area affected by the recent volcanic disaster through
reconstruction and addition of irrigation facilities; and
(d) improve the sustainability of public irrigation
investments through full recovery of operation and
maintenance costs and the building up of water users'
associations. Project beneficiaries would be some
10,800 farmers, of which 50Z have incomes below the poverty
level. The average beneficiary per capita income of about
US$1,060 before the project is expected to rise to about
US$1,940 at full development.
Project Risk:    The major risk is slow adoption of technological changes
including land levelling, thus delaying or reducing project
benefits. Based on the experience under the first rehabili-
tation project, this risk can be overcome through technical
assistance, training and access to credit, all of which are
features of the proposed project.



-2-
Estimated Cost.                                Local       Foreign    Total
US$ million
Civil Works                                39.7        33.9       73.6
Equipment                                   0.8          8.8       9.6
Medium-Term Credit                         28.2         16.4      44.6
Incremental Working Capital 1/             11.9         6.0       17.9
Small-Scale Irrigation                      5.8         5.0       10.8
Armero Development Program                 10.4          8.8      19.2
Other                                      18.7         4.1       22.8
Base Cost                             115.5        83.0      198.5
Physical Contingencies                      6.6          5.6      12.2
Price Contingencies                        21.4        25.4       46.8
Total Project Cost                    143.5  2/   114.0      257.5
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                                    -         114.0     114.0
Government                                 59.9           -       59.9
Banking System                             54.1          -        54.1
Beneficiaries                              29.5          -        29.5
Total Project Cost                    143.5       114.0      257.5
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY           1987   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   1994
-US$ million
Annual             5.7    8.0  18.2  21.7  21.6  17.1  11.4   10.3
Cuimlative        5.7   13./  31.9  53.6  75.2  92.3 103.7  114.0
Economic Rate
of Return:           28%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No.5954-CO, dated January 7, 1986.
IBRD No. 19223 - Project Location.
1/   Short-term agricultural credit on the basis of farm models.
2/   Includes US$1.1 million in taxes.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture's Importance to the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture is the most important sector in the Colombian economy,
accounting for about 22% of GDP. Within the sector, crop and livestock
products contribute about 52Z and 43%, respectively, to the gross value of
production; the remaining coming from other rural activities. Agriculture
provides employment for two million people, or a quarter of the national
labor force. The sector's share in the country's total registered
merchandise exports fluctuated between 67% and 75% in recent years. Of the
total value of agricultural exports of US$2 billion in 1983, coffee accounted
for 73Z, followed by bananas (7%) and flowers (6%). Agricultural imports
represent 7.5% of Colombia's total registered imports for 1983. The main
agricultural imports are wheat, soybeans and fish products. Yields of rice,
sugarcane, coffee, cotton and bananas are comparable with international
levels, but for many other commodities, they are low and the scope for
improvement is substantial. The performance of the livestock subsector has
been sluggish over the last decade, and only small productivity increases
were achieved.
2.02      The national territory totals 112 million ha.   This apparent
abundance belies the fact that 93 million ha, or 83% of the total land,
have no or limited crop potential and are used mainly for grazing and
forestry. Of the remainder, 13 million ha is on sloped land in the
inter-Andean valleys and only suitable for non-mechanized agriculture
consisting of inter-cropping with permanent crops; 3.8 million ha could be
used for modern agriculture after providing some type of land reclamation
works (flood control, drainage and irrigation); and only 1.7 million ha is
suitable for modern mechanized agriculture without restrictions. Structural
problems in agriculture are the uneven land distributien and poor land use:
in some parts of the country good crop land is used for extensive grazing and
marginal land for cultivation. Countryside violence is limited in areas with
high population density, but widespread in newly colonized areas where no
clear title to the land exists. This situation acts as a disincentive to
private sector investment, as does the decline in agricultural profitability
caused by a decrease in commodity prices relative to the cost of agricultural
inputs.
Sectoral Performance
2.03      The recent performance of the sector has been heavily affected by
macroeconomic policies and by external events. After expanding at rates of
above 4% during the seventies, the growth rate in agriculture fell to 1.3Z
during 1980-84. During the first half of the seventies, agricultural growth
was based on the dynamism of non-coffee agricultural exports, which expanded
at an average annual rate of nearly 10% in real terms. In the second half of
the 1970s, the coffee boom became the driving force, while growth of
non-coffee agricultural exports decreased to less than 7% per annum. In



- 4 -
contrast, during 1981-84 coffee exports were greatly affected by depressed
international markets while non-coffee exports showed a negative growth
rate. The decline of coffee and non-coffee exports in volume and in terms of
prices explains almost 80% of the fall in agricultural GDP growth during the
1981-84 period.
2.04      Five factors explain the decline in the export and overall
performance: (a) unfavorable international conditions for agricultural
commodities exported by Colombia (coffee, sugar, cotton, beef); (b) macro-
economic policies in the late seventies leading to appreciation of the
exchange rate and a reduction in export promotion. As the balance of
payments deteriorated in the early 1980s, protection levels were raised first
by increasing import duties and later by imposing import quotas;
(c) sector-specific policies, consisting of export restrictions for a number
of commodities and import restrictions for agricultural inputs due to foreign
exchange constraints; (d) reduction of government investments in agriculture
since the mid-1970s and inadequate institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture to ensure appropriate design and execution and therefore maximum
benefit of these limited investments; and (e) a rapid increase of the real
agricultural minimum wage rate in 1979 (32%) and again between 1982 and 1984,
contributing to a rise in production costs. (Labor costs amounted to some
32% of the gross value of agricultural output in 1982.)
Sectoral Institutional Framework
2.05      The formulation and execution of public sector agricultural policy
and programs involve a sizeable number of institutions. The Ministry of
Agriculture has primary responsibility, and within it the Agricultural Sector
Planning Office (OPSA) has the responsibility for planning and coordinating
sector activities. OPSA maintains a close relationship with the agriculture
and global investment divisions of the National Planning Department (DNP),
since they have to approve the sector's development plan and investment
program. The Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) is responsible for
agricultural research and extension. The Agricultural Marketing Institute
(IDEMA) promotes the national marketing of crops and intervenes by procuring
agricultural commodities to influence prices to the consumer and the
producer. The Agrarian Reform Institute (INCORA) carries out programs of
land distribution and farm support. The Natural Resources Institute
(INDERENA) is mainly responsible for protecting the environment. The
Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement (HDMAT)
is in charge of irrigation and drainage works and associated land
improvements, in addition to hydrology and meteorology. In addition to these
public sector institutions, well organized private commodity based
agricultural producer associations exist. These organizations are a dynamic
force in agricultural development and provide a wide range of services to
their members.
2.06      The bulk of agricultural credit comes from two principal sources:
the Agricultural Financing Fund (FFAP) and the Agricultural, Industrial and
Mining Credit Bank (CAJA). FFAP is a rediscount window of the Bank of the
Republic (BOR) from which funds are onlent by banking institutions, mostly to
commercial farmers. Total credit to the agricultural sector from all sources



amounted to Col$ 85 billion (US$840 million) in 1984. In that year, FFAP
provided 68Z of the resources onlent to agriculture. CAJA is the principal
source of credit to the small farm sector. In addition, there are other
sources of agricultural credit, such as the Livestock Bank, the Coffee Bank
and the Financial Corporation for Agriculture and Export Promotion.
Agricultural interest rates are generally lower than for other productive
sectors. For FFAP resources, effective rates are 24-26%, while CAJA's rates
average slightly less.
Government Strategy for Agricultural Production
2.07      In its strategy to revitalize the economy, the Government has
accorded high priority to agricultural development, given its importance in
terms of foreign exchange earnings, and overall economic growth and
employment. Agricultural productivity and production are being encouraged
through programs and actions aimed at: (a) generating and diffusing
agricultural technology; (b) rehabilitating existing irrigation lands;
(c) providing credit; (d) diversifying agricultural production in the coffee
zones; and (e) improving sector planning capacity and efficiency of public
sector institutions. To lower the costs of agricultural inputs, the
Government has reorganized CAJA, a major supplier of agricultural credit and
key inputs, to increase its efficiency and effectiveness. To strengthen
agricultural marketing, it has set up a special marketing fund in FFAP. The
Government has also redefined the functions of IDEMA to avoid financial
losses in the future.
2.08      While these investment programs and institutional reforms are
designed to increase agricultural production and incomes and improve
efficiency in the agricultural service institutions, the Government is in the
process of undertaking a series of macroeconomic, trade and sectoral policy
measures that will restore profitability and private investment in the
sector. These measures encompass macroeconomic policies and also address the
following specific trade and agricultural topics: (a) export and import
restrictions; (b) agricultural input and output trade policy; (c) coffee
policy; (d) credit policy; (e) public investment in the sector; and
(f) institutional strengthening. Policy actions in these areas will be
supported under a planned Trade and Agricultural Policy Loan.
Bank Role in the Sector
2.09      Since 1966, the Bank has made 15 loans totalling US$463.0 million
equivalent. Three of these loans have been for agricultural credit, two for
livestock development, two for colonization, three for irrigation/drainage,
two to support the Government's rural development program, one for a pilot
watershed management project, one for an agricultural research project, and
the most recent one for an agricultural diversification project in coffee
areas. Most of the projects have focused on increasing productivity, incomes
and welfare of small farmers; all, except the last one, were executed by
public sector institutions.
2.10      In the years ahead, the Bank intends to increase its lending in
support of the Government's efforts to modernize the sector and to maximize



- 6 -
its contribution to socio-economic development. Emphasis will be given to
projects with a strong production impact and on improving the effectiveness
and efficiency of the most important agricultural public sector
institutions. Private sector agricultural producer organizations are also
being drawn into the project preparation and execution process to ensure
their support for the ensuing investment programs. Agricultural sector work
has been intensified through two reports: Colombian Agriculture: Selected
Issues and Some Directions for Strategy' (Report No. 4275-CO, January 1983),
and Colombia-External Sector and Agriculture Policies for Adjustment and
Growth- (Report No. 4981-CO, April 1984). These reports have deepened the
policy dialogue and have provided a strong basis on which to formulate the
proposed project and the Trade and Agricultural Policy loan, which were
appraised at about the same time. Other projects under preparation for the
sector cover a wide spectrum, namely: agricultural extension, agricultural
credit, agricultural marketing, watershed management, and rural development.
Experience with Past Projects
2.11      Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for six of the
projects (Loans 502-CO, Atlantico Irrigation; 624-CO, Agricultural Credit;
651-CO, Second Livestock Development; 739-CO, Caqueta Land Colonization;
849-CO, Second Atlantico Development; and 1163-CO, Cordoba II Agriculture
Development). An Impact Evaluation Report on the Atlantico Irrigation
Project was issued in 1982. While these projects were by and large
successful, the irrigation and drainage projects experienced some technical
difficulties and were hampered by INCORA's institutional weaknesses.
Subsequently, the irrigation functions have been transferred from INCORA to a
new institution, HIMAT.
The Irrigation Authority
2.12      The Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land
Improvement (HIMAT) was established in 1976 as an autonomous public entity
attached to the Ministry of Agriculture. It took over public sector
irrigation and drainage investments from INCORA, which had carried then out
in conjunction with land reform. HIMAT has a Board of Directors composed of
representatives of public sector institutions. Its General Manager is
appointed by the President of the Republic and he is supported by adequate
technical staff in various disciplines. HDMAT obtains approximately 82Z of
its resources from Government transfers, with the rest emanating largely from
water tariffs. In 1984 HIMAT's budget was US$40.0 million and its total
staff some 1,900 people.
2.13      The experience with HIMAT under the ongoing Irrigation
Rehabilitation I Project (Loan 1996-CO), on which the proposed project is
based, has been good. Total loan disbursements of 65%, two and a half years
before the closing date, are well ahead of the Bank disbursement profile for
Colombia.  HIMAT has improved significantly its competence with respect to
technical matters. It has established good monitoring systems for
agricultural production and O&M costs. Its performance in increasing O&M
cost recovery in accordance with a long-term plan agreed and annually
reviewed with the Bank is generally on target, except in one district.



- 7 -
However, its capacity for economic and financial analysis and for promoting
intensive land use still needs further strengthening. Farmers' response to
the improved service provided by HIMAT has been positive and increases in
yields in many cases exceed those estimated at appraisal.
The Irrigation Subsector
2.14      Although it is estimated that two to three million ha can
technically be irrigated or reclaimed, land under private and public
irrigation accounts for only about 570,000 ha, or roughly 11% of Colombia's
cultivated area. Public investment for irrigation commenced in the 1940s and
expanded during the land reform program during the 1960s. Today, about 80%
of irrigation occurs in private schemes developed by highly productive,
large-scale farmers. In the public schemes, which include drainage
districts, the majority of farms are small. Land reform beneficiaries
account for about one-third of the approximately 20,000 farmers in such
districts.
2.15      The area of the 25 public irrigation and drainage districts covers
275,000 ha. Of this area, 32% lacks infrastructure because the works were
never completed or water resources are insufficient. Since irrigation
schemes have a strong political impact, new districts were started at the
cost of cutting resources for the completion of earlier constructed
districts. The same attitude has resulted in inadequate allocations for
operation and maintenance (O&M), which has resulted in a great loss of public
investment prior to the start of the Rehabilitation I Project.
2.16      Five problems are related to poor development in public schemes:
(a) the Government's policy that public construction should terminate at the
farm outlet, leaving necessary on-farm development to the initiative of the
individual farmer; and (b) the presence of large-scale farmers, who are
interested in maximizing returns to minimal annual costs rather than
maximizing returns per hectare, thus continuing with extensive grazing. Both
(a) and (b) result in 215,000 ha of unirrigated low value pastures, scrub
land, fallow and subsistence crops still existing in the public irrigation
and drainage districts; (c) reluctance of farmers to apply supplemental -
irrigation for crops other than rice, resulting in the annual harvest of only
122,000 ha of irrigated crops from the 110,000 ha with infrastructure inside
the public irrigation districts instead of a potential 220,000 ha; (d) lack
of Government pressure forcing HIMAT to cover its annual OM costs from
tariffs: nationwide only 36% of these costs are recovered from water
charges. The balance has to be supplied from public subsidies, an unreliable
source in periods of fiscal restraint and changing government priorities; and
(e) lack of knowledge in public authorities about the high costs and low
productivity levels in the public irrigation and drainage districts. This
has led to official endorsement of requests for investments in new irrigation
districts before completing the existing districts.
2.17      In the context of the agricultural policy dialogue and the public
sector inver ment review, the Government and the Bank have agreed that major
new irrigation districts should only be considered once the existing
infrastructure is fully used. Furthermore, the Government and the Bank now



- 8 -
agree on the importance of strengthening water users' associations, so that
eventually management of these facilities can be transferred to them.
Therefore, a program of rehabilitation, completion and extension of the
existing districts has been developed within the constraints of available
water resources. Once a reliable irrigation service is established, HIMAT
will gradually improve the recovery of OM costs thereby eliminating the need
for further budgetary allocations. Also, once full O& cost recovery is
achieved, plans are that district management will be transferred to water
users' associations. These two measures together will reduce HIMAT's
dependence on Government transfers and protect existing public irrigation
investments against the changes in priorities of future governments. The two
public districts presently under such management are recovering 110% of their
OM costs.
2.18      The rehabilitation program foresaw the rehabilitation of the 15
most important districts in two phases. Phase I (Loan 1996-CO, effective
since August 1982) includes eight districts covering 47,000 ha (net). The
proposed project would rehabilitate six of the remaining districts. The
seventh cannot be rehabilitated without permanently subsidizing pumping costs
unless a feasible technical alternative is found. Since rehabilitation
builds on sizeable past infrastructure investments it involves little risk to
economic viability. The question of whether scarce public resources should
be allocated to new large public supplemental irrigation schemes would have
to be closely scrutinized in each case.
2.19      In the effort to improve HIMAT's performance, the Bank's
involvement not only focuses on full recovery of OM costs, but also on:
(a) reducing O0M costs through rationalization of O01 procedures,
(b) improving the economy of scale through the increase of contributing
hectares, and (c) improving the recovery ratio of receipts over billings.
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01      The proposed project would support irrigation rehabilitation and
development and is a follow-on from the first phase project that was
supported by the Bank under the Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project
(Loan 1996-CO). The proposed project builds on the success of the first
project which rehabilitated eight districts. Under that project, which was
approved in May 1981, civil works are about 70% completed and increases in
yields in some cases already exceed those estimated to be achieved after
project completion. The proposed project was prepared by six Colombian
consulting firms contracted by HIMAT; four FAO/CP missions provided technical
assistance to these firms. It was appraised by the Bank in June 1985, and
negotiations took place in February 1986. The ColombLan delegation was led
by Dra. Clemencia Gomez, Vice-Minister of Agriculture.



-9-
Project Obijectives
3.02      The objectives of the project would be to: (a) increase crop
production on 108,000 ha in six districts, through rehabilitation and
improved technical and extension services leading to more intensive land use;
(b) improve the incomes of some 3,900 poor farmers located on about 7,800 ha
in the foothills of the Andes and in the savannah country of northern
Colombia through small-scale irrigation development; (c) partially restore
agricultural production in the area affected by the recent volcanic disaster
through reconstruction and addition of irrigation facilities; and (d) improve
the sustainability of public irrigation investments through full recovery of
O&M costs and the building up of water users' associations in the irrigation
districts covered by the project. The Bank's role in supporting the project
would be Lo improve the returns on public investment in irrigation and the
efficiency and effectiveness of HIMAT, and to strengthen water users'
associations. To this end, the project has been designed to intensify land
use, to improve HIMAT's water charge policies and collection rates in the
districts to be rehabilitated and to induce HIMAT to gradually transfer its
management responsibilities regarding maintenance and operation to the
private sector.
Project Description
3.03      In order to achieve its objectives, the project would:
(a) design and construct small rehabilitation works covering some
108,000 ha in the six districts of Abrego, Saldana, Coello, Maria
La Baja, Prado de Sevilla and La Doctrina (map IBRD 19223). Apart
from numerous small civil works, there would be some larger works
entailing: (i) major drainage and flood protection in Saldana,
Maria La Baja and Prado de Sevilla; (ii) a diversion weir with
sedimentation structure in Saldana; (iii) a second intake with
sedimentation structure, 1.8 km tunnel and a 30 km main canal in
Coello; (iv) water control structures and a small diversion dam in
Maria La Baja; (v) rehabilitation of nine small river intakes with
sedimentation structures in Prado de Sevilla; and (vi) construction
of shrimp farming ponds in La Doctrina which is better suited for
shrimp production, because of its saline soils and proximity to
marketing facilities in Cartagena (Annex 1);
(b) replace obsolete irrigation maintenance equipment to enable HIMAT
to carry out its maintenance program in the six districts covered
by the project;
(c) train district water users' associations, particularly in
administration and accounting, to enable them to begin taking over
the management of irrigation districts from HDMAT (Annex 1);
(d) provide technical assistance and demonstration areas to promote
farmer acceptance of supplemental irrigation, improved cultivation
practices, shrimp culture techniques and more intensive land use
(Annex 1);



- 10 -
(e)  make available short- and medium-term credit for improving crop and
livestock management practices and for on-farm development;
(f) control erosion on some 3,000 ha in badly affected areas through
reforestation, terracing and gully control (Annex 1);
(g) develop small-scale, new irrigation schemes covering some 7,800 ha
in the foothills of the Andes and in the savannah country of
Northern Colombia where small farms are concentrated and where
small-scale irrigation potential exists. Two types of development
are foreseen: (i) tapping of perennial streams coming from the high
Andes with gravity distribution of water through underground PVC
pipelines. Application would be through garden-type sprinklers to
irrigate mostly vegetables; and (ii) damming of intermittent
streams in the North for irrigation of pastures and garden crops.
About 150 such schemes would be developed, ranging in size froi
10 to 200 ha. Average irrigated holdings woeld be 2 ha and the
maximum would be 10 ha. This couponent builds on the success of
four such schemes which are under operation (Annex 1);
(h) reconstruct irrigation facilities on 5,000 ha and provide new
irrigation development on about 8,000 ha L. the area around Armero,
which has been affected by the eruption of the Ruiz Volcano; and
(g)  provide funds to prepare new irrigation investments.
3.04      The project is expected to be carried out over six years.  It
includes consulting services for design work and supervision of construction
amounting to some 90 man-years and about 200 man-years of technical services
for surveying and mapping. An additional 6 man-years of technical assistance
would be contracted to provide the technology for shrimp farming. During
negotiations, HIMAT provided assurances that it would employ consultants with
qualifications, terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to enable
effective implementation of design, surveying, and construction supervision
under the project (para. 4.01 (a)).
Project Implementation
3.05      HIMAT would be responsible for carrying out the proposed project,
except for the credit component. All civil works, technical assistance and
engineering services would be done under contract in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, HIMAT provided
assurances that it would maintain a unit to supervise Project implementation
with staffing, functions and organizational structure satisfactory to the
Bank. (para. 4.01 (b)). At that time, HIMAT also provided assurances that
the Project Coordination Unit would submit annual progress reports to the
Bank and DNP by June 30 of each year; such reports would include information
on the status of physical works under the project, progress in having water
users' associations increase their responsibilities in irrigation districts,
the impact on agricultural production, intensification of land use, and the
levels of cost recovery achieved (para. 4.01 (c)). By July 31 of each year,
DNP would provide the Bank with its comments on the annual progress report.



- 11 -
3.06      For this proposed rehabilitation project, the scattered nature of
the repair work does not require a rigid schedule of phasing. However, the
following elements are the most urgent, and contracts for their
implementation would begin in the first year of the project: (a) technical
assistance to farmers by crop federations; (b) construction of a diversion
weir with improved Intake on the Saldana river; (c) a new intake on the
Cucuans river in Coello with a new main supply canal; (d) repair and
electrification of the main gates in the existing intake towers in Maria La
Baja; (e) installation of a refrigerated milk collection center in Abrego;
(f) reconstruction of nine small intakes in Prado de Sevilla; (g) the
construction of the first 100 ha of shrimp cultivation ponds in La Doctrina;
and (h) reconstruction of destroyed irrigation facilities near Armero.
3.07      FFAP would provide credit for incremental on-farm investment
through the banking system. The project's total short- and medium-term
credit requirement of US$54.1 million equivalent, when spread over the
project period would amount to less than 1% of the 1984 insLitutional lending
for agriculture. No Bank financing of the credit component is proposed under
this project. While the medium and large scale farmers have little
difficulty obtaining credit, small-scale farmers (i.e., below 10 ha)
frequently have difficulties obtaining institutional credit since they must
show that they will receive technical assistance from an approved agency or
private source. To overcome this, the procedures developed under the ongoing
irrigation loan would be used whereby RIMAT would contract private crop
federations, ICA and individuals to provide extension services. The National
Apprenticeship Service (SENA) would be contracted to provide specialized
training for farmers, water users' associations and technical assistance for
the small-scale irrigation component. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that the necessary credit would be made available by FFAP
through financial intermediaries (para. 4.01 (d)). The signing of such
contracts covering the major crops in each district would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Loan (para. 4.02 (a)).
Status of Project Preparation
3.08      Bidding documents have been completed for US$6 million of equipment
and for technical assistance. Design contracts for the major civil works
have been awarded. Financing for the design contracts is included in the
ongoing Irrigation Rehabilitation loan. For the small-scale irrigation
component, 70 schemes have been identified and designs for ten of these have
been completed, sufficient for the first year's implementation. The request
to include funds for volcanic disaster relief measures was received in
December 1985. Therefore this component could not be appraised.
Presentation of feasibility studies and final designs would be a condition
of disbursement for this component (para. 4.03 (a)).
Project Cost
3.09      The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$257.5 million, of which US$114 million, or 44% corresponds to the foreign
exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 15X have been applied to civil
works only and amount to US$12.2 million, or 6% of base costs. Costs are



- 12 -
based on April 1986 prices and include expected price increases over the
implementation period of US$46.8 million, or about 22% of base costs, plus
physical contingencies. Price increases were computed using the Bank's
projections for international and local inflation and for the changes in the
local currency exchange rates.
Financing
3.10      The proposed Bank loan of US$114 million would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange costs or 44% of total project cost exclusive of taxes. The
balance of project costs would be financed as follows: US$59.9 million
equivalent, or 23%, by HIMAT from Government budgetary transfers;
US$54.1 million, or 21%, by the banking system; and US$29.5 million, or 12Z,
by beneficiaries. A breakdown of project costs is presented in Annex 1,
Tables 4, 5 and 6.
Procurement
3.11      Three civil works contracts totalling US$29.5 million would be
tendered under ICB. These are the diversion weir in Saldana, the Cucuana
intake, tunnel and canal in Coello and the Corral-Matuya dam in Maria La
Baja. Assurances were obtained that HIMAT would submit the design of this
dam to a safety review panel before its construction and that the dam would
be periodically inspected after construction (para. 4.01 (e)). The remaining
civil works are small (less than US$2.5 million each) and dispersed in space
and time. They are unlikely to attract international firms and would be
procured under LCB procedures that would be acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for heavy equipment and vehicles of more than US$300,000 each would
be procured under ICB, while items such as motorcycles, office and workshop
equipment would be procured under LCB procedures that would be acceptable to
the Bank (Table 3.1). To be acceptable to the Bank, Colombian LCB procedures
would have to allow inter alia: (i) participation of foreign contractors and
consultants without requiring association with local firms; (ii) no
exceptions to the rule to award to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (iii) use
of market rates for shipping costs in bid evaluation. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that (a) HIMAT would follow procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank; and that (b) for all contracts for works of
US$700,000 or more and for goods of US$300,000 or more, the Bank's prior
approval would be required before invitations to bid are issued and before
contracts are awarded (para. 4.01 (f)). About 20% of the value of civil
works contracts and 83% of the value of equipment contracts would receive
prior review by the Bank.



- 13 -
Table 3.1: Procurement Procedures and Bank Financing
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                 Total
Project Element             ICB         LCB       Other      N.A.       Cost
Civil Works                29.5       82.7        27.6       2.0        141.8
(19.2)     (53.8)      (17.8)     (1.3)       (92.1)
Equipment                   9.9         1.6        0.4       -           11.9
(8.9)      (1.4)       (0.4)                 (10.7)
Credit & Farmer             -          -           -        79.4         79.4
Contribution                                              C-)          (-)
Technical Services          -          -          11.7       5.5         17.2
(Extension &                                    (7.6)     (3.6)       (11.2)
Consultants)
Incremental Operating       -          -           -         7.2          7.2
Expenses and Land                                          (-)          C-)
Total                      39.4       84.3        39.7      94.1        257.5
Total Financed by Bank   (28.1)      (55.2)      (25.8)     (4.9)      (114.0)
Note: Other Procurement Methods consist mostly of local limited competitive
bidding requizing at least three bidders.
Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be disbursed by the
Bank.
Disbursements
3.12      Disbursements would take place over an eight-year period and were
computed according to the Bank's disbursement profile for Colombia except
that 100% of the loan would be disbursed by the end of Year 8, whereas the
profile is for 98% disbursement by Year 8, and 100% by Year 9. Disbursements
would be made for 100% of the foreign expenditures for equipment, vehicles
and foreign consultants, 90X of expenditures for locally procured equipment
and 65% of expenditures for civil works, including the small-scale irrigation
component, technical assistance, training and local engineering consultants
(Annex 1, Table 6). All disbursements would be against statements of
expenditures except for contracts exceeding US$1 million, for which
submission of full documentation would be required in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Retroactive financing of up to US$4 million for expenditures
made after July 1, 1985, on account of civil works, goods and consultants
have been included in the loan.



- 14 -
3.13      At negotiations an assurance was obtained from HIMAT that it would
establish a Special Account in Banco de la Republica, in US dollars, to cover
all eligible Bank expenditures under the loan (para. 4.01 (g)). The Bank
would deposit up to an initial US$8 million upon receipt of withdrawal
applications. Subsequent replenishments by the Bank into the Special Account
would follow the normal procedures. An assurance was also obtained that
HDMAT would establish a Project Account for an amount equivalent to
US$4 million to cover counterpart expenditures, and that by June 30, 1987,
this Project Account would be fully funded (para. 4.01 (h)). The
establishment and release of a peso amount equivalent to US$1.2 million
(initial deposit) into the Project Account would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 4.02 (b)).
Accounts and Audit
3.14      Project accounts would be maintained by HIMAT in accordance with
consistently applied, sound accounting principles and methods, as has been
the experience under the ongoing loan. Project accounts, including the
Special and Project Accounts and statements of expenditures, would be audited
annually by the Controller General of Colombia which has been found
satisfactory by the Bank. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained from
HIMAT that audit reports would be submitted within six months of the close of
each fiscal year (para. 4.01 (i)).
Cost Recovery
3.15      Water charges are levied by a combination of a fixed per hectare
charge and a volumetric tariff. In two of the six districts covered by the
project, Saldana and Coello, water userst associations recover the full
annual costs of operation, maintenance and administration. HIMAT manages the
other four districts under the proposed project, and recovery of annual O&M
costs are still significantly below 100Z (Annex 2, Table 7). These districts
are in a poor condition and the resulting limited number of farmers receiving
full irrigation services is insufficient to recover full O&M costs in those
districts.
3.16      The project would concentrate on rehabilitating the irrigation
system in order to provide fprmers with a reliable service. At negotiations
an agreement was obtained from HIMAT on the annual O&M recovery targets for
each district, based on the progress of extending service coverage
(para. 4.01 (j)). Full O&M cost recovery in each district would be a
function of the time at which all farmers receive full service. Individual
farmers will pay their prorated share of the O&M cost not later than two
years after receiving such service. In the aggregate, and based on current
projected implementation schedules for the different districts, this means
that full O&M cost recovery will be achieved on average within eight years
(Annex 2, Table 7). In its annual review of the project progress report
(para. 3.05) DNP would specifically comment on the adequacy of cost recovery
levels achieved.



- 15 -
3.17      At negotiations assurances were obtained that two years after the
completion of civil works in any district, HIMAT would start investment cost
recovery through a land betterment tax, according to the regulations of the
Colombian Land Valorization law (para. 4.01 (j)). This law foresees a
repayment period of about 15 years and an interest rate corresponding to
FFAP's rate for land improvement loans, presently at 22%. Farmers owning
less than 3 hectares would be exempted from paying investment cost recovery.
This provision, together with technical assistance and the establishment of a
reliable irrigation service can be expected to accelerate intensive land
use. For the district of Ta Doctrina, financial viability of shrimp farming
would have to be demonstrated on the first 100 ha of the shrimp development
as a condition for disbursements for subsequent extensions (para. 4.03 (b)).
3.18      For the small-scale irrigation development to be supported under
the project, the number of schemes and their small size preclude the
possibility of a permanent HIMAT presence for their operation and
maintenance. Therefore, they would be farmer-operated. No widespread
problems with respect to operation and maintenance are expected, given the
good experience in existing farmer-operated small schemes.
rroduction, Marketing and Financial Analysis
3.19      The annual value of incremental production generated by the
project, about US$89 million equivalent in early 1985 pesos, would come
primarily from crops (95Z), shrimp (3%), and livestock (2%) (Annex 3,
Table 2). For all crops but sesame, soybeans and palm oil, the incremental
production would be small relative to national production and would be
insufficient to affect prices. For sesame and palm oil, however, the
incremental production would constitute 80X and 26% of national production
respectively. Since Colombia is a net importer of oil seeds, these
commodities are not expected to face demand constraints and marketing
channels are adequate to absorb the increased production. Moreover, foreign
exchange savings from reduced oil imports would amount to some US$30 million
annually at full development. Based on the analysis of nine farm investment
models, financial rates of return vary between 20% and 97X, demonstrating
that in all cases the private returns to farmers are expected to be
substantial.
Project Benefits and Justification
3.20      The project would increase productivity, employment and incomes on
about 6,900 farms in the six districts and on 3,900 farms in the small-scale
irrigation component. It would expand agricultural production significantly
and contribute to the expansion of exports of cacao, bananas and shrimp and
import substitution for commodities such as sorghum, milk and vegetable
oils. The project would generate some 6,300 man-years of additional
employment. The present 87,200 ha harvested per year would increase by 55%
to 135,200 ha (Annex 3, Table 1). At full development, after about eight
years, average incomes of farm family beneficiaries would double on average,
bringing the majority above the rural poverty level of US$210 per capita.
Currently 2,700 farmers, or 39%, live below the rural poverty level in the
six districts covered by the project, while in the areas covered by the



- 16 -
small-scale irrigation component some 70%, or 2,700 farmers, are estimated to
have incomes below the poverty level. The present average per capita income
of project beneficiaries in the six districts is estimated at US$1,400, and
would rise to an estimated US$2,700 at full development. This compares with
the 1982 average per capita GNP of US$1,460. In the poorer areas covered by
the small-scale irrigation component, incomes per capita are expected to
increase from average current levels of US$72 to US$196. The area occupied
by the poor represents about 14% of the district and small-scale project area
of 115,800 ha and about 16% of the project cost would be allocated to the
poor (Annex 3, Table 1).
3.21      The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 28% with a
range between 15% and 40% for the six individual districts. Investments in
the areas covered by the small-scale irrigation component would have a
satisfactory economic rate of return of 20%. Sensitivity analyses indicate
that for the project as a whole, it would take a 69% increase in costs or a
41% decrease in benefits to bring the rate of return below the Colombian
opportunity cost of capital of 11% (Annex 3). On the other hand, if more
intensive land use were to be achieved, e.g., from increasing the assumed
cropping intensity of 116% to 120% at full development, the ERR for the
project would increase to 32%.
Environmental Impact
3.22      The execution of the proposed project would not increase
environmental hazards. It is expe~cted that the technical assistance program
would rather reduce the presenc indiscriminate use of aerial spraying,
because it would promote the use of terrestrial applications of pesticides.
In addition the project would specifically tackle problem spots in the
watershedE of the districts where there exist about 3,000 ha of badly eroded
lands that contribute an excess of sediment. HIMAT would contract the
anti-erosion works (civil works and reforestation) to a specialized firm.
The total cost of this component is estimated at about US$2 million, or about
1% of baseline cost. To prevent a potential future shortage in obtaining
sufficient shrimp larvae from their wild habitat, HIMAT would contract
INDERENt* to develop a technological package for hatcheries development.
Project Risks
3.23      The economic risk appears to be low and is related to a slow
transition towards more intensive land use. At negotiations an assurance
was obtaiaed from the Government that, should there be indications that the
expected transition to intensive land use is slow, it would take corrective
measures (para. 4.01 (k)). The risk associated with shrimp farming in the
district of La Doctrina would be minimized by executing the component in two
stages. The first stage, to be implemented in the first two years of the
project, would cover 100 ha, or 11% of the total area to demonstrate its
financial viability (para. 3.17).



- 17 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a) HIMAT would employ consultants with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank to enable effective implementation of design, surveying,
and supervision of construction (para. 3.04);
(b) HIMAT would maintain a unit to supervise Project implementation
with staffing, functions and organizational structure satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 3.05);
(c) HIMAT would ensure that the Project Coordination Unit would be
responsible for submitting annual progress reports to the Bank and
DNP by June 30 of each year; such reports to include information on
the status of physical works under the project, progress in having
water users' associations increase their responsibilities in
irrigation districts, the impact on agricultural production and the
levels of cost recovery achieved. By July 31 of each year DNP
would provide the Bank with its comments on the annual progress
report (para. 3.05)
(d) Government would ensure that the necessary credit would be made
available by FFAP through financial intermediaries (para. 3.07);
(e) HIMAT would submit the design for the Corral-Matuya dam to a review
panel of experts acceptable to the Bank and the dam would be
periodically inspected after its construction (para. 3.11);
(f) HIMAT would follow procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank
and all contracts for works of US$700,00 or more and for goods of
US$300,000 or more wold require the Bank's approval before
invitations to bid are issued and before contracts are awarded
(para. 3.11);
(g) HIMAT would open a Special Account in Banco de la Republica, in
U.S. dollars, to cover all eligible expenditures under the loan
(para. 3.13);
(h) HIMAT would establish a Project Account for an amount equivalent to
US$4 million to cover counterpart expenditures and by June 30,
1987, this Project Account would be fully funded (para. 3.13);
(i) HIMAT would submit audit reports to the Bank within six months of
the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.14);
(j) For each district, HIMAT would achieve annual levels of O&M cost
recovery in accordaece with a schedule agreed at negotiations.
In addition, it would start investment cost recovery beginning two
years after the completion of civil works in a given district
according to the Land Valorization regulations (paras. 3.16 and
3.17); and



- 18 -
(k) The Government would take measures to intensify agricultural land
use (para. 3.23).
4.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) HIMAT would contract crop federations, ICA and individuals for the
provision of extension services for the major crops in each
district and and with SENA for training of farmers, water users'
associations and small scale irrigation (para. 3.07); and
(b) The establishment of a Project Account with an initial deposit of
US$1.2 million equivalent in Colombian pesos (para. 3.13).
4.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) HIMAT would submit to the Bank feasibility studies and final
designs for new irrigation schemes in the Armero area as a
condition for disbursement for this component (para. 3.08); and
(b) For the district of La Doctrina, HIMAT would submit to the Bank the
quantitative and financial results of the first 100 ha of shrimp
farming as a condition of disbursement for subsequent development
(para. 3.17).
4.04      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
a Bank loan to HIMAT of US$114.0 million equivalent; the terms would be 17
years including a four-year grace period and interest prevailing when the
documents are circulated to the Board.
February 28, 1986.



ANNEX 1
-19 -                        Page 1 of 7
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Project Description
A. Project Components
1.        The project would provide for:
(a) the design and construction of numerous small rehabilitation works
in all of the six districts;
(b) new small-scale irrigation development covering some 7,800 ha on
the slopes of the Andes and in the Northern savannahs where
minifundista farmers are heavily concentrated;
(c) replacement of obsolete equipment;
Cd) credit for improving crop and livestock management practice and for
on-farm development;
Ce) technical assistance and demonstration areas on a commercial scale
to promote farmer acceptance of supplemental irrigation, improved
cultivation practices and more intensive land use;
Cf) training of Water Users' Associations in district management;
(g) erosion control; and
Ch) reconstruction of existing and construction of new irrigation
schemes near Armero.
2.        The project is expected to be carried out over a period of six
years. Consulting services for engineering designs and technical assistance
would be procured locally. About six man years of foreign technical
assistance would be contracted for shrimp farming. Engineering designs for
civil works for the first year of construction were contracted in early
1986. Since the works are small and dispersed, the remaining designs would
be prepared gradually during the project period.
B. Project Areas
3.        Of the six districts, one is located at 1,400 m in Norte de
Santander and five in tropical low lands; two in the Department of Tolima,
and one each in Cordoba, Magdalena and Bolivar (IBRD 19223). The small-scale
irrigation component is concentrated on the slopes of the Andes and in the
savannahs of the North. This component would mostly irrigate fruits and
vegetables on the slopes and forage in the cattle area of the North. Crops
in each district are indicated in Annex 1, Table 1. Rice, cotton, sorghum
and oil palm are the principal crops. Except for Abrego and La Doctrina, all
districts have a seasonal shortage of water.



- 20 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
4.        The average holding for all six districts is 16 ha.  Even in Prado
de Sevilla, the district with land distribution skewed towards larger
holdings, the average farm size is still only 31 ha.  Overall, farmers with
less than 10 ha account for 62Z of the project's beneficiaries and 16% of the
land area (Annex 1, Table 2). The total number of beneficiaries in the six
districts is 6,900 families, while in the areas where small-scale irrigation
is to be developed there are about 3,900 farmers, giving a project total of
10,800.
C. Detailed Features
Civil Works for the Six Irrigation Districts
5.        The main types of civil works to be done in the six irrigation
districts are:
(a) major drainage or flood protection would be constructed in Saldana,
Maria La Baja and Prado de Sevilla;
(b) a diversion weir with sedimentation structure would be constructed
in Saldana;
(c) a second intake with sedimentation structure on the Cucuana river
with a 30 km long main canal to meet its water requirements would
be built in Coello;
(d) control structures would be installed in Maria La Baja to reduce
operational losses. This would be followed by construction of a
small dam;
(e) nine small river intakes with sedimentation structures would be
rehaabilitated in Prado de Sevilla.
(f) shrimp farming ponds would be constructed in La Doctrina because
its soils are very saline which together with its location near
marketing facilities make the district more suitable for shrimp
farming.
6.        The following list only includes the larger structures by
district. In all districts calibrated farm inlets would be constructed
(mostly Ballofet flumes).
(a) Abrego
-    Lining of existing canal Rio Frio and secondary canals
-    New secondary canals
-    Two small pumping stations with their power connection
(b) Saldana
-    Diversion weir across the Rio Saldana
-    Sedimentation reservoir in the main canal



-21-                          ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
River protectlon on the right bank of the Rio Saldana
Repair of main intake gates
Widening of canal Animas
Main drains
River protection dikes along the Rio Chenche
Widening of the Carmen and Holanda canals
Construction of two pumping stations, CRB1 and CRB2, at the end of
canal El Carmen
13 km of power line connection
Control structures in the main canal network
A linear move sprinkler installation
Cc)    Coello
A fuseable intake on the river Cucuana
1,800 m of tunnel behind the intake
A sedimentation reservoir
New canal Cucuana (30 km) with structures
A new canal distribution system in the Flandes extension area
Erosion protection at Los Pijaos
Control structures in the canal network
A system of teleinformation on water levels
A linear move sprinkler installation
Cd)    Maria La Baja
Electrification and repair of gates in the existing intake towers
Control structures in the canal network
A dam at Corral-Matuya
Canals and drains in the district extensions
(e)    Prado de Sevilla
Rehabilitation of nine small river intakes
Construction of nine sedimentation reservoirs
Extension and repair of the irrigation systems
Drainage network
Flood protection dikes
Roads along major canals
Rehabilitation of the administration center
Cf)    La Doctrina
Rehabilitation of the freshwater interceptor canal
A mixing canal
A seawater canal
A pumpiag station with its power connection
Distribution canals
Dikes and drains forming shrimp farming ponds
Protection of the Sinu river banks
Secondary irrigation canals



- 22-                       ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
Civil Works in the Small-Scale Irrigation Areas
7.        The works to be done in the areas covered by the small-scale
irrigation component are designed to make it possible to grow higher value,
short rooted crops during the two dry seasons, thereby improving the income
potential from very small holdings. Two types of development are foreseen:
(a) tapping perennial streams coming from the high Andes and
distributing water through underground PVC pipelines to garden type
sprinklers operating under natural pressure, largely for
vegetables; and
(b) damming intermittent streams in the North and using the water
stored in small lakes to irrigate mostly forage for dual purpose
cattle and some garden crops.
8.        The proposed schemes would number about 150 and would range in size
between 10 ha and 200 ha with average irrigated holdings of 2 ha and not
exceeding 10 ha. At present, four such schemes are under successful
operation and HIMAT has identified 70 other schemes of which ten of the
designs have been completed. HIMAT has developed a small-scale irrigation
program called -slopes and lakes- (laderas y lagos). Under the -slopes-
schemes, perennial streams from the high Andes are tapped with an intake
structure, and the small amount of water is ccnveyed via an underground PVC
pipe network. The excess natural pressure is reduced by pressure reduction
valves and water is supplied to the crops via small sprinklers connected to
garden hoses-. A farmer-elected watermaster, or common irrigator, is
responsible for the weekly rotation schedule, opening and closing the valves
of the lateral pipelines. This has worked well for the four operating
schemes (Tenza and Chiquiza in Boyaca, and Potosi and Dalmacia in Narino) and
the same system would be followed under the project. The irrigated areas per
farmer in the operational schemes are counted in fractions of hectares.
Farmers have rapidly adapted to cultivation of cash crops, such as tomatoes,
beans, onions, cabbage and a number of fruits. They have also learned to
adjust the timing of seeding to meet the period of highest prices in the
local markets at the end of the dry periods. The widespread use of small
sprinklers automatically solves the lack of on-farm development, which is one
of the most serious problems in public irrigation schemes in Colombia.
9.        For the savannah area in the North, the  lakes" component aims at
damming small intermittent streams to store the water thus obtained for use
during the dry season. Depending on the topography, irrigation can take
place either by gravity or by pumping from tne lakes. The most common use of
water in this area is expected to be for the cultivation o' irrigated forage,
given the existing livestock tradition.   Cultivation of small areas of
garden crops will also become possible. The availability of irrigated forage
will enable a small farmer at least to triple the number of animals per
hectare. In addition, it provides the possibility of producing milk
throughout the year. This is presently impossible given the lack of green
fodder and drinking water, the latter also resulting in high animal mortality
rates.



ANNEX 1
- 23 -                   Page 5 of 7
Civil Works in the Armero Disaster Area
10.       Upon request from the Government, a program for the rehabilitation
and extension of irrigation in the volcanic disaster area near the devastated
town of Armero was included in the project. The request was received in the
Bank while the appraisal was reaching the Green Cover stage. No cost
estimates were available for this component and Bank disbursements would be
contingent upon presentation of acceptable feasibility studies and fina;
designs for new irrigation works. The repair of the existing works on about
5,000 ha would not require such studies, since the minor investments involved
would not need to be justified. It is estimated that about 8,000 ha (net) of
new irrigation development would be constructed in three different
locations. The number of beneficiaries is presently unknown and for lack of
data no financial and economical analyses could be made.
11.       The Government requested that the originally foreseen much larger
small-scale irrigation component be reduced in such a way, that its original
cost would be equal to the cost for the Armero development plus the cost of
the reduced size small-scale irrigation component. This smaller size
small-scale trrigation component is therefore used in this report. Any
savings made in the execution of the Armero component would be used to
enlarge the small-scale irrigation component.
12.       During negotiations it was decided that one of the three locations
for new irrigation development in the Armero area of about 1,600 ha would be
equipped with linear-move sprinkler equipment in its entirety. It is thought
that such type of irrigation may be of great potential for future large-scale
irrigation developments in Colombia, not in the least because it would solve
the problem of the lack of on-farm development. Instead of a Government
irrigation service stopping at the farngate, the proposed solution would
result in providing a Goverment 'rainfall service."
Technical Assistance
13.       Under the project HINAT would contract the extension service
requirements to the crop federations that cover the different crops grown in
the project area. Under turn-key contracts, the federations would be
responsible for purchasing all necessary demonstration inputs, equipment and
vehicles (Annex 1, Table 3). Apart from the emphasis in improving standard
cultural practices,special emphasis would be given to demonstrate the
benefits from supplemental irrigation for all crops. This is necessary
because one of the main problems in the irrigation districts is that, with
the exception of rice and bananas, few farmers use irrigation although the
infrastructure is available in the districts. This results mostly from lack
of on-farm development. Thus, the crop federations would promote the use of
sprinkler equipment, since this is the most appropriate for annual crops
requiring a little supplemental irrigation.   In addition, it cannot be
expected that farmers will carry o-it land levelling when a substantial
percentage of their land is rented. For perennial crops, the more
appropriate types of irrigation would be gravity and localized irrigation
(e.g., drip). For the small-scale irrigation component, HDMAT would contract
extension service requirements to ICA.



-24-                          AIINEX I
Fage 6 of 7
14.       Based on the experience with the on-going FEDEARROZ and SENA
technical assistance contracts. as well as the cost of land levelling for the
rice demonstration areas, the basis for estimating the new technical
assistance contracts is Co]$ 2,400/ha (US$21/ha) for the crop federations and
Col$ 1,200 (US$10.50) per hectare for SENA, to be spent over a three year
period. The experience also showed that about 3% of the total hectares under
one particular crop should be used as demonstration area. Annex 1, Table 3
shows the guideline hectares in each district used to arrive at the value of
the technical assistance contracts with the various federations as well as
size of the proposed demonstration areas.
Training
15.       SENA is responsible for training of farmers.  Such training would
consist of improving farming practices (i.e., courses in repairing tractors,
home fabrication of cheese, etc.) and in interpreting and disseminating the
results obtained from the demonstration areas developed by the crop
federations. In addition, SENA would give courses in basic accounting and
administration to the Water Users' Associations to involve them in a more
knowledgeable way with the operational procedures of the districts. This is
necessary, because at present most Water Users' Associations function more as
a body for voicing criticism or requests to HIMAT's district management,
without showing much interest in the actual management of their district.
D. Project Cost
16.       The total cost including price contingencies is estimated at
US$257.5 million, of which US$114 million corresponds to the foreign exchange
costs. Physical contingencies for civil works of 15% have been included and
price contingencies amount to 22% of US dollar costs including physical
contingencies (Annex 1, Table 4). To compute price contingencies for the
Cost Table (Annex 1, Table 4) and the Schedule of Expenditures (Annex 1,
Table 5) all peso prices were first brought to a common date of April 1,
1986. Subsequently, local and foreign cost Liflation projections as well as
exchange rate projections published September 23, 1985, were applied to the
local and foreign cost components. Annex 1, Table 5 presents the deflators
used in the calculation of price contingencies which were derived from
Annex 3, Table 7, while Annex 1, Table 7 provides a breakdown of costs by
district.
E. Project Financing
17.       See para. 3.10.
F. Procurement
18.       See para. 3.11.
G. Disbursements
19.       See Paras. 3.12 and 3.13.



- 25 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
H.  Accounts and Audit
20.       See para. 3.14.
I. Progress Reporting - Monitoring and Evaluation
21.       See paras. 3.05 and 3.16.
J. Environmental Impact - Erosioti Control
22.       In the watersheds of the districts exist particularly eroded spots
which contribute excessive amounts of sediment. These would be treated with
a combination of reforestation and civil works (terracing, gully control).
RIMAT would contract this type of treatment to CONIF (National Company for
Forestry Investigation and Development) or similar organization specialized
in executing anti-erosion work. Apart from a 202 advance to establish tree
nurseries, the contractor would further be paid on the basis of a fixed fee
per hectare treated. An;aex 1, Table 10 shows the area, distribution and
costs of the proposed erosion control program. The costs are based on
present contracts for similar work done for the Corporacion Autonoma Regional
around the savannah of Bogota.



anUMA
PremitM/F e thctce  ad Yields
ftsnt ad fiutu  1'ctars    RC             Rim      sorgtm   Srg=    Boy ba   (bttcm   Oottcn    Seam    Ceau           tna    tis       Osea      Plaitan   Plauin
bt Diatrict bectase          fitiml  bent    Raited  irrirpted  Irripted  Raifed  Irripted Rduad IrrigRted Irrigated Ratfed  Irrigat   Rated   Irrigted
Abrq          Matisg                                                                                                            140
with Project                                                                                                      140
SaLk.         hIting         13,000        -                1,200
with Project    12,800      8,400              3,600
OeIDo         hitiriq        16,000         -      6,500     1,400        -      6,650    2,850    1,750      -
with Project    6,COO      10,000       -     10,500    7,000         -   11,0)0        -    4,000
Maria la Baja  Mating         3,100         -         -                                                                       1,100                1,950       ISO
with Project     1,500      3,000    1,000                                                                      1,IOD                1,600     1,200
Prad de         dat.ig        3,100         -                                                                          0                 2,900
Seville      with Project     2,500      2,040                                                                       2,3                 2,900
IA Dbctrina    Wdsthn           830         -                                                         20                        170          -       70
with Project       -       1.20 _D_                                                     -                        13           -       70
Thtal Hect    Mating         36,030          -    6,500       2,600       -      6,650   2,850    1,770        -       800    1,410      2,900    2,02D        150
with Pmject    2,800      24,600    1,000     14,100   7,ODD       6,650   11,000       -    4,000   2,3       1,370      2,900    1,670      1,2)
yiedb buflh
Ahbcp          Mdjting
with Project
SilAs.         Mdstirg             6,0        -        -          2.0
with Project        6.0        6.0       -          4.5
teI            wating              6.0        -         2.0        2.0     -          2.0      2.0      0.5      -
with Project        6,0        6.0       2.6        4.5     2,0        2.1      2,6      0.8      1.2
Maia la Baja   Mstirg              4.6        -         1.8                                                                        1.0                 4,0       7.0
with Project        5.2        5.5       2.5                                                                        1.8                 6.5       12.0
Prd dei         Mstirg             4.8        -                                                                          10                  10                                  ,, ,
Scull         with Pmject          5.2        6.0                                                                       22                   15
la Ibctris     Mating              4.8        -                                                         0.5                        1.0                 4.0
with Poject         -          5.5                                                       0.8                        1.8                 6.5
Febmey 27, 1986.



0O1 Pain 01 Palm                                                                Total ha
Pnt tai hture hectares                                                      Tobwc   lbbec       011 Palm !bdatirg      New               Fbrage    Lvro%vd  B sw         Buma       9wiqp    3dst1zq ad
by Distrtet har-m                olirs        De  TB mtos 1     Hoe  P ua  RPadnifdl Irrigate   Redtli   Dr4ip  rr. Plhtz   Qicad    Irrigated Pasture   Edt1ig  Drip Irr.  Farxim   with Prolect C/
Abrege         Eadtirz            290         145        65                                                                               -           -
with Project        360         18D       115                                                                             185         481                                       1,460
SaLida         Eidati,g                                                                                                                                                                       14,20D
with Ptoject                                                                                                                                                                   24,803
Coello         Exdstifg                                                       BD        160                                                                                                   35, 390
with Project                                                    -           IS                                                                                                 50,500
Ebria La Deja  Exbtirg                                                                                                                  1X        2,6                                         9,CGO
vith Pjrject                                                                                                              UO        4,60                                       14,400
Prfot   de    Fat1r-                                                                           7,60)         -        -     2,400                 1,2D      3,40           -                 21,40D
Se11         with Project                                        hOO                          5,axl    2,600    5,100      2,400                 1,60)         -      3,4M3                 30,3W
La lbctrina    Edaltil-                                                                                                                                                              -         1,090             h
vith Project    --                                                                     -                                                                __   930               2,330
Total hectam   Wattrl              290         145        65                  5)         160     7,600                       2,4i00      1to       3,800     3,4D0
with Project       360         180       115        6a                 1,503     5,000     2,6()0   5,C10    2,40D       585       6,68D                3,4X0      930
Yialds Movema
Abre            Edstn                0          0.8       20                                                                            Mlk 160 LU/ah L'ninpdv  Pture
with Pmject         20           1.3      35                                                                            Mil4k 1,675 Its//ha Irrigate  Forage + ( et 528 kg/ht)
Salda           Fjdsciz
with Project
o(eUz           Fadatirg                                                        1.0        1.3
with Pmject                                                     1.3        1.8
Miria la Heja   bdtLir                                                                                                                  Milk 160 Ltsha  1provd Rdnfed Pstume +  bwroved Pmture
with Project                                                                                                            Mlk 9o ItaAha Irrigted PstuWre + 4H  Tapmv  Pitux
(No irprwmment oontiuplated In  t  produictln)
Prnxo de        Eaxetsig                                                                            12      122/       -         5                          1,381J b
Sella           with Poject                                         12                             19       222/    24a,         0.8                                   2,10b/
La IDctrine     Fdatir,
with Project                                                                                                                                                         0..
Yield in tore of mF A.
b/ Crtwu per ha.  OmwuatonS 18 Vg. 
S/  Total hlctareeI hvr'tei  airw   fm  p         I  2.
Faxuay 27, 1986.



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Farm Size Distribution
Prado de         Maria
Abrego          Coello        Saldana   Sevilla          La Baja      La Doctrina      Total   Percent
Farm Size                                                 --Number of farms
0- 5   ha            408              785          916         534            479              21         3,143         46 %
5- 10  ha             19              130          166         135            552             143         1,145         16 %
10-20  ha             40              242          214         283            254              64         1,097         16 %
20-50  ha              8              535          175         193            137               0         1,048         15 X
50-100 ha              0              153           43         114             37               2           349          5%
>  100 ha              0               17            0          91             10               0           118         2X
Total Farms          475            1,862        1,514       1,350          1,469             230         6,900        100 %0
Farm Size                                                 Number of Hectares
0 - 5  ha            680            1,974        1,700       1,085          1,004              54         6,497          6%
5 -10  ha            168            1,950        1,246       1,680          4,570           1,055        10,669         10 X
10-20  ha            352            4,050        3,003       2,811          3,578           1,037        14,831         13 X
20-50  ha            200           10,028        5,402       6,390          3,638               0        25,658         24 X
50-100 ha              0            9,131        3,649       7,854          2,605             154        23,393        22 %
>  100 ha              0            2,867            0     22,180          1,905               0        26,952         25 %
Total HectareS    1,400            30,000       15,000      42,000         17,300           2,300       108,000        100 %
Source:  HDIAT.
February 27, 1986.                                                                                                                       t4



COLBMIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 11 PROJECT
Technical Assistance Contracts
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - aideline Mactares Under Crop a/ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Fruits and   tproved
all Pals    Bananas      Cacao    Citrus    Plantain    Rice         SorLmm    Soybeans    Cotton           Sesase       Tobacco   Vegetabls    Pascures b/  Shrip
Abrego                             -            -            -        -          -        '              -         -            -              -             -        475          665          -
Saldans                            -            -            -        -          -     10,600        1,840         -            -              -             -          -            -           -
Goello                             -            -            -        -         -       8,000       8,500      7,000       11,00n          4,000         1,500          -            -          -
Maria L.a  aja                     -            -            -        -      2,800      3,000        I,C           -            -               -            -           -       5,000           -
Prado de Sevilla              12,600        3,400       2,400    2,300          -       2,250            -         _            _              _             _        bO         1,0            -
la Detrina                         -            -            -        -         -           0-                                                               -          -            -         930
Tetal                         260           3            2,400  4  30230               I (W4O   4       0    noo          i10                S,OO                    1, 075      7%265         930
Dtsnstration Areas (ha) c/       350          100           70       70        80         700          340       200          300            120            45         30          200          100
Source of Tech, Assist.       Fedepalmi   Asobana   Fedecaca0  Private   Private   Fedearror   Fenalce &  Private   Fedealgodon   Federajonjoli   Private   Private             Fedesan     Foreign +
Fedearroz                                                                                   Local
Value of Crop Federation d/       30            8            6        6          7         57           27        17           26              10            4           3          17           72
C4ntracts (MIP mililon)
SENA Ctntract d/ (CblS million)  15             4            3        3          2         29           14         8           13              5             2           1           9            I
Value of Technical Assistance Contracts per District (Col$ million)
- - - -8/1/84 prices- - -            - - - -1/1/85 prices- - -
Federatlons           SENA           Federations            SENA
Abrego                               2.5               1.3              2.7                 1.4
Saldans                             27.3              13.6             29.8                14.9
Coello                              88.0             44.0              96.0                48.0
Maria La Baja eI                    28.3              14.1             28.3                14.1
Prado de Sevilla                    55.3             27.7              60.4                30.2
La Uoctrina e/                      72.0               1.1             72.0                 1.1
Total                                                                 289  2             T1097
a/  Maximau  nunber of hectares unt-r one crop during one semester.
61  Includes 585 ha of irrigated  forage and 6,b80 ha of Improved pasturel
cl  Between 22 and 52 of cropped area.  Guidetine is 32.
/   For all districts except Maria La Baja and La Doctrina In August 1984 prices.  For Maria La Baja and La Doctrlna In 1/1/85 prices.
e/  In 1/1/85 prices.                                                                                                                                                                                          gin
February 27, 1986.



-30                                          ANNEX 1
Table 4
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost a/
Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total          Local  Foreign  Total       Exchange
---Col$ million -                    USS million               Z
Civil Works b/                    6,850   5,841  12,691            39.7    33.9    73.6         46
Equipment b/                        144   1,517   1,561             0.8     8.8      9.6        91
Medium-Term Investment            4,863   2,820   7,683            28.2    16.4    44.6         37
Incremental Working Capital       2,050   1,034   3,084            11.9     6.0    17.9         34
Development Services b/             430      111      541           2.5     0.6      3.1        21
Engineering b/                    1,857      244   2,101           10.8      1.4    12.2        12
Incremental O&M                     430      368      798           2.5     2.1      4.6        46
Land                                199        0      199           1.2     0        1.2         0
Small-Scale Irrigation b/         1,004      858   1,862            5.8     5.0    10.8         46
Disaster Relief Program b/        1,792   1,520   3,312            10.4     8.8    19.2         46
Erosion Control b/                  294        0      294           1.7     0        1.7         0
Base Cost                        19,913  14,313   34,226          115.5    83.0   198.5         42
Physical Contingencies            1,138      965    2,103           6.6     5.6    12.2         46
Price Contingencies              18,508  15,940   34,448           21.4    25.4    46.8         46
Total Including Price
Contingencies                  39,559  31,218   70,777         143.5   114.0   257.5          44
a/   Prices of December 31, 1985 - US$1 - Col$ 172.37.
b/   Items financed by the Bank.
February 27, 1986.



DuGnaA
(fI'll Ilu) ,'
Tma                               M9 9Q87                                                           19e                            1989                              9                                 1991
C5W              Ueal  Fomigp   11ml              meAI  lnMlw  local               meal  9Mon  1twa                  Total  TorIgn  2cat tal   Yormg  lAS                              oAl  Pe   Loc 1uol  ?'a'  13
CQ tlbwla                                    44             12,691    S,842    6,AsD            874      433       471         2,116       971    1,143         3,443    2184       1.111      2,997    1,P39    1,611           2,Il       95      1.113         1,198       552       wZ
1*d                                          91 ,tb2                  1,517       244          3B        2          3           267      244        23           6b0       59    Sb             Sm                    b           is       2ID        26             -        - _
HoUr'I4e    lnwsmt                           37              7,b58     2,9       4,963 *3                  It       17           1AI        IA      115         1,151       434       741       2,w         S2I    I.ml           ,95S       ItI    I,2m          2,156    1,011     1,745
kmnal tUK"   CA,IcI                          34              1,54      1,034    2,050          63        214       424            Is       lb       la            1ra        hi      122         574       293       '2           429       24         85          an        as        s
w17t 5 srvl                                  21               S4        II2       41)          144       29       2is           147        11       26           148        11       117         to        12        48            2b        5        21            26         3       13
rwiJai                                       22              2,101       244    1,hS7          237        34       256           441        #2      In            b0         63      W)7         42         49       176           22        32       250           117        14      103
1mnatalWCA                                   44                PA        YA       433           19        is        21            73       34        J9           Ic        49        59         2 1%       69        5l          29n        of       104          23U       109       226
Lad                                           0                I"          0       199          64         0        64            41        0        43            77        2        77          10         o        20             5        0         5             -        -         -
sel1frahKw2ta1                               46              2,52        83      2,04           285       81       [0D           28S       85       2m            31        2 In     120          371      112       22            373       IU       MI            373      172       Mt
Dale  kUct F111 1,1S2 123    1'm2                                                              112       252       21D           112       1V       18D           662       3)        31A        t62       314       358           b2       D:         358          bb2      324       3S8
Mad    Cqitl                                  0                2'94        0       29%           0         0         0            29        0        29            65         0       65          b6         0        66            b8        0        b6            66        0        46
_s Owe                                       42            13,22b   14,312   i9,923          2,522       911    2,652          3,63      1,b63    2,231         1,437    1,291    4,123        7,729    3,343    4,36           6,242    2,7   )3,65   9         6,35S   2,462    3,864
mitcal tb2llni                               44              2,03        965      ,I3         122         b0                        72 424  2       224           6         2 MS     335         *?        a30       242           D29       42       27            I82       83 
Twal  3t flrt. Np.   n.3)                    42             3b,329   12,278   21,051         2,754    1,n32    12723           4,312    1,851    2,459          8,050    1,S77    4,473       85,76    1,544    4,b2b           6,SSI    2,715    3,6            6,486    2,5        3,942
Ddllcon_                                                                _                                1.22      1.14                   2 1.4    I,15            -        2S74       .W 19              2,05      I.7              2* 44            L2I              -      78       LSS
PrIm  E btlrIa                               4              34,44    25,9W     18,5 06                   227       241         O )        8b        862          5.36b    2.4A      2 t6l       7IS1   3,725    4023             S.553    3,924    4,629          20,t863   4,526    4,20
717UL P        CMI                           44             70,77    31,218   39,159         3,222    1,258    1,964           6,062    2,742    3,3D           21,136    6,U4    7,113        1S,92    7,2131   5,tS            IS.104    6,69    5,455         17,124    7,072   10,052
roa  Ouw  (L 1Ills,)                         42              210.7     88.6    122.1          26.0      6.0      I2.0          25.0     10.7      14.3           46.7     23.7      26.0        4.74    22.6      26.8           3.0    I2.8         U.2           37.6      24.8    22L
t8Lr R"Irst
lWior  v                                                      -                  -             -        2.05     0.98            -        2,23     1.42                     1.21      1,(         1 7 -   2.2U      2.i2            -       1.40      1.27            -       2.44    1.34
Prim  Qtlrzwilu                              54              44,8      25.4     21.4          0.1       0.3     (0.23           1.5       2,4      0.4            b.9       43       2b6       11.0       6.2      4,6            22.4      6.4      6. O4,6                 4t.8      7.8
11KM L. DIm OT                               44             l57.5      114.0   I431S         1h.l       t.3       9.8          26.8      12.1     14.7           51,6      25.0     28.6       54.4      2t.8      32.4           10.4     2.2    232              52.2      21.6    3,6
Ai   C    Lam  pM"  of        *r  31, 2995.
y IwISl   0,enant   Ior  Mw%w   laz  mu,unn.  sm  hwe 3, Table 1.
h isy  27, 18b.



N
COLLUWIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 11 PRCJECT
Schedule of Expenditures, f/ Sources of Financing and Disbursements (USS million)
IBRD
Schedule of Expenditures                      Disbursement                      Sources of Financing
FY     1987    1988      1989      1990      1991     1992    Total      Percent       IBRD    Government       FFAP and
Project Year    1        2         3        4         5        6                                                      local Banks      Beneficiaries
Civil Works b/                        5.1   1.2       23.0      '1.5      15.9     9.7      88.4         65 2       57.5        30.9            -
Equipment b                           0.2     t.7       4.5        4.0      1.5     -        11.9         90 X        10.7        1.2            -                 _
Mediua-Terc investment                0.2      1.1      7.8       11.3     14.9    22.1      57.4          -           -          -             43.1              14.3
Incremental Working Capital           3.7     0.5       1.2       6.2       3.3     7.1      22.0          -          -           -             11.0              11.0
Development Services b/               0.8     0.9       1.0       0.4       0.2     0.1       3.4         65          2.2         1.2            -
Engineeringb/                         1.7     2.7       3.5       2.9       2.1     0.9      13.8         65 2        9.0         4.8            -
Incremental O                        0.2     0.5       0.7        1.1      1.5      1.9      5.9          -          -           3.0            -                 2.9
Land                                  0.4     0.3       0.5       0.1       -       -         1.3          -          -           1.3            -                 -
Small Scale Irrigation b              1.1     1.1       2.5        2.6      2.9      3.0     13.2         65 2        8.6         3.3            -                 1.3
Disaster Relief Program/              1.9     2.1       4.4       4.8       5.1      5.2     23.5         65 2        15.2        8.3            -
Erosion Control /                       -     0.2       0.4       0.4       u.5     0.5       2.0         65 2         1.3        0.7            -
Physical Contingencies b/             0.8     2.6       4.1       3.2       2.5      1.5     14.7         65 X        9.5         5.2
Total                        T61T    26.9         7       5i.5      50.4    52.0    257.5                    114.0        59.9          54.1              29,5
Percent of
End-of-Year Theoretical                                                                              Project Cost    44 2        23 2           21 2              12 2
Disbursements                       7.6    16.3      29.3      26.9      20.3    13.6    114.0
Year 7      Year 8       Year 9
Colombia Ave. Disb. Profile c/        2 2    12 2      28 X      47 2      66 2    81 t      91 2         98 2       100  2
Loan 1996-CO Performance      c       0 2    13 2      34 X      52 2       -       -         -            -          -
Assumed for this Project              5 % d/ 12 2      28 2       47 X     662    81 2       91 2        100 2
Disbursements US  miLlion             5.7 d/ 13.7      31.9       53.6     75.2    92.3    103.7         114.0
a/   Including price contingencies.
b/   Items financed by IBRD.
c/   Percentages indicated are for whole years after Board Presentation.  For computational ease, Board Presentation assumed at 6/30/86.
d/   Initial Deposit in Special Account estimated at US53.0 million or 2.62 of the Loan.
Sourcet  Bank.
February 27, 1986.



_33 -                                    AN=    1
T;ebl 7
IRRG&fl0 IEEABILITATION fl PRJEM
District Investmit
Services and
District                Civil 1*bnks a/ ,#et              FId-rlg         Ttl Raa              oa
MGDI$ U$/h  blMDICS/b. Wl$ US$/ha   WU$    Hectare   lS$79
Abrelp                     38    238         54   339          9    56       101      1,400     633
Seldana                 1,591    931        255   149        282   165    2,128      15,000   1,245
QIeL1                   3,405    997        284    83       653   191    4,342    30,000   1,271
Maria la Baja           1,210    614        170    86        231   117    1,611    17,300       817
Pracb de SevilIa        3,547    742        22-5   47        620   130    4,392    42,000       919
La Doctrima               786  3,001        112   427        192    73    1,090       2,300   3,501
Subtotal Districts     10,577      -      1,100      -     1,987     -    13,664   108,000        -
Sinall-Scale IrrItipon   1,332   1,400        -    nA.        -    NA.    1,332       7,8D0   1,400
a/  InclxUig Pthysial Gmtneie; prices of 1/1/85.
hi/  Per physical ba equipped %with irrlgatm      I InratrUctr.
Februar-y 27, 1986.



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 1I PROJECT
ECUIPMENT AND VEHICLESi LOCATION, QUANTITY AND COST (IN 1/1/95 COL $ HILLIONI
PRADO DE
MARIA LA BAJA       LA DOCTRINA         SEVILLA               ABREGO            COELLO              SALDANA
UNIT                                                                                                                            T O T A L
COST     UNITS    COST       UNITS    COST      UNITS    COST       UNITS    COST      UNITS    COST      UNITS    COST       UNITS    COST
1        2         3        4         5         6         7        8         9        10       11        12        13       14        15
DRA6LINE 3/4 YD, TRACKS            16.0         2      32.0         0      0.0         2      32.0        0       0.0         I     16.0         1      16.0         6     96.0
DRAGLINE 3/4 Yn, NHEELS            22.0         1      22.0         1     22.0         1      22.0        0       0.0         2     44.0         1      22.0        6    132.0
HYDR.EICAVATOR 3/4 YD, TRACKS    14.0           1      14.0         0      0.0         1      14.0         1     14.0         1      14.0        1      14.0        5      70.0
HYDR.EICAVATOR 3/4 YD, WHEELS    11.0           0       0.0         0      0.0         2      22.0        0       0.0         I      11.0        1      11.0         4     44.0
FRONTLOADER I 112 YD                7.0         1       7.0         0      0.0         1       7.0         1      7.0         1       7.0        1       7.0         5     35.0
BULLDOZER 200 HP                   12.0         0       0.0         0      0.0         0       0.0        0       0.0         2     24.0         0       0.0         2     24.0
BULLDOZER 105 HP                    6.5         2      13.0         0      0.0         3      19.5         1      6.5         2      13.0        3      19.5        11     71.5
TRACTOR 80 HP                       2.3         2       4.6         1      2.3         3       6.9         1      2.3         3      6.9         3       6.9        13     29.9
MOTOR5RADER 120 HP                  8.0         I       8.0         I      8.0         2      16.0        0       0.0         2      16,0        I       B.0         7     56.0
VYIRO COMPACTOR 50 HP               2.0         1       2.0         0      0.0         1       2.0         1      2.0         1      2.0         1       2.0         5     10.0
HYDRAULIC BUCKET ROMER              4.0         1       4.0         0      0.0         2       8.0         1      4.0         2      8.0         2       8.0         8     32.0
SERVICE TRUCK                       7.5         1       7.5         0      0.0         1       7.5        0       0.0         1       7.5        1       7.5         4     30.0
FLAT BACK TRAILER                  12.5         0       0.0         0      0.0         0       0.0        0       0.0         1     12.5         0       0.0         1     12.5          w
DUMP TRUCK 4 h3                     4.5         6      27.0         3     13.5         9      40.5        2       9.0         9     40.5         6      27.0        35    157.5
BUS                                 4.5         1       4.5         0      0.0         0       0.0        0       0,0         0      0.0         0       0.0         1      4.5
4 KHEEL DRIVE VEHICLE               1.5         4       6.0         3      4.5         6       9.0         1      1.5         9      12.0        7      10.5       29      43.5
PICK UP/STATION WA60N               1.6         4       6.4         2      3,2         4       6.4         1      1.6         2      3.2         2       3.2        15     24.0
MOTORCYCLE                          0.2        11       2.2         3      0.6        24       4.9         4      0,8        19       3.9       12       2.4        73     14.6
CONCRETE MIXER 10 HP                0.4         1       0,4         1      0.4         2       0.8         1      0.4         2       0.9        1       0,4         8      3.2
REFRIGERATED HILK TANK              1.0         0       0.0.        0      0.0         0       0.0         1      1.0         0      0.0         0       0.0         1      1.0
200 HA LINNEAR HOVE SPRINKLER    29.6           0       0.0         0      0.0         0       0.0        0       O.C         1     29.6         1      29.6         2     59.2
FIIED RADIO                         0.3         3       0.9         1      0.3         1       0.3         1      0.3         1      0.3         2       0.6         9      2.7
MOBILE RADIO UNIT                   0.1         9       0.9         5      0.5        11       1.1        2       0.2        11       1.1       10       1.0        48      4.9
CURRENT HETER                       0.2         2       0.4         1      0.2         4       0.8         1      0.2         4      0.8         3       0.6        15      3.0
SEDIMENT SAMPLER                    0.3         0       0.0         0      0..0        2       0.6         0      0.0         4       1.2        2       0.6         9      2.4
TOPOGRAPHIC INSTRUMENTS             0.7         2       1.4         1      0.7         3       2.1         1      0.7         4      2.8         3       2.1        14      9.9
LABORATORY INSTRUMENTS               1.0        1       1.0         0      0.0         1       1.0        0       0.0         1       1.0        0       0.0         3      3.0
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                     1.0        1       1.0         I      1.0         I       1,0         I      1.0         I       1.0        1       1.0         6      6.0
BOATS                               1.5         0       0.0         3      4,5         0       0.0      0.0       0,0       0.0 00            0,0       0.0         3      4.5
TOTAL                                                 166.2        27     61.7        97    225.3        22      52.5        97      290        66    200.9        347     86,6       '-'
TOTAL IN COST PERIOD REPORT                           166.0               62.0              209.0                49.0              260.0               197.0



-35-                                   ANNEX 1
Table 9
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD             Disbursement                    Cumulative
Fiscal Year        During Semester         USS million          Percent
1987   12/31/86            3.0                    3.0              2.6%
30/06/87            2.7                    5.7                5%
1988   12/31/87            3.4                    9.1                8%
30/06/88            4.6                   13.7               12%
1989   12/31/88            9.1                   22.8               20%
30/06/89            9.1                   31.9               28Z
1990   12/31/89           10.3                   42.2               37%
30/06/90           11.4                   53.6               47%
1991   12/31/90           11.4                   65.0               57%
30/06/91           10.2                   75.2               66Z
1992   12/31/91            9.2                   84.4               74%
30/06/92            7.9                   92.3               81%
1993   12/31/92            5.7                   98.0               86%
30/06/93            5.7                  103.7               91%
1994   12/31/93            5.7                  109.4               96%
30/06/94            4.6                  114.0              100%
February 27, 1986.



-36 -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 10
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Erosion Control a/
Maria La   Prado de
Item                  Abrego   Saldana   Coello       Baja      Sevilla        Total
Hectares Treated             60      1,000      800        250        1,000         3,110
Investment (Col$million)
Nursery                  0.5         6.0       5.0       5.0         6.0
Fruit Trees              0.8        20.0      16.0       5.6        24.0
Timber Trees             1.2        15.0      12.0       3.6        18.0
Trees and Shrubs         0.7         8.8       7.0       2.1         7.0
Integrated Grazing       0.5        12.5      10.0       3.0        10.0
Civil Works              2.1        35.1      28.1       8.8        35.6
Total b/                 5.8        97.4      78.1      28.1       100.6         310.0
Total in 1/1/85 cost
(rounded)              4          71       57         21          73           226
a/   La Doctrina does not require erosion protection.
b/   In pesos of September 1985 - US$1 = Col$ 156.
November 15, 1985.



_37 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Project Organization and Management
A. Institutional Aspecus
Roles of Implementing Agencies under the Project
1.        HIMAT would be responsible for carrying out the project.  All civil
works, technical assistance and engineering services would be contracted to
firms, farmer's crop associations and individuals. HIHAT would maintain its
present Project Coordinating Unit with duties and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank and it would maintain a senior HIMAT staff member to be a full
time project coordinator (Para. 3.05).
2.        FFAP would provide credit for incremental working capital and
on-farm investment through the banking system. The medium and large scale
farmers in the six districts covered by the project would have little
difficulty in obtaining their credit requirements. At times however,
small-scale farmers (below 10 ha), who lack the financial capacity to
contract technical assistance, have limited access to credit.
3.        ICA and private Crop Federations would be contracted by HIMAT to
provide extension services under multi-year contracts to set-up an extension
and demonstration program, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. Such
a formula is working satisfactorily undier the first rehabilitrtion loan and
RIDAT would enter into such contractual arrangements within three months of
loan signing (para. 3.07). FFAP would accept the proposed technical
assistance project as a basis for farmers to obtain credit for on-farm
investments HEIAT would contract SENA to provide training to farmers.
4.        SENA would be contracted to provide extension services to the
small-scale irrigation component.
HIKAT - The Borrower
5.        Institutional Framework.  In 1976 the Colombian Institute for
Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement (HDMAT) acquired technical
responsibility for public irrigation and drainage districts, transferred from
INCORA, reflecting the decline of Agrarian Reform as a national priority.
HIMAT is governed by a Board of Directors from several public institutions,
presided over by the Minister of Agriculture. HIMAT's General Director is
appointed by the President of the Republic, so that the position becomes
vacant once every four years. New directors usually replace department
heads, as well as the 13 regional directors who are responsible for rtanagiug
HIMAT's activities in the country. This results in a frequent turn-over of
executive level staff and reduces opportunities for career growth of HIMAT
staff to executive level positions. HIMAT has a total staff of-l,942 of
which 585 are in the Central Office in Bogota (Annex 2, Table 1).



- 38-                          ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
6.        HIMAT's income derives mostly from Government transfers.  The
Condensed Income Statement (Annex 2, Table 2) shows that Government transfers
accounted for between 77Z and 82Z over the years 1979 through 1984. The
remainder of HIMAT's income is derived from watercharges. In 1984, HIHAT
recovered on average only 36% of the annual operation and maintenance costs
of the districts (Annex 2, Tables 2 and 4). Given the cost of HDMAT's other
responsibilities, operation and maintenance in 1984 only constituted 38Z of
HIMAT's overall costs. Nevertheless, HIMAT's total 1984 income increased by
36% over 1979 when expressed in constant 1979 pesos, but the amount spent on
O&M in the districts improved by 71% in constant terms over the same period.
HIMAT's condensed Balance Sheet is shovu in Annex 2, Table 3.
7.        Besides poor cost recovery, other major problems in the Colombian
irrigation and drainage districts are: (a) continued poor land use over large
areas in spite of the public investments in infrastructure; (b) lack of
on-farm development; and (c) the tendancy of Government to start construction
of new irrigation schemes instead of complvting its existing districts. The
first two problems are interrelated. From .Annex 2, Tables 5 and 6, it can be
concluded that in 1984 there were 274,930 gross hecLares in all operational
districts and that of these 214,983 ha, or 78%, were under un-irrigated
low-value use, such as grazing, scrub land, fallow and subsistence crops. In
the irrigation districts only, 294,191 ha were under crop (including double
cropping, but also scrub) but only 121,594 ha, or 41%, received irrigation.
Of the 274,930 gross hectares of all the districts, only 186,430 ha, or 68%
were equipped with infrastructure. This situation is reason for the Bank to
emphasize the rehabilitation and completion of existing districts, together
with technical assistance to farmers to promote better land use, before
participating in the financing of new districts.
8.        The reasons for the poor land use are the following:
(a) large-scale farmers have their land under extensive grazing, which
provides maximum risk-free zeturns to 1Tnimal annual expenditures. Once
Government provides'irrigation infrastLacture, such land owners cannot afford
the unacceptably high investments and greatly increased risks associated with
converting their unimproved pastures to irrigated crop land. This problem is
directly related to the size of land holdings; (b) in Colombia, the role of
the state in public irrigation and drainage development terminates outside
the farm. All work inside the farm, such as land levelling, is left to the
initiative of the individual farmer, who is supposed to take out medium-term
credit for this type of work. With the exception of rice, all crop water
requirements are for supplemental irrigation and harvests can be obtained
without irrigation. The official philosophy certainly results in a cheaper
initial public investment, but the lack of, or very long delays in farmers
completing their necessary part results in a poor overall economy. Other
irrigation countries, such as Spain and Morocco, went through the same
experience 40.years ago. As a result, they have drawn the conclusion that
Government had to take the final step of providing on-farm development in
order to realize the production potential expected from the public
investment.
9.        The Bank's approach to solve this problem in Colombia has been to
try to do the best within the unsatisfactory official framework. It is based



- 39                          ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
on: (a) establishing a reliable service to the farmers by the districts,
requiring a rehabilitated and completed infrastructure and new maintenance
equipment; and (b) a concentrated demonstration and extension effort to
convince farmers of the financial benefits to be obtained from on-farm
development. Under the first rehabilitation project this has been quite
successful by showing that the reduction in production costs would pay in
five harvests for the investment in land levelling in the case of paddy
rice. Under the proposed project such work will be intensified but with a
shift in emphasis on the use of sprinkler irrigation for crops in need of
supplemental irrigation. This would also solve the problem of providing
irrigation oa the sizeable percentage of land which is rented.
10.       Operation and Maintenance Costs.  Annex 2, Table 4 shows that in
1984 HIMAT's average annual cost of O&M in the irrigation districts with
infrastructure was Col$ 8,300 per hectare with a range between Col$ 3,700 and
Col$ 32,000. This compares to an average of Col$ 4,800 per hectare for the
two user-managed districts, Coello and Saldana. Even allowing for high
pumping costs in some of HIMAT's districts, the O&M costs are unacceptably
high in many cases as a result of over-employment. In the districts of the
ongoing project (Loan 1996-CO), the average production costs are about 71% of
the gross value of production. Using this percentage, O&M costs expressed as
percentage of farmer's production costs (Annex 2, Table 4, column 15) show
that average O&M costs are a reasonable 4% of the production costs in the
irrigation districts only, but that in some districts they amount to between
127 and 25% of production costs which is more than farmers are willing to
pay. It is not surprising, therefore, to see that actually collected water
charges (Annex 2, Table 4, column 17) never exceed 8% of production costs.
The gap between the high costs and low collections is filled by government
subsid.es.
1I.       Collection of Water Charges.  Water charges are billed twice a year
after the main harvest periods. HIMAT has an excellent centrally
computerized system in which its customers are registered. A new internal
HIMAT proposal is to earmark the collecLed amounts for use within the
district in which they were collected. However, there is no budgetary
incentive imposed by the Treasury to force HIMAT to collect recovery
charges. To the extent that water charges are not collected the transfer
from the Government budget is higher. Water Users' Associations exist in all
districts, but they are active only when there are a sufficient number of
well-educated, larger-scale farmers. In districts with many small farmers
and many beneficiaries of Agrarian Reform, farmers generally submit to a
paternalistic role by the Government, expecting free irrigation
infrastructure and cheap services. This is what the project attempts to
change through a training program.
12.       Although Colombian law has a policy on cost recovery corresponding
closely to that endorsed by the Bank, namely that farmers benefiting from
public investments should pay for them, the law is seldom applied in
practice. In a situation where, nationwide, only 36% of the annual O&M costs
in the districts is recovered, discussions about investment cost recovery
become rather academic. A recently circulated draft OED report on recovery
of water charges in 48 completed Bank irrigation projects concluded that



- 40 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
recovery of full O&M costs should take precedence over investment cost
recovery. The reason for OED's conclusion is the observed state of disrepair
and lack of reliable service and the resulting loss of public investment and
less than expected agricultural production in irrigation projects. The cost
recovery covenants for the proposed and on-going rehabilitation loan
correspond with the conclusion in the OED report by giving priority to O&M
cost recovery over investment cost recovery. HIMAT would introduce a
separate investment recovery charge, starting two years after all civil works
in a district would be completed. Realistic estimates, however, are that
only the first group of farmers would begin to pay such charges during the
last project year. A summary of the 1984 cost recovery and the proposed plan
for the reduction of subsidies is given in Annex 2, Table 7.
13.       The small-scale irrigation component is the poverty oriented
program in the proposed project. The about 150 individual irrigation schemes
under this program are restricted in size between 10 and 200 hectares because
of limitations in water resources. Their number and small size precludes
the possibility of a permanent HIMAT presence for their operation and
maintenance. Therefore, they would be farmer-operated. No widespread
problems with respect to operation and maintenance are expected, given the
experience in existing farmer-operated small schemes, provided that their
size remains within a manageable scope. The reason is that, when maximizing
returns per hectare, most farmers want to maintain the source of their
enhanced income.
B. Project Implementation
Implementation of the Small-Scale Irrigation Component
14.       HIMAT has created a special unit to organize and administer the
small scale irrigation component. A national radio and television campaign
has resulted in many requests for small irrigation schemes. Although the
original designs and supervision of construction for the first schemes were
carried out by HIMAT, it intends to divest itself from these activities
because of the hundreds of schemes planned. Instead, it intends to carry out
design and construction through local engineers and contractors while HIMAT,
through its departmental directorates, would maintain responsibility for the
selection process as well as overall administration and supervision of the
program. The program will contribute to bringing irrigation activities into
some of the remotest parts of the country.
15.       While relatively cheap in construction, because the "slopes'
component uses beneficiary participation whenever possible, the engineering
part is costly because of the diseconomies of scale. The Bank carried out a
rate of return calculation for what it considered the economically least
attractive case: a small lake scheme serving irrigated forage production
only. A rate of return of 20% was obtained for an investment in
infrastructure equivalent to US$ 2,000 per hectare. An investment of
US$ 2,000 per hectare was therefore assumed as the level below which no
economic justification of a mini-scheme would require prior Bank-approval.



- 41 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
16.       The following criteria would be used by HID4AT in administering the
small-scale irrigation component:
(a)  there will be a minimum of five families in one small irrigation
scheme;
(b) the size of one small scheme will range between a minimum of 10 ha
and a maximum of 200 ha;
(c) the maximum irrigated acreage per family will not exceed 10 ha;
(d) the investment in irrigation infrastructure will not exceed
US$2,000/ha equivalent. Exceptions will require prior Bank
approval;
(e) diesel motorpumps, when required, will be air cooled and with
manual starter. With this condition, the horsepower will be
limited to 37 HP per unit;
(f) for small dams, the cost per m3 stored will not exceed US$0.30/m3.
(g) pumps, sprinklers and mobile equipment, where such elements are
required, will be private property of the participants, who will
obtain them under medium term credit. Exception will require prior
Bank approval;
(h) participants in small schemes will not be charged to repay more
than 50Z of the cost of civil works (this applies in particular to
small dams);
Ci) the economic rate of return for each system will be at least 12%.
No economic justification for a small scheme has to be submitted if
its investment cost is below US$2,000 per hectare;
(j) participants in a small-scale irrigation scheme will establish a
User's Association with legal status, inscribed with the Ministery
of Agriculture;
(k) members of the Users' Association will pay an annual contribution
to cover their O&M costs;
(1) assistance for the establishment of Users' Associations will be
provided either by (a) the extension staff for Rural Development in
the Departmental Agricultural Secretariats, or (b) the extension
staff in the Community Action Program of the Ministry of
Government;
(m) for the administration of the small-scale irrigation program, HIMAT
will establish a special section at headquarters (Programa Pequeno
Riego de Lagos y Laderas). At the departmental level, the
responsibility for this component falls under the Development
Groups of the Section Operation for the (large) districts;



- 42 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
(n) technical assistance for Irrigation development
(technical/organizational part) will be provided by HINAT, the
Departmental Agricultural Secretariats, INCORA or other entities
contracted by HIDAT, for periods not exceeding three years.
Technical assistance for agricultural production under irrigation
will be provided by ICA, DRI or private persons contracted by
HIMAT;
(o)  the small-scale irrigation component would be a separate category
in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement of the proposed loan. The
ampunt would finance feasibility studies, design, construction and
technical assistance;
(p) the component will have its separate monitoring and evaluation
system. For each scheme, this would imply obtaining agricultural
information on the before' and 'after' project situation, as well
as information on the investment;
17.       The Bank would assist in financing the small scale irrigation
component with its base cost of Col$1,862 million (US$10.8 million).
Assuming an average cost of US$1,400 per hectare, about 7,800 hectares would
be involved, or about 156 schemes with an average size of 50 hectares each.
Assuming an average of 2 hectares per beneficiary, 3,900 beneficiaries would
be reached. As of July 1985, HIMAT had identified 70 sites for small schemes
and for ten of these final designs were completed.
18.      While water will be equally distributed among beneficiaries
according to the quantity available, it will be impossible to avoid
including some larger-scale farmers with these types of works. Such a
situation arises, for instance, when a small dam site is encountered on the
land of a large-scale farmer or an irrigation ditch crosses his land.
Therefore it is assumed that 70% among the beneficiaries, or about 2,730,
would belong to the poorest segment below the poverty level.



- 43 -                         ANNEX 2
Table 1
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
HIMAT Employment (6/11/85)
Central Office
Bogota                Regional
No. of Employees          Offices
Direction                                        4                   146  a/
Secretariat                                     31
Support Offices
Planning                                        50
Legal                                            7
Operational Control                              4
Sub-directorates
Fiuancial and Administration                   171
Irrigation and Drainage                         54                   954  b/
Hydrology and Meteorology                      264                   257
Total Bogota                                   585        Field   1,357
Total Permanent Staff                                   1,942
a/ Includes personnel for administrative services.
b/ O&M staff, of which 165 higher level employees and 789 permanent lower
staff, such as machine operators.
Source: HIMAT.
November 15, 1985.



- 44 -                                       A     2
M1a 2
EMIGTM          -    n IAI
HMO: Qmxdwnseed Ime Statesent
1979         1983           1984            1979         1983       19B4
- - - In  twutt 1979  AlS b/ - -- -
-  oS *dlll     __  __ 
nIcM                                           z               z            z
Govenrent Trvnsfer                      458.6  79    1,314.2  77   1,775.5 82
Water mnlP  a/                           81.7  14       321.7  19     306.7  14        81.7         138.7      111.9
VIteorOlgy and hydroMg services           1.2            18.2          57.4
Otber I     includ    p-i
year adjustnit                           36.1           50.4           19.0
Total Income                            577.6  100    1,704.5  100  2,158.6  100      577.7         734.7     787.8
COST
Mnagnemet and ad-fnistration wost        70.5  12      277.0  16    352.1  16
FERATD      - COE
Hydroff antd 1.terology                 171.7          467.3          541.1
Other operating ets                      28.4           53.8           85.7
Codtnsdtlio of regional offices          68.8          133.3          171.3
Mulntewie  In thegregis                128.3)         429.1)         625.1)        )             )         )
) 32           ) 35          ) 38    )180.0         )260.6   )3D7.3
( tim In 1the region                     51.7)          175.6)        217.0)        )             )         )
FIMIW       (DST                          2.6           150.4         233.7
Oter wosts, iwJinlig authnts
for prevmo. years                        44.5           39.3            0.1
Total Cost                              566.5  100   1,725.8  100  2,226.0  100       566.5         734.9     812.4
Siplus (defict)                          11.1          (21.4)         (67.5)
(Cst of ivg inex(Z)                     100            232            274
Water sa8d    inne as 2 of O( oosts     45%             53%           36%
a/ InlizlCjg interest on overues and  -t of tmajy equipment.
_/ xQdted byd tvigb   DSt of vxig            r
Soue: HIM.
Nbver 15, 1985.



-45-                                         AN=  2
Table 3
aixmIA
IRRn On   RlTON          III fl R
HIUAT: Cmdensed Balance Sheet (Col$ adilim)
1979         1983                                         1983      1984
ASSE5                                                            LTABUnXrES
Caxeat Assets                                                    Current Liabilities                345        849
Cash In Bmaks                            67       6      38      long t-erm lahUities               924      2,018
Receivables ad aivaxs paid            1,090           1,326
Tnvobmy                                 153            232       Otber                               12         22
Tbotl  wrreat assets                  1,310           1.6K       Total Liablities                 1,281      2,889
Fixd Asets
wnvtory in irrigatinw districts         495          11,047      E4I
Nehinexry and e*dpupt                   173             574
1Q'diuetexooegical statiuis             119             157      Cupital                             58         58
Stadtes                                 106             156      Annual finanrial results           (21)       (68)
Othbr assets                          1.43            2,142      Acuuilated supplies              2,322     12806
Ibtal fixed assets                    2.3D           14,076      Ibtal equity                     2,359     12,796
7btal Assets                          3,640          15,685      Tbtal liaialities and equity     3,640     15,685
- _ - - - - - - -nea  Rats - - - - - - - - - -
1983                             1984
1. owrrewt PtiAO (Qrreat assets  awrren  liabilities) in Z   1,310  :  345 -  380%          1,606 :   849  -   189Z
2. Debt: Equity ratio                                        1,281  : 2,359 - 35:65         2,889 : 12,796  -  18:82
S:c    HD.
?ber 15, 1985.



IWW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e llm 3t Inn(1N
olaalA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~SHX
1963                                                                                                             alH  Xt aHg                          Pnr       CI        ?mlta
lIth                                                   CIH                                                   am     i Per Ib tra-   4 t Cm             Pmd.     uita p        hr
19X3 kmh Pled                              .        k Q Vls e   nftAU           - L    06       4N    b        wm           Pl-d    Ricu       pwr GUP   la   t   ft         Pe  G#P. am
ThIAL hr  ftm*muu       z gm         aatl        aML   -IM&p_tW       R            TOW Clm                                         4 (O9  9J   (9a2)    (L           L The)   ((1d.IJ)  (10a00(
bIw46Utt lm              1           2          3           4          5           6           7          8            9         10           11         12          13        14         15          16         17
NPSI-                                          3,Z0        2,I         1,648      4,839      6,467         390         216        96           74           7          92    1140aD       32,0z         122       172          iI         22
PmA , di (1   0   50-M)                        3,300       2,41          391      4,996       5 3S          33          22          55       n.a.       n.&.           -           -           -        -          -           -          -
ma in                         it              19,5ND       0,0D       4.354      19,316      23,670        OB        1,027       1,435         83          17         2)2      3,SW       10,'dD        U          a           II          a
_                              1               2,mU          7         1,010     3,32D        ,4W        2me          148         356         19           2         II       4.,m       27,10         52         BX          It 12
bn html                                          53D          3         610          45         655        6t            A          n        n.m.       n.a.
li 04triz                     n                1,009       2,00       1,06b       3.622       4,6m2        114          56         170         3D           2          ?n    6t,sx         5,0         lag        25X          1          22
a   inl                        I               3,5m 3 s 3,             3,714      2,571       6,35         632          42        674          56          39         6      e 8B,S9D     16,o   SX               in          fi      BX
l3        R                                                  539         18 4       M54         736         35          41          76       n.a.       n...           -           -           -        -          -           -          -
Sm Alf                                         l,Sm        1,10        1,347     ,10          2,101        222          16        238          16           4         2.x     6,O        14,           72 9n                  n2         22
Prdn de SrilA                 U               35,sm       23,SOO     2,076       26,661      54,757      5,165       1,415      6,b0D          91          34         372      1,70        3,91         Li         n           Li          is
aOnp                          1t               2,OM        1,230         907      1,775       2,392        3sD          62        452          21           3         IU4      8, BD      17,502        st         n           12          12
La"                            I              15,0D        s9,o       11,326      9.061      23,647      1,410         513       1,953         D3          32         602      2,&6D       5,m          3X         Al          a           n
(sl n                         11              32,502      25,cm      2b,956      4,137       74,295      3,591       2,351      6,192          93         102        I12       1,33m        3,70D       2          n           a          a
RnI   da                       1              12,039       8,m       135,353     12,341     27,89        1,70B          19      1,727         5s          10 4n                1,839 6IDD               32         a1          22 a
S&Ldnu                        11              D3.03       13,O3       19,096     20,643      39,749      I,792          27       1,19          a           97        1I02      2, 23       6,BD         Ux         n           U          B
mm i                                          10.50       8O.0        6,152      13,610      9.822       1.443       1.49       2.932          72          36         Su9      1,         9,039        2          39          12         a       
Tbtal krnilm    Etridt                       165,47D    109.S30    121,594    172,597    294,191        17,839       7,448     25,337         746         414         552      2,OM )1    7,10D         393/       4/          n           z/ a
Hmu4hwd maaicta                              112,93D      71,5D      76,336    103,817    190,155       12,256       5,070     .7,326         565         215         34e    3.3m3         8,3  21    n             St         Ls         31
_-      d    0m t               uica          52,53D9     38,000     45,256      68,7       114,036      5,13        2,378      6,011         181         199        1102      1,600       4,69         a          12          22         32
No el (m   649.M)                             27,039      17.a0           0      29,O3D      29,09D          0         297         297       n.m.       n.m.           -           -
Alt   0dd    - Fryh                            9,913       7,sx           0       9,3r       9,370           0         243         245       n.A.       n.a.                       -           -        -          -           -          -
da4'a i   (tin  11630D)                       s55,D       39,00        1,54      75,55.      77,102        aJ        4,717      4,925        n.m.       n.m.           -                 -          -              -           -          -
Szly                                           B,O8.039    8,O           0       9,391      9,391           0         24         284          51          0           02      5,43        6,400       1d         252          02        o0
lerjJa                         I              10.IO3       5.CW          61      13      ,0      tB 13.068   7         672        679          39           5         132      3,00D       7,3          62         BX          Ix         I1
ThW  Mani owhm   Matrkta                     109,50D      76,9         1,609    136,322    137,931         215       6,215      6,470           -           -          -           -           -        -          -           -          -
1MJ   A.l*zAl         /                        1,4W        l,tW        n.n.        na..       n.m.        n.a.        n.a.       n.n         n.m.       n.m.           -           -
hn  Pra.& /                                    5,C             0          -           -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -           -        -          -           -          -
TAtl                                         281,33D    187,BD    123,2D3    398,919    432,122         13,104      13,663     11,767       1,023         MG          492      2,              -        -          -           -           -
bcal for I6DW4XIf    0Mtrcts 
P"i.   I~.1  hImALmt      ml
Kn Prod                                    222,4U      148,430     77.947    240.139    318,086       12,471      11,285     23,756         W  !       305 3        36       2,63        5,70)       4U          5           11         22
cb th boi   of hi        1tm  fw m I     1999-00, Ih    zW    praftien lo    is 712 of th1   mam  vii  at pm&ction.
1 klu      tn . tucid, go kfn  l ml RI Puhit.
3mlun  Qd1  oId aSl4 iM.
%aus me it ld, b* Im an mbiln.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  U.
a trid   -
3ml g   -ar     un2w 611w md  crub.
rho MW's 19U  nl1A.d balam dhat,
h.-l MM.
Ib_  15, 199.



cXIAM1IA
RRIGATION cEHHABILIFATIGA II PR JECT
HOWAT Productlion Statistics
1984 Area Planted                       -     1984 GrwOe  Valim of Productlon
UTirgated        Rainfed            Total                 ted          Rainfed _       Total
Ha       2       Ha        %       Ha        2        Col$ M         Col$ M     %  Cbl$ H      X
Pasture                                 12,882    10    116,940    38%    129,822   30%           546          2,854          3,400
Fallow an  Scrub                         4,982            87,329    28%    92,311    21%             -              -             -
Subsistence (kCps                          978             9,253            10,231                 367            815          1,182
Other Low Value Crops                       68             1,461             1,529                   1             58             59
Subtotal Low Value Crops           18,910    15%   214,983    70%   233,893   54Z             914    5%   3,727    27%  4,641    15%
Rice                                    63,111    51%      7,421            70,532    162        9,047    50%     703          9,750   31%
Cotton                                  10,058            22,123    7%    32,181                 1,566    9%   3,502   26%   5,068    16%
BWa'aa                                   3,470               607             4,077               2,255    12%    473           2,728
Cacao                                    2,944               657             3,601                 541             78            619
Maize                                      385             9,672            10,057                  44            511            555
Oil palm                                 6,796             2,416             9,212                 532            340            872
Plantain                                   834             3,758             4,592                 255            289            544
Sbrltvn l8,739                                            33,563    11%     42,302    10%          694          2,238    16%   2,932
Soybean                                  3,174             4,907             8,081                 386            479           865
Ibcto                                    1,158               160             1,318                 436             82            51b
Grapes                                     267                89               356                 368            111            479
Other High Value Crops                   3,357             8,563            11,920               1,066          ',130          2,196
Subtotal High Value Crops         104,293   85%      93,936    30%    198,229   46%        17,190   95%   9,936    73Z  27,126   852
lbtal                                  123,203   100%    308,919   100%    432,122   100%       18,104  100   13,663  1(O)%  31,767  1OOZ
Source: HT.
tNvember 15, 1985.
m 



RRI'GAInoN REHABH1XrAIION II ROJECT
S9mmry IlMAT Districts (1984)
ft Psical Hectares
Without            With
Infrastructure    Infrastructure        Tbtal
Ha       X       Ha        Z       Ha        %
Irrigation Districts                     55,900    20Z    109,530    402    165,430    60%
Drainage Districts                       32,600    122     76,900    28Z    109,500    40%
Subtotal Operating Districts             88,500    32%    186,430    682    274,930   100%
Modulos Retiailares and Rio Prado         5,000              1,400             6,400     2%                                                                     1
Total                           93,500            187,830           281,330   102%                                                                     c
Area Planted   -                                Gross Value of Produiction
Irrigated          Rainfed            Total            Irrigated           Ralned            Tbtal
Ha       X       Ha        X       Ha        X      Col$ M      2      COl$ M     2      Cbl$ M     Z
Low Value Crops a/                       18,910     42    214,983    50%    233,893    54X         914     3%      3,727    12U       4,641    15%
Hlgh Value CrOps                        104,293    242     93,936    222    198,229    46%      17,190    542      9,936    31%      27,126    852
lbtal                          123,203 b/ 282    308,919    72%    432,122   100%      18,104    572     13,663    43%     31,767   1002
Irrigation Districts                    121,594    28X    172,597    40%    294,191    682      17,889    57X      7,448    232     25,337    802
Draixage Districts                        1,609     02    136,322    32%    137,931    32%         215     0%      6,215    202      6,430    2
Total                          123,203    28%    308,919    72%    432,122   100%      18,104    572     13,663    43%     31,767   100%
/ Pasture, fallow, scrub, subsistence crops.  Lowest value crops are those umder "aunfed."
b/  Includes 1,609 ha irrigated in the M*cavi and Lebrija drainrge districts.
Source:  HIMAT.,
NNveer 15, 1985.



COWeA
IRRIGMTIoN REHABDIISATlGN II PFEB:C
1984 Water Qiargus a-d Cost Recovey Plan
Water Lurages          06H CoSts
06H                                    Receipts as   Reoeipts as   He cropped    Volumetric    Finxd           per ha
District             CstS          Bluing       Receipts      % of wets   % of billing per year e/         Cob$/m3  Col$/ha/yr   hurvted   /
-   -Cbl$ '000-   
Saldama           88,287            n,a         97,249         110%           100%         14,800          0.28       1,000         5,965
Prado de
Sevilla           90,849         46,963         34,438          38%            73%         24,300          0.18         779         3,739
Cbello           93,406             n,a        102,436 b/      110%           100% C/      37,310          0.28       1,702         2,504
Mara la Baja    82,596           22,023         16,620          20%            76%          8,400          0.18       1,440         9,833
Abregp            20,611          3,681          2,837          14%            77%            740          0.15       1,161        27,853
La Db,trina       29,501          6,284          2,365           8%            38%            960          0.31       1,440        30,730
a/  lUer-iimugaI districts.  OSM owets include adminlstration cDsts.
S   Exces8 percentage due to payment into equipmint replawnt fund.  Since amrtization of equipment is not included in the 064 Mets, the
110% is soewhiat optimistic.
C/ Altho4uh amoumt of billirg nDt available, the recovery percentage is reported to be high.
/ Excludes fallow and wiloproved pastures.
/ Whether irrigated or nDt.
AG=  0K 006r RBOVE   PLAN
Icome from Water Coarges as Percent of 06M Costs
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -frject Year- - - -                          - - - - - - -
Present         1          2            3           4           5          6            7           8         9           10
Saldana               110        100           80           80         80          eD        100          100          100        100         100
Prado de Sevilla       38         50           52           55         58          60         70           80           90        100         100
abello                110         100          80           80         81 80 100                          100          100        100         100
Maria La Baja          20          40          4.5          50         55          60          70          80           90         100        10D
Abregp                 14         25           28           30         35          37         39           50           60         70         100
La Dxctrina             8         30           32           35         38          45         50           60           70        8s          100
F 2   1
Fetm aary 27, 1986.                                                                                                                                               F



- 50 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Financial and Economic Benefits
A. Project Benefits
1.        At full development, the area under intensive cultivation within
the six districts is estimated to increase by about 42,000 ha per year
(Annex 3, Table 1) giving rise to annual increments in production valued by
year 12 at Col$ 10 billion (US$88 million) (Anniex 3, Table 2). The small
scale irrigation component is expected to bring into intensive production
about 7,800 hectares.
2.        Project beneficiaries in the six districts total about 6,900 and
differ substantially by type and size of farm between the various districts.
About 2,700 of them could be considered having incomes below the rural
poverty level estimated at US$210 per capita in 1984. With the project,
those beneficiaries would be able to increase one or two times their family
income. The small scale irrigation component would benefit about 3,900
additional families, of which about 70% (2,730) are estimated to be under the
Colombian rural poverty level. Most of them are expected to start producing
high value crops, such as vegetables, and impro-e substantially their income.
3.        Seasonal unemployment in project areas is high in the present
situation, although less than in the non-irrigated rural areas in Colombia.
Therefore, labor availability is not expected to be a constraint. At full
development, the project would create the equivalent of 6,300 man-years of
additional agricultural employment, most of it for unskilled labor that could
be supplied by family labor. Additional employment would be created in
marketing, processing plants and machinery services, as an indirect impact of
the increase in cropped areas and production.
4.        The impact of the additional production on Colombia's balance of
payments is highly positive. About Col$2,500 million of bananas, melons,
shrimps and rice would be exported annually and more than Col$3,900 million
could be reduced from imports with the additional production of oil-palm,
soybeans, sorghum and milk. (Annex 3, Table 1).
B. Financial Analysis
5.        Internal financial rates of return on all incremental resources
invested at the farm level vary from 20% for oil palm plantations (Prado de
Sevilla) to over 40% for annual crops. They are summarized in Annex 3,
Table 4. The private returns on equity would be much higher and the
opportunity to improve substantially the family income implies that there
sbould be ample incentive for farmers to adopt changes to be introduced under
the project.



-51-                         ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
C. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
6.        The overall rate of return of the project, for all six districts
except the small scale irrigation component, has been calculated on the basis
of a combined cost/benefit stream and is estimated to be 28%. All costs have
been included, except those for price contingencies. Economic rates of
return were computed for each individual subproject; details of each analysis
are included in the Implementation Document and are summarized in Annex 3,
Table 5. The economic rates of return of most of the subprojects are high
because of large sunk costs and the opportunity to incorporate new areas
under production with reduced investment for infrastructure. In the case of
La Doctrina a less outstanding rate of return is expected due to the
conversion of the district to a for Colombia new culture (shrimp farming).
7.        Activities under the small scale irrigation component will be
designed t_ ensure an attractive return on investment and to allow
significant increases in farmers' income. Present schemes under
implementation are expected to produce even better results than those
expected in rehabilitation districts, because of the small farmers'
incline_ion to maximize returns per hectare.  An economic an2alysis for a
worst case small-irrigation development, assuming only irrigated forage
production, gave an economic rate of return of 20% for an investment of
US$2,000 per hectare.  Since present small schemes required investments of
less than US$800/ha and are producing vegetables for sale in the season with
highest local prices, the average rate of return for the small-scale
component is expected to be over 20%.
8.        General assumptions and principles applied in the analysis are as
follows:
(a)  Output from the project was valued at estimated efficiency prices
at farm gate. For major commodities such as rice, sorghum, cotton,
soybeans, palm oil, bananas and milk, import or export parity
values were calculated and the Bank's 1984 constant price commodity
forecasts were applied. In the case of the remaining commodities,
output has been valued at the domestic market price adjusted by the
standard conversion factor. All prices used appear in the
Implementation Document, and are Pummarized for the base year in
Annex 3, Table 6.
(b)  Inputs were valued at estimated efficiency prices, either by
calculating specific conversion factors (e.g., in the case of
fertilizer and chemical pesticides), or by applying sectorial or
general conversion factors. In the case of unskilled labor, shadow
wage-rates were estimated for each region to take account of the
special circumstances of each regional labor market. The shadow
wage rate factor utilized in the Tolima department districts
(Coello and Saldana) is 0.80; and in the Atlantic coastal region it
is 0.68.



- 52-                       ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
tc) The without project situation was supposed to remain unchanged
during the analysis period, given the stagnation and decline in the
districts.
(d) In the analysis, provision was made for replacement of machinery
and equipment at the farm and district levels.
D. Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
9.        Sensitivity testing was carried out for each subproject and for the
project as a whole. For the overall project, the resulting switching values
for costs and benefits indicates that bringing the economic rate of return to
the level of the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Colombia (11%)
would require either increases of more than 69% in costs or decreases of more
than 41% in benefits. Also, assuming a slower development pace by lagging
benefits and on-farm operating and investment costs by one year still
produces economic rates of return high above the estimated opportunity cost
of capital. Given the relative unresponsivene-s of the economic rate of
return to delays in the adoption rate and changes in costs and benefits, it
is unlikely that rehabilitation of the project districts would become
uneconomic due to market or technical risks or delays in implementation.
Furthermore, the project will benefit from experience with the on-going
Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project, which has proven to perform
satisfactorily and has enhanced HIMAT's implementation capabilities and
procedures.
10.       Saldana and Coello are user-managed districts with qualified and
motivated farmers willing to expand their cropped area with an efficient use
of water. In the other districts risks would be possible because of farmer's
reluctance to invest in land leveling and to convert present extensive
grazing land into cultivation. To overcome those risks, all districts will
benefit from the technical assistance by specific crop growers federations,
which will establish demonstration areas at commercial scale as an incentive
for technical improvements in irrigation and cultivation practices. In the
case of La Doctrina only a small scale first stage is contemplated in the
first year, in order to test the viability of shrimp farming in the
subproject before major investments are realized for the second stage. Yield
assumptions for the shrimp farming component were kept at 22Z of those
considered obtainable by a shrimp farming consultant.



RIIGArn4 raux0m    11 pIaC
Mstrict Features asd Inwesnt
La      d.         la           Total      Percnt       small-ale        Total
Abrep   SIdanna    Coello      Baja    SevilUa   Dbctrin&     Districts  DMstricts       Irription       Project
lBefore Project
ERaltcal has wider crops                      350     7,100    18,430      7,200    18,700      790       52,570         49 2           3,500        56,070
wroved Pasture/                                 0       600         0      3,100     1,200        0        4,900          5X                -         4,900
Ikmpwed Pasture and Pallow                  1,050     7,30D    11,570      7,000    22,100    1,510       50,530         46 2           4130         54,830
botal Physical Hectares                      1,40o    15,000    30,000    17,300    42,000    2,300      108,000        100X2           7,800        115,80
With Project
Ehysical hus urder crops                      435    12,400    25,000      8,900    26,450    1,730       74,915         69 %           4,300        79,215
IJprowl PastureS a/                           665       iO0         0      5,400     1,600        0        8,265          8 %           3,500        11,765
Unluproved Pasture ad Failw                   300     2,000     5,OM       3,000    13,950      570       24 8ZO         23 X               -        24,820
Tbtal Physical Hectares                      1,400    15,000    30,000    17,300    42,000    2,300      108,000        100 %           7,800        115,800
Incr-  tal Prductive han (physical) b/        750     5,300     6,570     4,000      8,150      940       25,010                        4,m30
Future Fas haryested per year  b            1,460    25,400    50,000    15,800    30,300    2,330       125,290                        9,900        135,190
PresAt has harvsted per year                  640    14 840    35,390    10,400    21,400    1,090        83,720                        3,500        87,220
1Incntal has harvested per year               820    10,600    14,610                8,900    1,240       41,570                        6,400        47,970
(ow ing Intensity, Preet %                     46 %      99 2      118 X      60 2      51 %     47 2          -         18                45 Z
CroppingIntuuity, Fuure  Z f/                 104 2      169 2     167 2      91 X      72 2    101 2          -        116 2              127 2
tNaber of Direct 1mficiaries                  475      1,514     1,862     1,462     1,350      230        6,900                        3,900         10,800
Baeficiaries bealm   oerty Level              250       500        350       880       530      190        2,700                        2,730          5,430
Percent below Poverty lavel                    53 Z      33 Z       19 Z      60 Z      39 X     83 2         39%                          70 S          50 2
Project tOsts Directed to Poor CoD1 M          30.1      131.6     127.4    584.1      112.6   519.0       1,504,8                      937.4         2,442.2
Paercmta   of 0st Directed to bor              30 Z       6 Z       3 %       36 %       3 2     48 2         11 %                         70 2           16 2
C/   Includes irrigpted foreg.
Includes iqw!s wpasture.
Emi tw   udes  hioved Pasture.O*
Cbets eas-iti  of brmobnt In Civil UD*J,    pmit, DeMopeint Servieas, FgLneerIng aid hRysical aitinies.
FaWuy 27, 19B6.



-54-                                                        AME( 3
CaIA
DItTIQ     mniTm  H I      JEDr
Su9zi: Pzuh,ti  and 0mu Valu of Prodmctfo
1984
-Pvwje t 1_roducdon     -       Nationa     l11retl Project       -        e  Value of
am"          Wst        With Ph>ject bar itl          PiCdctio  Ppmaetu  a. X of         ldstkg    1Lth ftujea    Jncintal
OOv000 t                     10'0  t   N 1tiona1 Pwduction               -CoI.$
Rm                 198.2        271.0          72.8         1,695.8           4.3 Z           4,95         6,775.0        i,m1.
so5                 18.2         66.0          47.8           589.6           8.1 2             424.0       1,537.8       1,113.8
9^a                 -            14.0          14.0            94.1           14.9 2              -          630.0          60
IYsttmz             19.0         29.0          10.0           243.3           4.1 X           1,425.0      2,175.0          750.0
Sem                 0.9           4.8           3.9             4.9           79.6 2             70.0        3K.0           314.0
Cltns               8.0          50.6          42.6           611.8           7.0 Z             134.4        80             715.7
lhze                 1.2          2.1           0.9           864.3            0.1 2             33.8         581            24.3
CANInav             29.0         43.5          14.5         1,674.5           0.9 I             290.0        435.0          145.0
FlmtAhu             8.9          24.8          15.9         2,277.4           0.7 S             106.2        297.6          191.4
onamu               5.8           7.2           1.4         1,304.0           0.1 X             185.6        230.4          44.8
0.1          0.2           0.1          1.304.0           0.0 X              1.4          2.9            1.5
Tmwto.               1.3          4.0           2.7         1,304.0           0.2 Z              19.5         60.8          41.3
Tabscal             0.3           2.7           2.4           243.3            1.0 2             43.2        40S0           3618
01i PNI CM11)       91.0        272.0         180.0           695.3           26.0 2          1,048.8      3,130.3        2,081.5
Cmw                  1.2          L9            0.7            41.6            1.7 X            192.0        3D7.2          115.2
_ Sa                4.7           7.8           3.1           296.9            1.0 :          1,642.2      2,737.0        1,096.8
Milk                 1.9          6.3           4.4         2,798.0           0.1 2              47.5        157.5          110.0
mit                 0.4           1.9           1.5         1,121.4           0.1               32.0        1520           120.0
MeHms               -             7.2           7.2           611.8            1.2 Z              -          180.0          180
9p~                -             0.5           0.5            6.9            7.2X               -           265.0         265.0
TUIL    10,650.6      2,7J.7M       lO,ID.I
a/ In  00'D  om  of 18 kg.
In 115,z 19of L5.



-55-                            ANNEX 3
Table 3
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
1983 Export and Import Statistics
Exports                                       US$ million
X
Total exports                                    3,081              100
Total agricultural exports                       2,052               67
Coffee exports                                   1,506               49
Agricultural exports
Coffee                                           1,506               73
Plantains and Bananas                              148                7
Flowers                                            121                6
Raw sugar and molasses                              76                4
Beef                                                31                2
cotton                                              23                1
Others                                             147                7
Total                                            2,052              100
Imports
Total imports                                    4,968              100
Total agricultural imports                         373                8
Agricultural Imports
Wheat                                              127               34
Soybean oil and cakes                               53               14
Fish meal and fish oil                              30                8
Sorghum                                             27                7
Beans and pulses                                    22                6
Barley                                              21                6
Tallow (cattle)                                     16                4
Apples                                              15                4
Others                                              62               17
Total                                              373  a/          100
a/ Value of agricultural imports is 18Z of agricultural exports.
Source: DANE.
November 15, 1985.



- 56 -                       ANNEX 3
Table 4
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Income Levels and Financial Rates of Return
Financial Rate
Available Pre-Tax         of Return on
Farm Model              Income               all Financial
District               Size      Without Project  With Project a/ Resources
(US$ Per Capita) Ei            (Z)
Saldana             15 ha              1,490           2,940            77
Prado de Sevilla     8 ha (Model I)       770          1,830           n.a. c/
80 ha (Model II)  7,560          15,130            20
Coello               5 ha (Model I)      690             970            43
2f h- (Model IT)  2,240           3,480            97
Maria La Baja         5 ha (Model I)      180            490            84
20 ha (Model II)    180           1,050            26
Abrego               3 ha                300             920            48
La Doctrina         10 ha                420           1,320           n.a. C/
a/ At full development.
b/ In August 1984 constant prices. Average family size of 6.
US$1   Col$ 105.
C/ No internal rate of return exists because on-farm investment costs are
negligible.
November 15, 1985.



- 57 -                          ANNEX 3
Table 5
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Suwrary of Economic and Sensitivity Analysis
Sensitivity Tests
Best Estimate     Switching Values a/
Economic Rate of   Increase    Decrease       One-Year
Return (ERR)    in Costs   in Benefits   lag (ERR)
?.  %       X            Z
Saldana                         30             165         62            28
Prado de Sevilla                30              46         31            25
Coello                          27              44         30            22
Maria La Baja                   29              51          34           23
Abrego                          40             102         50            36
La Doctrina                     15              25         20            13
Total Project                   28              69         41            24
a/  Percentage increase in costs or decrease in benefits required in order to
reduced ERR to the economic opportunity cost of capital (11%).
b/ Benefits and on-farm investment and operating costs lagged one year
behind district investment.
November 15, 1985.



0UIA
TRRIRGATIG   FAWILAII. 11 FYWECr
FinAnln   and Fa lmc  Prices (0bl$/t) n/
Salduia         P&v& de Sevilla       d      ol]o             Ioria la Baja                                  La I)xtdlns
Finaial EoNrdc    Firnial Eoxoadc   Firancial  Ewm.1c   Finncial   ec                  Fina cal  Exxdc    FinEncLal  Fwadc
Rice         25,000   34,000      24,(00    33,000      25,000    34,000      24,000    33,000           -          -      24,000     33,000
SsEoqf       23,500   23,300           -        -       23,500    23,300      23,300    23,000                                  -          -
Cotton           -         -           -        -       75,000    81,2D0           -         -           -          -           -          -
Soybeam          -         -           -        -       45,000    42,100           -         -           -         -           -           -
Sesam            -         -           -        -       80,000    74,400           -         -           -          -           -          -
MIhze             -        -           -        -           -          -      26,600    24,700       32,000    29,800      26,600     25,0Q0 0
WA Palm          -         -      11,500   10,200           -          -           -         -           -          -           -          -
Citrus           -         -      16,800   15,600           -          -           -         -           -         -            -          -
Clcan           -         -     210,000  195,000           -          -           -         -           -          -           -          -
Banana?/         -         -     350,000  325,000           -          -           -         -           -         -           -           -
Plaitain         -         -           -        -           -          -      12,000    11,200           -         -       12,000     11,200
onlon            -         -           -        -           -          -           -         -       32,000    29,800           -          -
Tomto            -         -           -        -           -          -           -         -     *15,000    13,900            -          -
BEan             -         -           -        -           -          -           -         -      120,000   111,600     12D,000    111,600
Milk   /          -        -           -        -           -          -      25,000    18,000       30,000    19,600           -          -
Meat              -        -           -        -            -         -      90,000    83,700       00,000    74,400           -          -
swrims /         -         -           -        -           -          -           -         -           -         -          530        850
a/ Au0st 1984 prioes for all districts, accept Mbria La Deja and La Doetrina (January 1985), corresponding to bese project year.
bl In tlusands of bke.
c/ dwutlnds of liters.
Tn kg of hands-on shrimps.
November 15, 1985,



- 59 -                                  ANNEX 3
Table 7
COLOMBIA
IRRI&GTION iREHABILITATION II PROJECT
Price Contingencies and Devaluation
Inflation Index al    Exchange    --Conversion Factors-
Calendar   Project      Local    Foreign        Rate  b/      US$ Costs    Col$ costs
Year       Year       Cost        Cost         Index        into Col$ c/ into US$ d/
1984                  1.00        1.00          1.00           1.00           1.00
1985                  1.24        0.99          1.43           1.42           0.87
3/1/86                 1.3020      1.0124        1.5136         1.532          0.86
1986        1         1.49        1.06          1.76           1.87           0.85
1987        2         1.76        1.14          1.98           2.26           0.89
1988        3         2.07.       1.22          2.18           2.66           0.95
1989        4         2.44        1.32          2.39           3.15           1.02
1990        5         2.88        1.42          2.63           3.73           1.10
1991        6         3.32        1.48          2.89           4.28           1.15
a/  All indices are end-of-year.
F/ As of 12/31/84 US$1 = Col$ 113.88. The predicted exchange rate for 3/1/86 is
US$1 = Col$ 172.37.
c/ This column results from multiplying the foreign inflation index by the
exchange rate index.
d/ This column results from dividing the local inflation index by the exchange
rate index.
Source:  Programs Division LC2CL and OPS International Price Increases estimate
dated 8/15/85.
November 15, 1985.



-60 -                          ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
Implementation Document
Part 1 - Economic Analysis
Part 2 - Abrego
Part 3 - Saldana
Part 4 - Coello
Part 5 - Maria de la Baja
Part 6 - Prado de Sevilla
Part 7 - La Doctrina
Abrego:        Main report, 16 annexes, in total two volumes, prepared by
PiDelta.
Saldana:       Main report, Adenda, and 15 annexes, in total eight volumes,
prepared by Ingenieria e Hidrosistemas Ltda.
Coello:        Main report, 12 annexes, in total nine volumes, prepared by
Sodeic Ltda.
Prado de       Main report, 11 annexes, in total four volumes prepared by CPT
Sevilla:       Ltda.
Maria de La    Main report, 13 annexes, in total seven volumes, prepared by
Baja:          Hidroestudios Ltda.
La Doctrina:   Main report, 10 annexes, in total six volumes of which volumes
1, 5 and 6 in the project file, prepared by Estudios y
Asesorias Ltda.
La Doctrina:   Estudio de factibilidad para el cultivo de camarones en
cautiverio, one volume, prepared by HIMAT.
La Doctrina:   Evaluation of the Potential of the La Doctrina Irrigation
District for Shrimps Farming, one volume, prepared by Tropical
Marine Technology, Inc.



COLOMBIA                                                 iS                                                  4                                                7
I RRIGATION                                                 o          s    o    s    0                                 
-   REHABI'LITATION    11                                                o1                 so                Igo               I,SO               lo001
PROJECT                                                                                     UtS/(>
Project Distrlrcts                                                                                                                              *     4rf            ;O 
First Rehabilitation Projrctc (Loan 1996   CO)Rth C                                                                                                   v    |.  
-    Puvt3d Irunroads                                                                     5ANA MAQIA 0                 DSbil1 ,011eSstsr<' 
---Un,ooved roads                                                        8CNQI             _                     rf '                          ; .e-                                    f      -
.r. .Railroad diSconlinued                                                            s     s:1^,                                                                             -
O  Inlernofional airports                                                         } 1                                       .   -,    
iD Paved airports                                                                                        S...  ,   ,a."s,lng 
* UnpatvedJ airpor ts                                  C AR lAGEtNAg                                              A.'  0  1 -s__*\           
. Rivers                                                         ' <       nn:t.o
o0                          Deporiment boundaries                                                            t                                                                                                                   0v, .... -,,,fsgX0  
._ _International boundaries                                           /4a--F^r                                                4a*(Ph!                               .c 
C %4ntr222nolol}kPlalEs *v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                            .n.  
41s   t                         >    1 ' "                                  >    ) 9                              1    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VL ' '   Z U E L A
t,tiQ ' d X .S.Ak .... P~~~~~~-s"w 
tS \ z O,,' '9 ', ,, *; \.X,\,, '' t - o- . o.- ." .... ..~~
\   r  ,-                                    J                                         BjS             ' '      sula                               "_6._vz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13i 
x   }  .    j    : t           F                                          '                     _ .   I      h CAUCA5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 1V 1~  w OW, I
5~~~~~~~~~~~~ A             -- -'   , n ;.,a,,
9 ~~~~~~~~~~~Oe I.'ll.  ^I at''J,Otuee? 
z*> * aD~e  #@ SAs   S OU%4POIO%J  S}   _i   40HaOte      t   /   s*Jl P,              is0  #I .O   UCT                           C
&';' ~~~~~~~~;-   |   ; - f;d;|>   SE%_'0_  v   *  Y   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q' ~~~~~ _S  S 3  ''  S +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  G -rl:^  JE  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   X  |.....
V I;''   'JC%4I5JX  'nRU   #j^%'1:^lA'   ,;Xa   .IBrp   :    !  ,  E                                                /<   -'A 



i       cl.    o0   calcal             I          .1 - '. , ,%  i "       Coracora
Arog                                                                               % 050.1
Plo Bo,,.o                              S,                                     E ifabot           I                                    cta,o No'le
be..                                                                                                           w
A.
U'lic                                                                                                                        c.cur                                         columare
0                                                                              Oita
Ob
SQ'I'a'.0   N.
A                                       No,                                                              I                                             N,calw
Valle                                                                                         01424.1,                                                                          *oPdz de Ampon
Data  a                                                   Dito                               *, Tablo. dlTa,o
L                   pa pi              111"COO
or
U,Dl
14 J's O
R                                       N     w Savor                                      A                                              *6 y'-dad
row...
Ai                                                       2      la
N                                                                 T\
*p6j"Orco de uplo
goto
OMENIA
Rafael de, 1`4
IDAG
Poce/ic   Ocoon                                                                   4 1                                    9
uso cosL                                       V  tAVIC      I
NO                      I                                                                             .*F". 0001
-O.
Podw
Sa,                                                      So- L.,%O..                                                                                            15- &d-
sit ,Sa- Yd.
C 1,000"al      W     SO SALDANA                                                                                                 F'1_111                          b
is"d
S.. J-    do Mara                                                                                         T
ICA
Oda
G.d.r..
T,.b          1,10  -co        ci_,                                                                                                                                            2  EL
m
N
0     a                                                Algec"s
V.0p,
PAYAN
od
La JcII                           %;iaa, v corlfdo Cuip,Q:                                                                                                                   o  arre
eo:b a                            \ 11%              t                                                                                                                                    funle                /1            O
F.               4   WP
20                                                                               84,lidlat lies                                                                                                                                                OIA
1..Oca                                                                       ,aSa,                                                                                                                t,             AIMA
-el
Rosa       v L04 NCIA-              II Do                                                                                                                                       are
%  molar"d                                                                                                                                      C'
N                                    p  1-ya-bol"
mi                                                                                                                                               T".Rch,p 0
IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W.
I    e           STO                                                                                                                                                                             klascowd
_,d.GCOA
'eq.
F..los                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ie
A.
Pro As.,
4,
-V
0.
M
t'.                       'U-A'D 0  R
CA)
I.4



