Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. t6584
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
(LOAN 2667-CO)
May 16, 1997
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col$)
Average Exchange Rate for 1996
US$1.00 = Col$ 1037
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONPES           -  Consejo Nacional de Politicas Econ6micas y Sociales
(National Council for Economic and Social Policy)
ERR              -  Economic Rate of Return
FEDERRIEGO    -  Federacion Colombiana de Distritos de Riego
(Federation of Irrigation Districts)
FY               -  Fiscal Year
HIMAT            -  Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y Adecuaci6n
de Tierras
(Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land
Improvement)
INAT             -  Instituto Nacional de Adecuaci6n de Tierras 1/
(National Institute for Irrigation and Drainage)
IRR              -  Internal Rate of Return
ha               -  hectares
O&M              -  Operation and Maintenance
PSR              -  Public Sector Reform Loan
SAR              -  Staff Appraisal Report
SSI              -  Small Scale Irrigation
UNDP             -  United Nations Development Program
WUA(s)           -  Water User Association(s)
Vice President:          Shahid Javed Burki
Director:                Paul Isenman
Acting Division Chief:   Jonathan Parker
Staff:                   Elsie Garfield
1/    The Institute changed its name and functions from HIMAT (Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia,
Meteorologia y Adecuaci6n de Tierras) to INAT in 1994. Throughout this report, INAT will be used.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 1I PROJECT
(Loan 2667-CO)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ............................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ............................................................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction .................................................I
A. Project Objectives ..................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............4
D. Project Sustainability ..................................................5
E. Bank Performance ..................................................6
F. Borrower Performance ..................................................7
G. Assessment of Outcome ............                .....................................8
H. Future Operation ..................................................8
I. Key Lessons Learned ..................................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
I . Summary of Assessments .10
2. Related Bank Loans/Credits                                    .1
3. Project Timetable                                       .1
4.   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                             12
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .13
6.   Key Modified Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .                     15
7. Studies Included in Project                                   .16
8A. Project Costs .......................................                                   17
8B. Project Financing .......................................                               18
9A. Investment Costs ....................................... I 9
9B. Irrigated Areas ....................................... 19
9C. Production Impact ....................................... 19
9D. Economic Budget .......................................                                 20
10.  Status of Legal Covenants .......................................                      21
11.  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................. 23
This document hag a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Page No.
12.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................                                  24
13.  Bank Resources: Missions ...........................                                      25
APPENDIXES:
A. Mission's Aide Memoire .....................................                                26
B.  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR .....................................                   35
C. Map IBRD 19223 - Project Location



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
(Loan 2667-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Irrigation
Rehabilitation II Project in Colombia, for which Loan 2667-CO in the amount of
US$114.0 million was approved on March 25, 1986 and made effective on February 24,
1987.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1996, two years later than the original closing
date. Final disbursement took place on November 14, 1996, at which time a balance of
US$ 16.9 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Elsie Garfield of the Natural Resources Management
and Rural Poverty Division, Country Department III of the Latin America Region
assisted by Juan Morelli, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, H.J. Nissenbaum
(Consultant) and Carmen Nielsen, LA3NR. The report was reviewed by Jonathan Parker,
Acting Chief, Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division (LA3NR) and
Robert Crown, Project Advisor, Country Department III.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's completion mission of August-
September 1996. The Borrower has reviewed the report and does not wish to make any
comments; their contribution to the ICR is contained in Appendix B.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION H PROJECT
(LOAN 2667-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   In the early 1980s, the Colombian Government requested Bank assistance to
rehabilitate and complete 15 of the 22 publicly owned irrigation and drainage districts,
most of which had been constructed by the land reform agency in the 1960s. The Bank
agreed to a phased approach: Rehabilitation I (Ln. 1996-CO) covered 8 districts, and
Rehabilitation II covered 6 districts. The two operations overlapped from 1986-88. Both
projects aimed at expanding agricultural production by improving the contribution of
existing irrigated areas which was well below potential.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    Rehabilitation II's objectives were to: (a) increase crop production in six districts
through rehabilitation and improved technical and extension services leading to more
intensive land use; (b) improve the incomes of 3,900 poor farmers through small-scale
irrigation development; (c) partially restore agricultural production in the volcano-
damaged Armero area through irrigation investments; and (d) improve the sustainability of
public irrigation investments through full recovery of operation and maintenance (O&M)
costs, and the building-up of water user associations (WlUAs) in the districts covered by
the project. The project components included: civil works and replacement of
maintenance equipment in the 6 districts; design and construction of small-scale irrigation
schemes (SSI); civil works and design studies for the Armero region; erosion control;
credit for farmers; and technical assistance and training for farmers and WUAs.
3.    The project's objectives were fairly clear, but unrealistic in terms of the
implementing agency's capacity and country experience. The rehabilitation component
was more than triple the size of the first project and new components were added at the
last minute in areas where the irrigation agency had little experience. The key project risk,
slow intensification of land use, was underestimated and the measures for minimizing it
were inadequate. The realism of the objectives was also questionable, because the
Government did not fully endorse the strategy giving priority to rehabilitation over new
investment and did not recognize the need for supportive sector policies.
4.    The project's objectives should be looked at in historical context. Prior to policy
discussions under the Bank's Public Sector Reform loan (PSR, Ln. 3278 approved in
1990), focus was on the production objectives for the 6 districts and SSI. Subsequently,
both the Government and Bank gave increased emphasis to achieving the sector policy
objectives, in particular the transfer of district management to WUAs which was not



iii
treated as an explicit project objective at appraisal. The new irrigation law adopted in late
1993 reinforced this.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Project implementation was initially slow and never improved sufficiently to
complete the project. Delays in achieving loan effectiveness and completing design studies
were compounded by periodic counterpart funding shortages and inadequate sector
policies. INAT's ineffectual management caused serious problems throughout, particularly
in procurement. The small scale irrigation component suffered from poor quality works
and inadequate support to farmers. At the time of the mid-term review in 1991, it was
estimated that without a major improvement at least five more years would be required to
complete the project. There were improvements, though, when the enabling environment
drastically changed. In 1994, new INAT management began to strengthen O&M recovery
and speed-up the transfer to WUAs. These events figured importantly in the two
extensions of the loan's closing date. Following the second extension, project activity and
disbursements accelerated. However, it was too late to make up for all the lost time and
the loan closed in mid-1996 after eleven years' disbursements, with 15% of the loan
amount canceled.
6.    The project partially achieved its objectives. In regard to the first objective,
INAT's failure to complete the civil works in four of the six districts combined with
farmers' failure to intensify land use in all but one district resulted i 'ittle impact on
production. Consequently, the updated economic analysis shows an IRR of 7.8% for this
component, far below the anticipated 28%. For the second objective, while the
achievements for the area and number of farmers were nearly double the targets, in 1996 a
majority of the projects were not working adequately. Therefore, it is unlikely that the
ERR of 20% for this component was achieved. In regard to the third objective, there is no
estimate of impact; the target for rehabilitation in Armero was met, but the new project for
the area was dropped.
7.    Finally, relative to the fourth objective, achievements for sector policy are
satisfactory. At appraisal, targets were set for O&M recovery based on expectations
concerning improvements in irrigation service; transfer of management to WUAs was to
take place once full cost recovery was achieved, but no timetable was set until 1990 as
part of the PSR. While O&M recovery is 100% in only 2 of the 6 districts, it has
substantially improved in all districts which is consistent with the project's original goal
that full recovery would be achieved when the civil works were completed. All six
districts financed by the loan are now being managed by the WUAs, though some still
need substantial assistance to improve capacity.
8.    Project sustainability is uncertain. It remains to be seen whether the Government
and INAT will respect their commitment to complete the project within a reasonable
timeframe so that the benefits of the investments made up to now can be more fully
realized. However, even if the works are completed, it is still uncertain whether farmers
will make on-farm improvements to intensify land use, particularly in the face of credit
problems and violence in rural areas. Yet a positive factor that strengthens the prospects



iv
for intensified land use is the changed incentives framework which has put pressure on
farmers to improve productivity, reduce costs and increase the efficiency of water use.
The sustainability of gains in cost recovery and WtUA management is promising but
uncertain. A positive sign is the more active role some WUAs are taking to seek solutions
to their problems which could contribute to the long-term sustainability of the investments.
9.    The Bank's performance was deficient particularly during project design. It
would appear that pressures to lend resulted in the Bank making an overly optimistic
assessment of the on-going operation, rushing to appraisal before the civil works had been
designed, glossing over some fundamental differences with the Government concerning
strategy and policy, and inadequately evaluating and addressing the project's risks.
Supervision was inadequate until the later years when it was too late to make up for lost
time. The Bank did not monitor closely the key project risk and when the mid-term
review recognized that it had materialized, no effective actions were taken (see para. 3).
On the other hand, the Bank made repeated efforts to right the project's unsteady course
and contributed in its policy dialogue to the Government's thinking which resulted in the
pioneering irrigation law. In 1994, the Bank responded energetically to new opportunities
offered by the law, new leadership in INAT, and initiatives of farmers in the Maria la Baja
district. Intensive supervision accelerated project activities with 22% of total
disbursements taking place during the 16 month period following the second extension of
the closing date.
10.   Both the Government (Guarantor) and INAT (Borrower) performed
deficiently, though in the later part of the project the Government adopted policy reforms
and the new law which may contribute to a favorable outcome. The Government failed to
show a strong commitment to the project, and oversight of INAT was weak and sporadic.
The project was badly weakened too by the Government's failure to keep in place a
sufficiently competent technical and managerial team in INAT, along with its frequent
restructuring of the agency from 1990-94. At critical moments, the Government and
INAT have given higher priority to financing new projects, which apparently have higher
political returns, than to completing and improving the performance of the existing
districts. In this regard, firm commitments to complete the project made to the Bank at the
time of extending the loan closing date are now in question.
11.   INAT's performance was deficient which reflected in part broader management
problems within the institution aggravated by excessive turnover. It failed to maintain a
separate project unit with management authority, a key factor in the satisfactory
management of the first project. Procurement and contracting were particularly deficient.
INAT failed to monitor and improve the availability of critical ingredients for project
success: credit, good extension services and appropriate training for WUAs. However,
after the second loan extension, INAT's performance did improve substantially and it took
a number of positive actions.
12.   The project attained several useful ends, but its outcome is rated as deficient.
However, if the Government completes the project as promised, an acceptable rate of
return of as much as 18.8% could be achieved (para. 14). Furthermore, the changed



v
sector and economic policies improve the prospects for the long-term development of the
sector.
Findings and Key Lessons
13.   Some key lessons of the project related to its "quality at entry" are as follows:
(a) it is better not to proceed with a lending operation until fundamental agreement on
strategy, objectives and key sector policies has been reached;
(b) the scope and objectives of a follow-on project should be carefully calibrated to
the capacity of the implementing agency as demonstrated in the project under
implementation;
(c) project risks identified at appraisal should be closely monitored and credible
solutions found if the risk does materialize;
(d) to be successful, irrigation and drainage projects must pay attention to agronomic,
economic, institutional and social issues in addition to engineering;
(e) an engineering-minded irrigation agency with a narrow mandate and limited
experience in agricultural matters is unlikely to have sufficient interest and capacity
to ensure that on-farm development activities are adequately carried-out;
(f) the experience in Colombia has shown that WUA management can be an important
contributor to improved cost recovery and maintenance; the logic that
rehabilitation of irrigation works is a prerequisite to full cost recovery and transfer
of management to WUAs was flawed;
(g) greater involvement of WUAs and the irrigation agency's regional offices in the
design and implementation of the project would have improved implementation;
and
(h) low recovery of O&M costs is not necessarily a result of farmers unwillingness to
pay or the irrigation agency's poor capacity as a bill-collector, but may stem from
long-standing socio-economic problems which a good social assessment during
preparation would have uncovered.
Future Operations
14.   The second extension of the closing date was based on Government's commitment
to complete the project using its own funds (estimated US$34 million required) by end of
1997; an action plan and set of performance indicators were agreed. However, in response
to competing investment priorities, INAT has now programmed completion of the project
for the year 2000. The Bank has sought clarification from the Government about when it
plans to complete the project. Currently, there are no plans for a new lending operation,
but support for strengthening the WUAs through an Institutional Development Grant and
an EDI seminar is planned.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
(LOAN 2667-CO)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
I.    In the early 1 980s, the Colombian Government requested Bank assistance to
rehabilitate and complete 15 of the 22 publicly owned irrigation and drainage districts,
most of which had been constructed by the land reform agency in the 1960s. The Bank
agreed to a phased approach: Rehabilitation I (Ln. 1996 for US$37 million) covered 8
districts, and Rehabilitation II (US$114 million) covered 6 districts.' Both projects
emanated from the goal of expanding agricultural production in the face of a sharp decline
in the growth of agricultural output and rising demand due to rapid urbanization; the
growth potential of rainfed agriculture was not expected to be sufficient to meet this
demand. Since the contribution of existing irrigated areas (accounting for 2% of land used
for agriculture) was well below potential, the Government and Bank agreed that
investment to improve these returns was a priority.
A. Project Objectives
2.    Rehabilitation II's objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were
to: (a) increase crop production on 108,000 ha of six districts through rehabilitation and
improved technical and extension services leading to more intensive land use; (b) improve
the incomes of some 3,900 poor farmers located on about 7,800 ha. through small-scale
irrigation development; (c) partially restore agricultural production in the volcano-
damaged Armero area through reconstruction and addition of irrigation facilities; and, (d)
improve the sustainability of public irrigation investments through full recovery of
operation and maintenance (O&M) costs and the building-up of water user associations
(WUAs) in the districts covered by the project. The project components included: civil
works and replacement of maintenance equipment in the 6 districts; construction of small-
scale irrigation schemes (SSI); civil works and design studies for the Armero region;
erosion control; credit for farmers; and, technical assistance and training for farmers and
WUAs.
3.    The project objectives were fairly clear, but unrealistic in terms of the
implementing agency's capacity and country experience. The project was presented as a
follow-up to Rehabilitation I, which was perceived at the time as being successfully
implemented: civil works in over half of the districts were then well advanced and crop
output increases were considered promising. However, the rehabilitation component of
One district was dropped from Rehabilitation II during appraisal, bringing the total number of districts
covered by the two loans to 14.



2
the second project was significantly more demanding: the area to be rehabilitated was 3.5
times and the cost 3.2 times that of the first project. This stemred from a compromise
whereby the Bank agreed to finance some large civil works in order to increase the
irrigated area instead of focusing solely on rehabilitation. The project scope kept
expanding up to the time of Board approval to include new components in areas where
INAT had little experience: (i) small scale irrigation; (ii) an erosion control component
added after appraisal; and (iii) a new 8,000 ha. irrigation scheme for Armero which was
added at the Government's request during negotiations despite the lack of feasibility
studies and the fact that INAT had only built one large project in its decade of existence.
Thus, during the design of the project, its objectives became increasingly unrealistic, and
its risks multiplied.
4.     Another critical issue relating to the realism of the objectives was the
Government's lack of full agreement, despite the impression given by the SAR and mid-
term review, with the strategy giving priority to rehabilitation and intensified use of
existing infrastructure over investment in new works.2 Nor did it share the Bank's
concern that government policy against financing on-farm development posed serious
problems, as a high proportion of land in the districts was under low value crops. Both
sides made compromises in order to get the loan approved, but over the course of the
project these differences re-emerged and may account for Government's lack of drive to
complete the project in the face of competing priorities for use of investment funds.
5.    The key project risk, slow intensification of land use, was underestimated. The
measures for minimizing it were inadequate: technical assistance, training, access to credit
for farmers, and a clause in the loan agreement that committed the Government to take
corrective action, if this problem arose. Lack of supportive sector policies was not cited
as a risk. Yet, it was not until the Government approved the first framework for irrigation
development in mid-1991 (CONPES, Irrigation Development 1990-2000) and then
translated the policies into law in late 1993 that the sector policy framework fully
supported the project's objectives.
6.    Finally, these objectives should be looked at in historical context. Prior to policy
discussions under the Bank's Public Sector Reform Loan (PSR, Ln. 3278 approved in
1990), focus was on the production objectives for the 6 districts and SSI. Subsequently,
both the Govemment and Bank gave increased emphasis to achieving the sector policy
objectives, in particular the transfer of district management to WUAs which was not
treated as an explicit project objective at appraisal. The new law which gave farmers a
central role in all aspects of irrigation reinforced this.
2   Project preparation nearly broke off when the Government became angry at the Bank's unwillingness to
include some new, large scale projects, because of their poor economic justification and the underutilization
of existing irrigated areas. While the Government eventually accepted this for purposes of obtaining the
loan, evidently it did not accept the strategy.



3
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    The project partially achieved its objectives. In regard to the first objective,
INAT's failure to complete the civil works in four of the six districts combined with
farmers' failure to intensify land use resulted in little impact on production (see Table 5).
Consequently, the updated economic analysis shows an IRR of 7.8% for this component,
far below the anticipated 28%. Yet, the Prado Sevilla district did achieve satisfactory
economic returns (an IRR of 23 percent) and average farm incomes grew 30 percent.
Two other districts have positive IRRs (3% for Saldana and 7% for Maria la Baja,
assuming that the works contracts in progress at the closing date are completed) and
farmer incomes also improved in the La Doctrina district.
8.    In regard to the second objective, while the achievements for the area and number
of farmers were nearly double the targets (16,500 ha. and 8,000 families) for SSI, in 1996
a majority of the projects were not working adequately. Data on the economic returns are
scarce, but it appears that the working schemes did have returns consistent with appraisal
estimates, though it is unlikely that the global ERR of 20% was achieved. In regard to the
third objective, the target for rehabilitation in Armero was met, but there is no estimate of
the impact (the SAR contains no evaluation either); the new project for the area was
dropped in part because of concerns about the economic retums.
9.    In regard to the fourth objective related to sector policy, achievements have been
satisfactory compared to appraisal expectations. The project's underlying logic was that
once the infrastructure in the districts was improved, irrigation service would improve,
which would lead within 2 years to full recovery of O&M costs, at which time the
irrigation agency would transfer district management to the WUAs. Thus, targets for
recovery of O&M costs in the SAR were set in function of expectations concerning
improvements in irrigation service. No timetable was set for transfer of management to
WUAs. Due to substantial delays in the civil works, the targets for O&M recovery were
formally revised downward in 1991 and 1995.
10.   Since 1993 when the new law was passed, cost recovery substantially improved
and the transfer of district management to WUAs accelerated. While O&M recovery is
100% in only two of the six districts supported by the project, it has substantially
improved in all reaching 60% for the four WUAs in Prado Sevilla and ranging between
17-50% in the other three districts. INAT needs to phase out the subsidy quickly for the
WUAs in Prado Sevilla, whereas the other three districts merit more careful consideration
in view of difficult underlying problems such as poor profitability and high debt of farmers.
Transfer of management became an explicit objective of the project in 1990 and all six
districts under the project are now managed by the WUAs. From 1989-1995, INAT
transferred 13 districts to WUAs including the four project districts not yet



4
managed by WUAs and most of the districts financed by the first project.3 While much
remains to be done to strengthen the capacity and management of the WUAs, a major
break with the past, paternalistic role of the Government in the agricultural sector is
underway.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.   Project implementation was initially slow and never improved sufficiently to
complete the project. Delays in achieving loan effectiveness (nine months) and completing
design studies (two years) were compounded by periodic counterpart funding shortages
and, in the early years, inadequate sector policies. Procurement proved to be a continual
headache, particularly before a new procurement code came into effect in 1994; delays of
6-12 months between bid opening and contract signature were common. This was
aggravated by INAT's insistence on small, inefficient contract lots for civil works,
apparently due to political pressures on behalf of local contractors. At the time of the
mid-term review in 1991, it was estimated that without a major improvement at least five
more years would be required to complete the project. The review also recognized that
the agricultural aspects of the project were going poorly: the applied research and
extension approach was not having the desired impact, and the project's impact on
production and farmers' investment in on-farm development could not be adequately
assessed due to unreliable data.
12.   The small-scale irrigation component suffered from poor quality works and
inadequate support to farmers. INAT failed to provide enough manpower for the SSI
program, to coordinate it properly internally and with the communities and other agencies
concerned, and to monitor and evaluate its activities. The Bank's 1989 SSI Loan
(311 3-CO) financed completion of 30 of the projects and eventually helped address these
problems.
13.   There were improvements when the enabling environment drastically changed.
This began in the early 1990s in the context of the PSR when the Government and Bank
agreed to change the underlying logic of the project: WUA management was sufficiently
important as a contributor to improved cost recovery that it should take place even before
works were completed and full cost recovery achieved (via negotiation of a plan for
phasing out the O&M subsidies). While INAT fell short of fully meeting the PSR targets
(ICR, Rpt 14882), the amount of attention focused on the sector policy objectives was a
major milestone for a project which included them primarily as window-dressing.
Meanwhile, other positive changes in the enabling environment were underway: (i) the
Government introduced a medium term program of structural reforms; and (ii) the 1991
Constitution supported economic liberalization, popular participation, decentralization,
and modernization of the state. Despite this progress, in frustration over INAT' s failure
to explain the persistent low levels of O&M recovery, in February 1992 the Bank declared
3   The goal of transferring all the districts (8 are still managed by INAT, accounting for 36% of the total area)
by 1997 was adopted as part of the Action Plan for the second extension of the loan closing. However, it is
unlikely to be achieved given wavering interest on INAT's part and some difficult social and economic
problems which make transfer complex for some of these districts.



5
ineligible for loan financing three of the six districts;4 a subsequent study showed that
failure to pay was related to the low profitability of the districts and long-standing
problems such as high debt.
14.   The improvements in sector policy and replacement of INAT's top management
led to a sense of optimism about the project's prospects and the Bank's decisions, in 1993
and 1995, to extend the loan's closing date. Following the second extension, project
activity and disbursements accelerated in large part due to improvements in procurement
introduced at the Bank's insistence. However, it was too late to make up for all the lost
time and the loan closed in mid-1996 after eleven years' disbursements, with 15% of the
loan amount canceled. However, based on the Government's plan to finish the project
using its own funds, the loan closing did not signal the completion of the project (see para.
27).
D. Project Sustainability
15.   Project sustainability is uncertain. It remains to be seen whether the Government
and INAT will respect their commitment to complete the project within a reasonable
timeframe so that the benefits of the investments made up to now can be more filly
realized. Another possibility is that the WUAs will organize financing to complete the
works, though this seems unlikely for poorer farmers such as those in the Maria la Baja
district. However, even if the works are completed, it is still uncertain whether better
utilization of the infrastructure and the improved returns will be realized. The cost and
availability of credit for on-farm development may continue to be a problem, as well as
continuing violence in rural areas which discourages investment. The sustainability of
gains in cost recovery and WUA management is promising but uncertain. The Coello and
Saldana districts continue to be strongly managed and the prospects are good that the four
WUAs in Prado Sevilla will find a way to manage the district properly in view of the high
value crops and relatively bigger and wealthier farmers involved. The case is less certain
for the other three districts and SSI where the farmers are poorer and in greater need of
capacity building and technical support.
16.   At the same time, factors which strengthen the prospects that Colombia will make
and sustain progress towards the project objectives include: (i) the revised incentives
framework which pressures farmers to improve productivity, reduce costs and increase the
efficiency of water use; and (ii) the legally recognized importance of farmer participation
and WUAs, and signs that they are beginning to more actively seek solutions to their
problems. More support for WUAs will probably be provided by the Federation of
Irrigation Districts (FEDERRIEGO) which is exploring how it could make itself stronger
and more responsive to its members needs.
4   The 3 districts accounted for less than 30% of the area and an even smaller proportion of project
funding for rehabilitation. Two districts, La Doctrina and Abrego, were small and rehabilitation
works had been completed by the time of ineligibility. In the Maria la Baja district,, rehabilitation
was at an early stage and interruption of financing did have a significant impact; the Bank agreed to
resume funding the district in June 1995 based on a detailed Action Plan.



6
E. Bank Performance
17.   The Bank's overall performance was deficient, although a concerted effort has
been made since 1994 to take advantage of the new opportunities. This project is an
example of the consequences of "poor quality at entry." While Bank sector work on
irrigation addressed a full range of issues, the approach to the project was typical for
irrigation projects of this period which focused mainly on the engineering aspects and
physical investments, and paid limited attention to the agronomic, economic, institutional,
and social issues. Even then, the engineering aspects were not handled well. Contrary to
Bank norms, appraisal was done on the basis of recently completed feasibility studies and
design studies had not yet been contracted at the time of Board presentation; this resulted
in poor specification of the works to be done, cost estimates which turned out to be too
low, and a two year delay while the designs were being completed. This situation was
exacerbated by lack of technical support by the Bank at critical moments in the project's
development.
18.   It is striking that nearly all the critical issues and problems which arose during
implementation were foreseen by various experts during the project preparation and
review process, but credible solutions were not defined. The appraisal inadequately
gauged the lessons of the on-going Rehabilitation operation and Colombia's sectoral
experience (particularly with WUAs). Insufficient attention was devoted to the efficiency
of water use, intensification of production, and the strategy for linking infrastructure
rehabilitation with district transfers to the irrigators. There were failures to design
remedies for the farmers' credit shortages and other causes of weak incentives for on-farm
investment. Questionable judgments were made regarding the adequacy of irrigation
technology and the extension methodology. INAT's capacity was not adequately assessed,
particularly in procurement and non-engineering aspects of the project. These deficiencies
are distressing, given that Rehabilitation II was the Bank's fifth irrigation sector operation
in the country. More time should have been spent on additional project preparation and
greater effort devoted to shaping measures to cover the numerous risks.
19.   One of the weak aspects of project design which was not questioned within the
Bank was the fact that the Coello and Saldana districts which had been managed by
WUAs for nearly a decade were treated the same as the other districts managed by INAT.
If the two WUAs had been involved in project design and implementation, it is highly
likely that the project's performance would have been better (more than half of the project
funding for civil works and maintenance equipment was for these districts).
20.   Supervision was inadequate until the later years when it was too late to make up
for lost time. INAT had shown during the first project and preparation of the second that
it needed strong technical backstopping, yet only limited technical advice was offered by
the engineer supervising the project up to 1991, and no engineer participated in the
mid-term review or decision in mid-1993 to extend the closing date. Likewise, despite
pervasive problems, there is no record of a senior procurement expert participating in
supervision until 1995. The Bank did not monitor closely the key risk and when the mid-
term review recognized that the risk had materialized, no effective actions were taken.



7
21.   There were positive aspects of the Bank's work however. The diagnosis and
advice contained in the Bank's July 1988 irrigation sector report and the work on the PSR
project contributed to the Government's thinking about a new sector policy which led to
the pioneering irrigation law. Likewise, the PSR created momentum towards fuller cost
recovery and transfer of districts. In 1994, the Bank responded energetically to new
opportunities offered by the law, new leadership in INAT, and initiatives of farmers in the
Maria la Baja district. Intensive supervision with particular attention to procurement
matters led to a significant acceleration of project activities. Several innovative activities
were also supported, such as a study tour to Chile, development of an integrated Plan of
Action for the Maria la Baja district, and presentations on modern design of irrigation
infrastructure to INAT and the private sector.
F. Borrower Performance
22.   Both the Government (Guarantor) and INAT (Borrower) performed deficiently,
though in the later part of the project the Govemment adopted policy reforms and the new
law which may contribute to a favorable outcome. The Government failed to show a
strong commitment to the project, and oversight of INAT was weak and sporadic. The
project was badly weakened too by the Government's failure to keep in place a sufficiently
competent technical and managerial team in INAT, along with its frequent restructuring of
the agency from 1990-94. The project experienced significant delays caused by the
complex, inefficient budget process and the cumbersome procurement code. At critical
moments, the Government and INAT have given higher priority to financing new projects,
which apparently have higher political returns, than to completing and improving the
performance of the existing districts. In this regard, firm commitments to complete the
project made to the Bank at the time of extending the loan closing date are now in
question. In sum, there was a lack of strong political leadership in pursuit of project
objectives.
23.   INAT's performance was deficient which reflected in part broader management
problems within the institution aggravated by excessive turnover. It failed to maintain a
separate project unit with management authority, a key factor in the satisfactory
management of the first project. When it re-established a unit at the Bank's insistence in
1995, the unit was given a more limited coordinating role. Procurement and contracting
were particularly deficient; procurement planning was totally absent and resulted in costly
works being inoperable, because a critical link was missing. Audit reports criticized
INAT's poor supervision of contracts; problems arose of poor quality construction and
inadequate works supervision by contractors. INAT resisted implementing agreements
with the Bank to increase the role of WUAs in project implementation. While outside the
scope of the project's objectives, INAT also failed to follow through on recommendations
to give greater responsibility for project implementation to its Regional Offices, consistent
with the decentralized approach embodied in the Colombian Constitution and INAT's
revised statutes.
24.   On the other hand, INAT did take positive steps to: seek the opinion of the
appropriate legal authority on how it might transfer property rights to WUAs for the
districts built before 1994; improve its capacity in non-engineering aspects including



8
establishment of a new department; accelerate implementation and increase efforts to
achieve sector policy objectives after the second extension of the closing date; obtain
UNDP funds to support the WUAs in the Prado Sevilla district; and secure funds to
complete the contracts underway when the loan closed.
G. Assessment of Outcome
25.   The project attained several useful ends but its overall results were disappointing,
mainly because of the unfortunate combination of a narrow strategy and unrealistic
objectives. The project targets could not be achieved in the time allotted, even with a two
year extension of the closing date. However, achievements concerning sector policy,
though only partially attributable to the project, have been greater than expected and are
important for the long-term development of the sector. While full cost recovery has not
been achieved in all the districts, this is partly attributable to underlying problems which
have affected farmers capacity to pay. Concerning transfer of management, the outcome
is good, but more support is needed to help the WUAs to fully and effectively assume
their responsibilities. In sum, based on the project's current status and reasonable
estimates about future production which result in an estimated IRR of 7.8%, the project's
outcome is presently rated as deficient.
26.   However, it is too early to judge the ultimate development impact of the project.
If the civil works are satisfactorily completed, the project could in large measure yet fulfill
the objective of improving the retums from irrigation for both the state and farmers.
Depending on when this goal is accomplished, the IRR could rise from 7.8% to 15.5-
18.8% which is good compared to other irrigation projects financed by the Bank.5 The
impact of management by WUAs and effects of the changed economic incentives on
farmers will also be decisive factors.
H. Future Operation
27.   The second extension of the closing date was based on Govermment's commitment
to complete the project using its own funds (estimated US$34 million required) by the end
of 1997; an action plan and set of performance indicators for the full two and a half year
period were agreed between INAT and the Bank. However, in response to competing
investment priorities, INAT has now programmed completion of Rehabilitation II for the
year 2000. The Bank has sought clarification from the Govemment about when it plans to
complete the project. In addition, the Bank continues to work with INAT under Ln. 3113
to correct problems with the SSI projects financed by the loan. Currently, there are no
plans for a new lending operation, but support for strengthening the WUAs through an
Institutional Development Grant and an EDI seminar to review experience with irrigation
management transfer is planned.
The lower end of this range would equate the project's outcome to the average economic returns of over
two-thirds of the 192 irrigation projects rated "satisfactory" which were examined in OED's 1994
sector review (Report 13676).



9
L. Key Lessons Learned
28.   Some key lessons of the project related to its "quality at entry" are as follows:
(a)  it is better not to proceed with a lending operation until fundamental agreement
on strategy, objectives and key sector policies has been reached (para. 4, 6);
(b)  the scope and objectives of a follow-on project should be carefully calib,ated to
the capacity of the implementing agency as demonstrated in the project under
implementation (para. 3);
(c)  project risks identified at appraisal should be closely monitored and credible
solutions found if the risk does materialize (para. 11, 20);
(d)  to be successful, irrigation and drainage projects must pay attention to
agronomic, economic, institutional and social issues in addition to engineering
(para. 18);
(e)  an engineering-minded irrigation agency with a narrow mandate and limited
experience in agricultural matters is unlikely to have sufficient interest and
capacity to ertsure that on-farm development activities are adequately carried-out
(para. 11);
(f)  the experience in Colombia has shown that WUA management can be an
important contributor to improved cost recovery and maintenance; the logic that
rehabilitation of irrigation works is a prerequisite to full cost recovery and
transfer of management to WUAs was flawed (para. 13);
(g)  greater involvement of WUAs and the irrigation agency's regional offices in the
design and implementation of the project would have improved implementation
(para. 19); and
(h)  low recovery of O&M costs is not necessarily a result of fanners unwillingness
to pay or the irrigation agency's poor capacity as a bill-collector, but may stem
from long-standing socio-economic problems which a good social assessment
during preparation would have uncovered (para 13).



10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of          Substantial              Partial               Negligible           Not Applicable
objectives
Cv')                   Cv')                   Cv')                   C')
Macro policies                     Oi                    L                       Li
Sector policies                     ii O                                                                Li
Financial objectives               Oi                                            Li                     Li
Institutional development          n                     [                       o                      [
Physical objectives               Li
Poverty reduction                 El                      O[" ii
Gender issues                      °i                    Li                      Li
Other social objectives            °i                                            E l°
Environmental objectives                                 E L                                            LO
Public sector management           °                       i                     LiE
Private sector developmnt         Li                      a                      oi
Other (specify)                   °i                      °i                     °                       V
B. Project sustainability                 Likely                      Unlikely                    Uncertain
Cv')                        Cv')                         C')
C. Bank performance                 Highly satisfactory             Satisfactory                  Deficient
Cv')                        (v')                         Cv')
Identification                             L                                                         Li
Preparation assistance                     L                            Li
Appraisal                                  Li                           Li
Supervision                                L                            Li1
D. Borrower Performance              Highly satisfactorv            Satisfactorv                  Deficient
Cv')                         Cv')                        C')
Preparation                                 L                           Li
Inplementation                             Li                           Li
Covenant compliance                        Li                           Li
Operation (if applicable)                  Li                           Li
E. Assessment of outcome   Highly satisfactorv        Satisfactorv            Deficient         Highly unsatisfactory
El                    El                                             L



11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits'
Loan/credit Title           Purpose            Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
Ln. 1996-CO             Irrigation                   1981               Completed. PCR
Rehabilitation I                                issued April 1990
Following operations
Ln. 3113-CO             Small-Scale Irrigation       1989               Active
1. Includes projects in the same subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related objectives. A limit of 10 years is
observed when listing preceeding operations.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned"            Date Actual/
l______________________________________________________________ I         Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                           June 1984
Preparation                                                          October 1984
Appraisal                                       March 1985           June 1985
Negotiations                                    February 1986        February 1986
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)    n/a                  n/a
Board Presentation                              April 1986           March 25, 1986
Signing                                         May 27, 1986         May 27, 1986
Effectiveness                                   August 26, 1986      February 24, 1987
First Tranche Release (if applicable)           n/a                  n/a
Midterm review (if applicable)                                       December 1991
Project Completion                              December 31,         December 31, 1995
1993
Loan Closing                                    June 30, 1994        June 30, 1996
1. As indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY87  FY88   FY89   FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97
Appraisal Estimate           5.7    13.7   31.9   53.6    75.2   92.3    103.7  114.0   -             -       -
Actual                       3.0     6.6   25.1    33.6    46.0   54.8        61.7   68.9  75.2   90.8    97.1
Actual as % of Estimate      53      48      79      63       61      59       59      60     66      80       85
Date of Final Disbursement: 11/14/96"
"US$ 16.9 m. cancelled as of November 14, 1996.



13
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Key indicators                            Estimated                  Actual
I. In SAR Report
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Prado de Sevilla District
Rehabilitation of 9 Intakes                                 9 units                  7 units
Construction of 9 sedimentation reservoirs                  9 units                  7 units
Extension & repair of the irrigation system                330 km                    63 km
Drainage network                                           285 km                    65 km
Flood protection dikes                                      12 km                    2.5 km
Roads along major canals                                    12 km                    20 km
Rehabilitation of administration center                     I unit                   1 unit
2. Abrego District
Lining of existing canal R. Frio and secondary canals       10 km                    10 km
New secondary canals (drainage)                              6 km                     6 km
Two small secondary pumping stations w/power                2 units                  2 units
3. Saldahla District
Diversion weir across the Rio Saldafila                     I unit                   I unit
Sedimentation reservoir in the main canal                   I unit                   I unit
River protection on the right bank of the Rio Saldafha       5 km                     5 km
Repair of main intake gates                                 I unit                   I unit
Widening of canal Animas                                    17 km                    17 km
Main drains                                                 155 km                   19 km
River protection dikes along the Rio Chenche                26 km                     I km
Widening of the Carmen and Holanda canals                   4 km                     1.9 km
Construction of two pumping stations, CRB I & CRB2          2 units                    0
13 km of power line connection                              13 km                      0
Control structures in the main canal network                I unit                   I unit
4. Coello District
A fusable intake on the river Cucuana                       I unit                   I unit
Tunnel behind the intake                                   1,800 mts                1,800 mts
A sediment reservoir                                        I unit                   I unit
New canal Cucuana with structures                           33 km                    25 km
A new canal distribution system in the Flandes extension    30 km                    10 km
Erosion protection at Los Pijaos                             3 km                     3 km
Control structures in the canal network                    50 units                 30 units
A system of teleinformatiomn on water levels                I unit                     0
A linear move sprinkler installation                        I unit                     0
5. Maria La Baja District
Electification and repair of gates in existing intake towers  2 units                2 units
Control structures in the canal network                    40 units                    0
A dam at Corral-Matuya                                      I unit                     0
Canals and drains in the district extensions               745 km                   247 km
6. La Doctrina District (some works for shrimp prod.)
Rehabilitation of the freshwater interceptor canal            I                        0
A mixing canal                                                I                        0
A seawater canal                                              I                        0
A pumping station with its power connection                   I
Distribution canals                                          8 km                    8 km
Dikes and drains forming shrimp farming ponds
Protection of the Sinu river banks                           5 km                     5 km
Secondary irrigation canals                                 23 km                    23 km
7. Small-Scale Irrigation & Armero Disaster Area
New small irrigation schemes developed                     7,800 ha                 13,400 ha
Repairs of existing works Armero                           6,000 ha                 5,000 ha
Construction of new district Armero                        8,000 ha                    0



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
(continuation)
Key indicators                           Estimated                  Actual
I. In SAR
B. O&M AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
1. Prado de Sevilla District
O&M cost recovery                                           100%                    60%
Cropping intensity                                          72%                      75%
Incremental productive area                               8,150 ha                 4,000 ha
Incremental harvested area                                8,900 ha                 4,500 ha
Farn income increases                                     >100 %                     30%
2. Abrego District
O&M cost recovery                                           100%                     50%
Cropping intensity                                          104%                    108%
Incremental productive area                                750 ha                   500 ha
Incremental harvested area                                 830 ha                   550 ha
Farm income increases                                      300%                       0
3. Saldaila District
O&M cost recovery                                           100%                    100%
Cropping intensity                                         169%                     165%
Incremental productive area                               5,300 ha                 1,000 ha
Incremental harvested area                                10,600 ha                2,000 ha
Farm income increases                                       100%                      0
4. Coello District
O&M cost recovery                                          100%                     100%
Cropping intensity                                          167%                    170%
Incremental productive area                               6,570 ha                    0
Incremental harvested area                                14,610 ha                   0
Farm income increases                                       50%                       0
5. Maria La Baja District
O&M cost recovery                                          100%                      17%
Cropping intensity                                          91%                     90%
Incremental productive area                               4,000 ha                    0
Incremental harvested area                                5,400 ha                    0
Farm income increases                                      300%                       0
6. La Doctrina District
O&M cost recovery                                          100%                     35%
Cropping intensity                                         101%                     110%
Incremental productive area                                940 ha                  940 ha
Incremental harvested area                                1,240 ha                 1,240 ha
Farm income increases                                      300%                     50%
7. Total 6 Districts
Cropping intensity                                         116%
Incremental productive area                               25,010 ha                6,440 ha
Incremental harvested area                                41,570 ha                8,290 ha
Agricultural production increases                           100%
Summary of status and results: The civil works were completed in the two smallest districts. 70-80% of
major civil works were completed in the three largest districts leaving unfinished the work on secondary
and tertiary canals. In the Maria la Baja district, only 20% of works were completed, due partly to the
suspension of disbursements between 1992-1995. The appraisal report showed increased production was to
come from converting fallow/extensive livestock areas to irrigated crops and increasing the cropping intensity
of existing irrigated lands. Prado Sevilla was the only district where yields were expected to increase.
Overall, the expected changes did not take place except in Prado Sevilla where yields, income and intensity all
exceeded SAR estimates.



15
Table 6: Key Modified Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
II. Modified Indicators -(June 195)                  Target for         As of September
31/12/97                1996
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Prado de Sevilla District
Rehabilitation of 7 intakes                           7 units               7 units
Rehabilitation & construction of irrigation systems  330 km                 63 km
Rehabilitation & construction of drainage network    286 km                 65 km
Flood protection dikes                                12 km                 2.5 km
Additional area with infrastructure                  17,400 ha             14,000 ha
Total area with irrigation infrastructure           33,400 ha              30,000 ha
3. Saldafia District
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                   35 km                 30 km
Rehabilitation & construction of drainage network     155 km                 19 km
Diversion weir across Rio Saldafla                     I unit                I unit
River protection dikes along the Rio Chenche          26 km                  13 km
Additional area with infrastructure                  4,500 ha               1,000 ha
Total area with irrigation infrastructure            18,300 ha             14,800 ha
4. Coello District
Intake on the river Cucuana                           I unit                 I unit
Sediment reservoir                                    1 unit                 I unit
New canal Cucuana with structures                     31 km                 25 km
Canal distribution system                             30 km                 10 km
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                   190 km                30 km
Expansion of irrigation system                        50 km                    0
Expansion of drainage network                        209 km                    0
Additional area with infrastructure                  12,000 ha                 0
Total area with irrigation infrastructure           37,000 ha              25,000 ha
5. Maria La Baja District
Dam at Arroyo Corral                                  I unit                   0
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                   25 km                 20 km
Rehabilitation & construction of drainage network     189 km                155 km
Expansion of irrigation system                        150 km                  0
Additional area with infrastructure                  4,600 ha.                0
Total area with irrigation infrastructure            11,100 ha             6,500 ha



16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study              at Appraisal/Redefined                 Status              Impact of Study
Design of a computerized    System to enable INAT to better   Completed               Contributed to significant
integrated financial,       plan and manage its portfolio, to                         improvements in financial
accounting and control      monitor financial aspects, and to                         management, cited in audit
information system.         set appropriate controls.                                 reports, and better
knowledge of costs.
Expert Panel to review      Technical analysis of two      Completed                  Opinion of experts
alternative designs for Corral-  designs, their soundness,                            validated the Compact
Matuya dam, Maria la Baja    ecological and safety aspects,                           Concrete Gravity design;
costs, advantages/disadvantages                           dam had not yet been
of each alternative.                                      constructed as of loan
closing.
Socio-cultural study of three    Analysis of socio-economic and    Completed          Showed that low cost
districts                   cultural aspects contributing to                          recovery was not a simple
low cost recovery in Maria la                             problem of farmers not
Baja, La Doctrina and Abrego                              wanting to pay or the
districts.                                                irrigation agency being a
poor bill collector.
Contributed to Bank's
decision to resume
activities in the Maria la
Baja district.
Marketing study for small   Recommend measures to          Completed                  Insignificant.
irrigation projects        improve marketing possibilities
for products from small irrigation
projects, including identification
of crops.
Cost Recovery and Valuation   To establish criteria and    Completed                  Studies on O&M had
Studies                     guidelines, within the national                           positive impact, providing
legal framework, for the                                  more accurate estimate of
collection of payments or                                 costs. Valuation studies for
reimbursements of investments                             recovery of investment
made, or to be made, on                                   costs in districts
equipment and works in the                                rehabilitated by first project
irrigation districts under the                           had little impact due to lack
Project. This included valuation                          of political will to apply the
of the equipment and                                      policy.
infrastructure.



ICR-8A.XLS
Tabb OA: Project Coats
dioseaid Us$
SAR      Final                                        Actual Costs                                                 TOTAL        % against
Category                 Entimate   Design    1987     1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995      1998    COSTS      SAR      Design
ILCIViL WORKS
1    Coolb            568,071    45.894    534      1.609'   1,131     4,601     9,768    3,774     6,347     5,280    11,013    2,764    46.811     83%      102%
2    Prado de Sevila    44,340   79.948    930       693      1,649    3,902     2.699     2,907    2,946     3.915    14,216    2,304    36,161     82%       45%
3    Saidela          30,831    17.180     403      1,193     1,019    4,162     2,174     1SO       489       601      2,499     280      13.010    42%       76%
4    Mada la baja     23,191    30.641    1,694     1,149     656       607       880      142        18                1,211    1,094     7,351     32%       24%
6    La Doctrina       6.144     3.245     151       265      182      1.774     1.194     942                                             4,498     73%       139%
6    Abrego             534      534       87        183      123        94       17                                                        504      94%       94%
Subtotal    161,117   177,440   3,770    6,082      4,760    15,140    16,722    7,915    *800      9,756    28,3°    8,442    108,336    67%       61%
II. EQUIPMENT
1    Coeiib            4.166                        1.032    1.921      124                                                                3,077     74%
2    PradodeSeaUwW     3.352                        1,535     1.713     104        1                                     26                3,379     101%
3    SaldsAa           2,989                        1,034     1.473     44         1                                                       2.552     86%
4    Mae lo Baal       2,473                        1,184     1,340     41         6                                                       2,651     103%
5    La Doctrine        918                          193      811       52        658                                                      1,714     187%
6    Abrego             781                          184      339        10                                                                 633      68%
7    Repalon                                         266      1.089                                                                        1,364
8    Oflclna Central                                 41        95       40        22        10       SO                  17       201       476
Subtotl     114,879                       6,448      ,781    415       686       10        SO        0        43       201      15,636    107%       
Ill. TRAININO & TA
1    Coeli             1.305               110       34       133       63        126       65       39                                     589      45%
2    Prede de eSwia     821                          25       432       239       171       1        65        52        43       86       1,114     136%
3    SaldeAde           406                110       10        60        15       44        14       S5                                     306      76%
4    Mede a Baja        386                          10        36        32                 7                           434       84        603      157%
5    La Doctrine        662                                              1         2        1                                                4        1 %
6    Abrego             36                                     12        14                          86        48                 224       384     1067%
a    Oficina Centra
Subtotal     3.614               220       79        6        384       342       -        245       100       477      304    32002 
IV. STUDIES & SUPERVISION
I    Collo             8.411                         996      628       597       776      403       837       719      951      1.137     7.043     84%
2    Prado de Sewia    8,662                                  1,368     342       315      272       626       644      1,567     837      6,881     88%
3    SGldelia          4,626               721       681      151       138       14        47       84        332      207                2,275     49%
4    Meds. Bjale       3,479                17       65        29        31       132      221                           78       400      983       28%
6    LaDoctrins         922                           4        40       117       124      128                                             413       46%
7    Grenja PUoto                                    368       45        2                                                                 415
8    Pequ As Ikrgclon   2.531                                  41       49        16        49                                             155       6%
Subtotal     24,087              738      2.004     2.302    1,276     1.376     1.120    1,647     1,596    2,793    2,374    17,125      71%
V. EROSION CONTROL         3,111                         222      707       696       127      162       191                306       192      2.603     84%
VI. ARMERO                30,000                         43       198                                                                          241       1%
VII. SMAL SCALE IRRIGATION  16.876             319      2,714    7,342     1,819     816       248       396      316       126               14,095     84%
TOTAL COSTS               253,483             5,066    16,692    24,763   19,730    20,071    9.543    12,228    11,767   32,684    9,803    161.037    84%
Pe" I



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local       Foreign        Total         Local         Foreign         Total
Source            Costs         Costs                       Costs          Costs
IBRD                       -           114.0         114.0                         97.1           97.1
Government                59.9           -            59.9          44.4            -             44.4
Subtotal     59.9          114.0         173.9         44.4           97.1           141.5
34%          66%           100%          31%            69%            100%
Banking System            54.1           -            54.1
Beneficiaries             29.5           -            29.5
TOTAL        143.5         114.0         257.5
56%          44%           100%
No infornation is available on the arnount of financing by the banking sector and beneficiaries.



19
TABLE 9 A: INVESTMENT COSTS (In economic pices)
on 19i  wd  OoOUSS)
1987   1983    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993   1994   1995   1996 TOTAL
PER DISTRICT
Prado do Sevila      930   3754   4274   4743    3168    3282    3656   4511   15842   3227  47367
Abrego                87    367      524     118      17      81     109      48      50    288    1689
MarialaBaja        1611   2378   2266    711    1127         370      18       0   1792   1578  11851
La Doctrina          151    452    1033    1944    1978    1071                                     6629
Saldaffa             593   2958    3377   4332    2375       178     889    645   2B73    551   18571
Coello              644   3761    3882    5405   10658   4242   7274   5999  11970   3901   57736
Total 6 Districts            4016  13670   15356  17253   19323    9204  1174B   11203  32527   9545  143843
PER CATEGORY
CMI Works           3779   4715   4674   14546   16706   7869    9799   9756  28941    6378  107163
Machinery & Equipment            5142   7597      375     686                              26           13806
StLcdies&WorksSupervsio       17   3512    1705    1252    1482    1085    1511    1347   2917   2581   17409
Training & Technical Assist    220   79    673      384     342      88     245     100    477    394   3002
Erosion Control               222    707       696     127     162     191             166    192   2463
Total Categories             4016  13670  15358   17253   19323    9204   1174_   11203  32527   9545 143843
TABLE 9 B: IRRIGATED AREAS
(in OWNl)
1987   1988    1989    1990: I 99f     M        1993    1994   1995   1996 TOTAL
PER DISTRICT
Prado de Seviua     18.3   16.9    16.5       20    20.6    20.1    21.7   24.3   26.4   26.4   49%
Abrego               0.8    0.8      0.7     0.7     0.7      0.6     0.8    0.6    0.8    0.8    -4%1
Maria la Baja        6.5    4.5      6.7     7.5     7.1     6.7      6.5    8.5    3.5    3.7  -23%
La Docina            0.9    1.1      1.2       1     0.2     0.2      0.8    1.4    1.4    1.4    31%
SaldaIa             21.9   20.8    20.9    21.5    13.2    20.7    22.9   21.9   21.2         22     2%
Coello              29.3      34    34.3    36.1    36.2      29    30.5   23.6   24.2   32.3  -18%
Total 6 Districts             77.7   78.1    80.3    86.8       78    77.3      53    78.3   77.5   88.6    3%
11 1994-96 average dided by 1987-89 average
TABLE 9 C: PRODUCTION IMPACT (TIRE, VAN and Incremental Production Value In economic prices)
(in 196cau9t  man USSO
.T. uE  UAU       Y       19.    199t    1992    1993    1       1995    1996    2000
%    mIllonUSS
PER DISTRICT                                  I
Prado de Sevifla    23%     14.2    !        2.6     2.8       5      7.5    9.6      13      20      21
Abrego             -12%     -0.7    1        0.1      0.1     0.2     0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3        0.3
Maria la Baja        7%     -2.1    !        0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.2    0.2     0.3      1.8
La Doctjina         -6%    -2.9    1                                          0.1    0.1    0.1       0.1
Saldafla 1/          3%     -5.6    1                                -9.7    0.5    0.5       0.5     3.4
Coello             -11%    -19.1    I                 1.1             0.5     0.2    0.4      0.6     0.6
Total 6 Districts              8%    -16.2    !        2.8     4.1      5.3    -1.4   10.9   14.5   21.8    27.2
I/ In the second senester od 1993 no inigation was done because of Uth projeas cons_nacion works
Page 1



TABLE 9 D: ECONO>MIC BUDGET
(In US$ Million)
|ECONOMIC BUDGET (AGGREGA                                              vAhu Pf s     ro*j1ctW0                                                                  Increments              b       1       5     2 
Main Production
Banano                                  38.5   S5.8   a3.e   e4.0   8s.e   87.5  S9.6  121.S  117.4  108.4    90.3                                       23    2Z3    4.1    5.8    5e    15.5   12S    129
Platano                                  1.1    0.7    0 7    0oe     0.s    0.4    o.1    0.1    0.1    0.1        0.1      *       -    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    QO0    0.0
Platano                                  4.5    2.1    2.s    1.3    3.1   2ze       3.0    1.1    1.3    1.S       I's      *       -                . 4.0    0.0    0.0        *   4.2    0.4    1.4    1A4
Citrus Fruib                             oe     1  1.1   S    1.5    1.S    1.7    2.1    1.4    zs5    4.1    8.2           *                           0  .1    0.1    0.2    0.2    1.2    1.7    is    2.8
Cocoa                                    1.8   t.S    1.0    o.r    0.2    0.1    o.o    o.o    o.o    o.o          o.o      *                            .o      .      .o    o.o    o.o    o.o    o.o    o.o
Papaya                                    .                                          0    .1    0.1    0.1    o.1    o02     *              .      .       *             1    -.1    4.1   40.1    0.1    a.1
Other FnJuts                             0.9    1.3    1.3    1.0    QO       0.4    0.8    1.4    3.0   2z9        4.2      *                                  0  .o    0.3    o.s    1.0    1.2    1.5    1.5
Maize                                   0.5    0 5    ns5    04    0.s    0.3   0ar    o.r    0.4    0.1            0.5      *                                                                0       .o    0.2    0.2
Sorgum                                   48      7    8r .3    0.3    4,0    2.0    5.9    2.1    2.1    6 9        5.0      -                                                 0     .o
Arroz                                   n1.    $.2   oe8.3   83.4   5s4    52.0   eo.2   56.4   es.6   71.1    er.7          *-A                  0.2   -S.5    0.1    o.6    i.3    1.2    1.       5 .o    5.0
Soyabeans                                  .    0.4    1.1   3a9      1.S    0.6    ar7   1.1    2.e    1.7         1.7                - 0.1   -1.3    1.1   -0.2    0.1   .0.1         -      .1
Beans                                    0.4    o 5    o.7    Q5    O's    0.3    0.3    o.s        Q  0.4    0.4  *A               *   40    4.10           . 4.0    o.o    o.o    o.o    o.o    o.o    o.0
Cotton                                 Ino    1r.1   1e.0   14.4   1e.s    s.4    3.4    3.7    1t    e.8          e.        -      *       .                               . o.o    4.0
PalmOil                                 1e.9   2s.2   2e.1   1S. 0 .0 IZO   1r   20.e   22.2   30.1   35.e    sz5            *0 -                  *      2    o.s    o.e    1.1    1.S       28    X5    15
Onion                                   8.s    e.4    3.2    1.3    1.S    i.4    1.S    1.1    2.3    2.e          2.1      *                            .1    o.1    0.1    0.1    Q.1    0.2    Q.1    Ml 
Tromatoo                                 Zs    1.3    1.       0.9    0.5    0.2    0.s    0.2    0.7    Qs8    o.e          *                                            *      *      *       *    Q       0.1o
Meat & Mflk                              2.r    Ze  2s 2.       e 2.6  25    i       2.5    2.s    2.1     1 e      1.4                - -  .     .1   -0.1   -0.1   -0.2   .0.2   4.S    44    40.s   o.0
Sub-total Main Produdthn                17S.2   MA1.   215.4  2025  1S1.2  1e0.8  2027  216.0  23s.0  244.3   223.e            -           4.1   .1.1   46.s    2.8    s.9    &s.    1as   2s.2   2e.2   20.2
Pmoduction Codt
Investment
Project Invesbnent Costs*                       *       *      --                    **                    -        -            4.0   1S.    15.4   i7.3   10.3    9.2   11.7   11.2  s3 5
Operating
Agricultural Costs Prado SevtiNa      48.2   41.2   4e.4   54.2   84.1   eSZ    r0:1   81.1   eo.7   u4.0    e7.2          .       .      .      .0    1.3    1.5    2.e    3.8    4.S   1Qe8  11.2   11.2
Agricullural Costs Abrego              s.s    3.4    12      13      V.     1J    1.9    22       3.9    s.4      s.5      *                            .1    o.o    o.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.4    0.4
Agricultural Costs Maria la Baja       1.5    1.S    1.1    i.2    1.0    1.0    i.1    1.1    1.1    1.2         1.2      .       -                                                                0.4    0.4
Agricultural Costs La Doctriha         o.o    o.o    oo0    o.o    oo0    oo0    .1    Q1    0at    01            0.1      *                                            .o    o.o    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Agricultural Costs Saldana Coell   401    s3.4   40.2  4u.3   3r.e   35.0   ass    2s.8   324    380    4 2.5              -                      . *.s         -                                    1     2.1
Sub-total Oprerating Costs             S3S3   7ss5   eos  103.0  104.3  101.0  10ee0  i14.1  11a.1  i24.7   134.5            *      *       .     .o    -.2    1.5    17    s.s    4.8   11.0   14.2   14.2
Sub-Total Production Cost                 3s3   7S.5   0099   103.0  104.S  101.0  10se6  114.1  116.1  124.7   134.5          -    3s1    10.9   12Z2    7.0   1e.4    s.8   13.0   13.2   3e.0   i4.2   14.2
OUTFLOWS                               s3.3   7S.5  a094  1030   104.3  101.0  to3e0  114.1  t18.1  124.7   134.5            *    3s1    10.9   12.2    7.0   18.4    9.8   13.0   13.2   se.0   14.2   14.2
Cash Flow                                 s5.9  111.A  125.5  S9.5    e.0  rs.8  04.0  103.0  tt9.8  11s.e    s.s                -3.1   -11.1  -13.4  -129   .13.8   43.    .45    47   .1Z8   1Z0   1ZO
IRR a 7.8%, NPV a -16.2Z2~
It works are finished by end of 1998, overall   IRR * 18J%, NPV - USS55 mOion
It works are finished by end of 2000, overall   IRR * 15.6%, NPV a USS27 mililon
Economic Results of marginal Investments    IRR a 4611%                  NPV o USS59 mdililon
FPt



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised        Description of           Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment      covenant
date       date
Loan        2.02(b)     I        C                             Borrower shall open a
Agreement                                                      Special Account.
3.01(b)     10       C                            Borrower shall enter into
contractual arrangements
with private crop
federations, individuals,
and with SENA and ICA.
3.01(c)     10       CD                           For purposes of Part E of
the project, the Borrower
shall enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank with
INDERENA and the
"Corporaciones
Autonomas Regionales de
Desarrollo".
3.03        1        CD    2/24/87    2/24/87 and  Borrower to open a Project
and       9/27/87      Account in pesos. Initial
6/30/87                Deposit of no less than the
equivalent of US$1.2 m.
By June 30, 1987, an
additional amount of no
less than the equivalent of
US$2.8 should be
deposited into the account.
3.04        5        CP       -           -       Borrower shall maintain a  Not fully complied with
Unit to supervise project.  until end of the project.
Up to then, handled by
the Planning Director.
3.05        10       CD       -           -       Expert panel to review
design of Corral-Matuya
dam and inspect during
construction.
3.06(a)     9        C        -                   Progress reports to be
and (b)                                           submitted by end June
each year, including cost
recovery.
4.04        10       CD   6/30/87    April 1988   Plan of action for transfer  Several plans developed
of management to users   over life of project.
associations.
5.01        1        CD       -           -       Borrower to submit annual
audit reports.



22
5.02         2         CP         -            -        Recovery of O&M costs in Targets formally revised
accordance with          twice. Considerable
percentage negotiated with progress made on O&M.
Bank; full recovery       Recovery investment costs
investment costs subject to not initiated since works
ability to pay.           not yet completed.
Schedule     3          -        -            -         Disbursement condition    Dropped from project.
1, 3(b)                                                for new irrigation Armero
Region.
Schedule     3          -        -            -         Disbursement condition    Dropped from project
1, 3(c)                                                for shrimp farming
Schedule     3          C        -            -         Disbursement condition
1, 3(d)                                                for Coello district
requiring Borrower to
enter into technical
assistance contract for
production of cotton.
Schedule     3          C        -            -         Disbursement condition
1, 3(e)                                                for Prado de Sevilla
district requiring Borrower
to enter into technical
assistance contract for
production of African
Palm.
Covenant types:
1. =  Account/Audits                                    8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                   10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                      allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                 regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title      |Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OMS 2.25 - Cost recovery policy          Borrower to gradually introduce water charges
in all districts to recover O&M costs and
eventually part of investment costs from
farmers. Partial compliance with O&M due to
underlying problems such as high debt and low
profitability in several districts. Major
improvements made. Civil works not yet
completed, so in most districts recovery of
investment costs not yet an issue.
OD 4.00 - Environmental policies         Watersheds badly eroded would be treated and
environmentally-sound practices to be observed
in farming and civil works. Partial compliance.
Anti-erosion works and reforestation contracted;
sedimentation and erosion not diminished but
are largely contained. Environmental
assessment done for large civil works in accord
with Colombian law. Management of pesticides
still poses problems, but the project itself did not
worsen this problem.
OP 8.40 - Technical Assistance           To improve production of identified crops and
promote efficient use of water resources. Partial
compliance. Promotion of better techniques
and practices not done effectively and did not
reach expected number of farmers.



24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle        Planned        Revised          Actual
Weeks  US$   Weeks  US$  Weeks US$"
Preparation to Appraisal             -     -       -       -   116.7  396.8
Appraisal                            -     -       -       -    41.2  140.0
Negotiations through Board Approval  -     -       -       -    10.0   34.0
Supervision                          -     -       -       -   191.3  650.4
Completion                        12.0     -    12.0             12.0   40.8
TOTAL                                                           371.2   1262.00
1/ Assume US$3,400 per staffweek



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                     Specialized      Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of         Month/         of        Days in        Staff Skills      tation           ment         Types of
Project Cyde         Year      Persons        Field       Represented         Status        Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal
Prepartion             3/83        1           3             N
Preparation            3/84        4           25            A,E,N
Preparation            10/84       4           25            A,EN N
Preparation            12/84       2           5             E, N
Preparation            2185        5           20            A, N, E
Pre-appraisal          4/85        3           18            A, N, E
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Appraisal              4/85        3           18            A,N,E
Appraisal              6/85        2           25            N,A                     -               -A
Supervision 1          10/86       2           5             E, N,                   2
2                      4/87        3           10            E, N, A                 I              I
3                      11/87       I           5             I                       _
4                       12/87      1           12            N                       I               I                  -
5                      7/88        1           10            N                       2              2                   1
6                      11/88       1           10            N                       2               1                 1, 2
7                      6189        2           14            N, A                    2              1                   1
8                      12/89       1           10            N                      2               1                  1,2
9                      8/90        2           10 and 5      N, A                    2              1                   1
10                     4/90        2           5             N, F                   2               I                   I
11                     6/90        1           1             P'                                                         -
12                     1/91        2           5             N, E                   2               2                  1, 3
13                     6/91        2           5             N, A                   2               3                  1, 3
14                     11/91       3          4              E, F                   3               3                  1,3
15                     5/92        1           5             F                      3               3                  1,3
16                     6/92        1           5             0                      3               3                  1,3
17                     10/92       1           3             F                                      -                   -
18                     1/93        1           3             F                                      -                   -
19                     9/93        1           5             F                      2               2                   3
20                     2/94        5           10            E, A, N, F              2              2                   -
21                     9/94        1           10            N                                      -                   -
22                     2/95        3           5             E,N,F
23                     5/95        3           6             E,N
24                     11/95       2           6             E,N                    U               S                   -
25                     4/96        3           6             E, N, W                U               S                   -
Completion             8/96        2           15            N, E
___________________    9/96       1            6             E
Skills Represented:                                                          Types of Problems
E = Economist                                                                I = Financial
N = Engineer                                                                 2 = Managerial/Administrative
A = Agronomist                                                               3 = Institutional/Governmental
I = Institutional Development Specialist
F = Financial Analyst
P = Procurement Analyst
0 = Operations Analyst
W = Water Institutional Development Specialist



26
APPENDIX A
Translated from Original Spanish Version
COLOMBIA
AIDE MEMOIRE-WORLD BANK MISSION
TO PREPARE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REHABILITATION II (Loan 2667-CO)
August 19-September 13, 1996
I. Introduction
A World Bank mission including Messrs. Antonio Vaccari and Juan Morelli
visited Colombia to initiate the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the project. The purpose of the ICR is to provide the Bank and the Government
with the following: (i) an estimate of the progress made by the project relative to its
objectives, (ii) an analysis of the plan for the project's future operation and assessment of
its sustainability, (iii) an evaluation of the project's impact, (iv) identification and
analysis of the differences between expected artual impact, and (v) lessons leamed from
the experience that would improve future project design and execution. The mission
worked together with officials from the Instituto Nacional de Adecuaci6n de Tierras
(INAT) and visited the Maria La Baja (Bolivar Region), Coello and Saldana irrigation
districts.
This Aide Memoire summarizes the main conclusions of the mission, particularly
those related to the economic impact of the project under various scenarios conceming
the completion date for the remaining civil works. The mission would like to thank the
Government and INAT for their cooperation and active participation in the work.
II. Implementation Completion Report
1. Project Objectives and Components
The project's objectives were to increase the benefits resulting from public
investment in irrigation and drainage, improve the efficiency and effectiveness of INAT
(as the agency in charge of irrigation and drainage development) and to strengthen the
Water User Associations (WUA) so that they could assume responsibility for
administration of the districts while ensuring full recovery of operation and maintenance
costs (O&M) of the irrigation systems. The project came under the Government's sector
strategy to give priority to rehabilitation and completion of existing irrigation districts
and support for new small-scale irrigation projects, over investment in new, large-scale
projects; thus, the objective was to maximize benefits from investments already made and
to improve the collection of O&M funds for the already existing systems. At appraisal,



27
the expected Internal Rate of Return (economic) was 28%, ranging between 14 and 40%
for the six districts to be rehabilitated and estimated at 20% for the small-scale irrigation
component.
The loan which was declared effective in February 1987 was to be implemented
over a 7-year period and completed by June 30, 1994. Costs were estimated at US$257.5
million; US$114 million from the loan (44%), US$59.9 million (23%) from the
Government, US$54.1 million (21%) from the Colombian banking system, and US$29.5
million (12%) from beneficiaries. The major risk identified at the time of appraisal was
the possible slow adoption of technological change by farmers; this risk was to be
reduced through farmer's access to technical assistance/extension services, training and
credit.
2. Implementation and Results
(a) Implementation pace. The initial pace of implementation was slower than
foreseen due to delays in completing designs for the larger civil works. In 1993, project
implementation improved and, in parallel, the Government adopted a new policy and
institutional framework (Law 41) which were favorable to the project. This contributed
to the Bank's decision to extend the loan closing date, first to 6/30/95, and later to
6/30/96. At the time, it was thought that the main obstacles that had resulted in poor
progress in implementation (slow preparation of final designs of works and lack of
counterpart funding) had been overcome.
In September 1994, INAT and a Bank supervision mission agreed on a work
program, covering the period up to end-1997, for completion of the works included under
the project for the districts of Saldana, Coello, Prado Sevilla y Maria La Baja; in addition,
it also agreed that INAT would prepare a detailed plan of action for the Maria la Baja
district and a set of performance monitoring indicators. Based on this and the
Government's commitment to provide the estimated US$34 million (in addition to
counterpart funds) needed to complete the work program by end- 1997, the second
extension of the closing date was granted. However, progress in 1995 and 1996
continued to be slow; old problems seemed to reappear. The Government, nevertheless,
reiterated in 1996 its commitment to provide the necessary funds to complete the project.
(b) Design and rehabilitation of the six districts. Designs for the large civil
works were ready two years after the beginning of project implementation. In 1994 and
1995 execution picked-up; construction work was completed in the Abrego and La
Doctrina districts. However, only 70-80% of major infrastructure and drainage works
(flood protection dikes, sediment reservoir, main canals, etc.) were constructed in Coello,
Saldana and Prado de Sevilla, while infrastructure rehabilitation and drainage works were
left mostly unfinished. Completion of works in the Maria La Baja district was less than
20% of what was anticipated. Low utilization of the works already completed is also a
problem.



28
(c) Dissemination of production technologies. INAT carried out the technical
assistance program in a partial and discontinuous manner. The objective was to improve
production technology and to demonstrate the advantages offered by supplementary
irrigation for new crops (in addition to the predominant ones, rice and bananas), and to
promote increased use of irrigated areas. The technical assistance provided, however, did
not bring about any noticeable technological advance or crop diversification.
(d) O&M Cost Recovery. Cost recovery improved somewhat, but has not
reached the targets, partly due to the low usage of the irrigation systems in relation to
their potential. There are still serious problems to achieving financial self-sufficiency in
the irrigation districts recently transferred to WUA management. The problem is more
serious in some cases (Maria La Baja) where the old and disputed debts of water users to
INAT continue to be carried over making it difficult to recover any O&M costs.
(e) Impact on production. With the exception of Prado Sevilla, the irrigated
area continues to be the same in the districts, with fluctuations resulting from variations
in climatic conditions and prices. Productivity per hectare or per unit of water continues
to show the same levels as before the project. Crop diversification has not taken place on
a significant scale, though the prospects of this are good in the Maria la Baja district.
3. Factors Affecting Project Implementation
The persistence of distorted internal prices provided a disincentive to farmers to
make changes in their production systems. Currently, prices of basic products such as
rice (Saldana, Coello, Maria La Baja y La Doctrina use over 80% of available water to
produce rice) are 20% higher than the border price. This causes a lack of interest in
diversifying into more competitive crops like fruits and legumes.
There were aspects of the project design that were not properly evaluated and
some which were not executed as planned. INAT (formerly HIMAT) was not prepared
to manage a project of this size and complexity. Implementation was also hindered by
the multiple institutional reforms of the agency over the life of the project and by the
elimination of the Coordinating Unit which had successfully managed the first project
(Ln. 1996-CO). INAT's administrative capacity was poor, as was the coordination,
monitoring and supervision of work contracts; this made it difficult to correct mistakes in
contract execution that occurred rather frequently.
Other factors affecting project performance which contributed to not achieving the
expected impact on the production systems were: (a) delays in contracting studies and
civil works due to lengthy bidding processes; (b) lack of dissemination of new
technologies and the production systems identified by the applied research; (c) lack of
incentives to the farmer (through tariff systems) to maximize returns to water use; (d)
lack of participation of water users and the WUAs which resulted in their lack of
information on the possible advantages from changes proposed; and (e) insufficient



29
counterpart funds which contributed to the failure to disburse the full amount of the loan;
US$15 million remains undisbursed.
4. Future Operating Plan
INAT intends to finish the civil works agreed under the project. Works in Coello
have been 70% completed, but will not yield improvement in water use or availability
until they are completed. Completion, however, would result in twice as much water
available thereby increasing the irrigated area, providing greater reliability of water
supply to users, and making it possible to continue production during dry periods. The
completion of works in Saldana would result in a more intensive use of irrigated areas
and, therefore, better production; this together with better drainage would allow
cultivation of crops other than rice that currently cannot be grown. Prado Sevilla, where
the project had the most impact, would expand its existing irrigated area from 35,000 ha.
to 42,000 ha if the works are completed. The Maria la Baja district is where the degree of
completion of the works is lowest and where farmers situation is most precarious. In the
Abrego and Maria La Baja districts, farmers require more and better training on irrigation
techniques and crop production.
In spite of the Government's commitment, made at the time of the second loan
extension, to complete the program by the end of 1997 (after the loan closing),
projections made by INAT concerning proposed uses of its annual investment budget of
roughly US$ 100 million indicate that the bulk of the funds for completing the works
would not be available until the year 2000. In 1996, US$26 million (including loan
financing through June 1996) is programmed. For the remaining works which will be
financed solely from Government funds, INAT has made provisions as follows: US$3
million in 1997, US$4.5 million in 1998, US$4.5 million in 1999, and the remaining
US$20 million in 2000.
5. Financial and Economic Analysis
(a) Financial Analysis. The results of the analysis are that farmers' average income in
Prado Sevilla (model 8 and 80 ha.), and in La Doctrina (model 10 ha.) have increased
30% and 50%, respectively, in relation to a situation without the project (see tables 1 to
3). Whereas, farmers in the other four districts have not seen significant changes in
income.
(b) Economic Analysis. Economic benefits of the project investments were evaluated on
the basis of four scenarios; the appraisal report criteria for evaluating costs and benefits
were used. The economic analysis (table 4) shows an internal rate of return of 7.8%
(assuming the works remain incomplete) in comparison to the 28% expected in the SAR.
Of the six districts being rehabilitated, the project has a positive economic impact in only
one, Prado Sevilla, but not in the other districts (assuming that the works contracted at the
time of loan closing will be completed, but that no other works will be undertaken). The



30
following table shows global results under the four scenarios which have differing
assumptions concerning whether and when the civil works will be completed.
Economic Returns under Various Scenarios concerning Completion of Civil Works
Indicator.     Nofurther     Completion of    Completionof    :Marginal
wors beyond    total tprogram by  total progrm by    retur on 
those contracted  end of 1998    end of 2000     completing
IRR            7.8%           18.8%           15.5%           46%
NPV         -US$16 millon    US$55 millon   US$27 millon    US$59 millon
Calculation of NPV based on discount rate of 12%, whereas 11% assumed at appraisal.
This analysis undertaken in September 1996 shows that if the remaining civil
works were concluded between 1997 and 1998, the global IRR would increase from 7.8%
to 18.8%. This marked improvement would result from a high marginal return from the
remaining investments (having considered investments already made as sunk costs):
investing the US$36 million needed to complete the works in 1998 yields an IRR of
46%. The IRR would be 15.5% if works are not completed until the year 2000, INAT's
current plan.
6. Preliminary Conclusions
The economic and financial analysis confirms that the project did not achieve the
intended impact, due mainly to the fact that it was not implemented as planned. The
main reasons are: (a) the Government's economic policies distorted domestic prices; (b)
late completion of the designs for the civil works, aggravated by cumbersome bidding
and contracting procedures resulted in serious delays in implementation; (c) insufficient
training was provided to the water users and WUAs to change the production pattern and
improve the use of the existing infrastructure; and (d) budget restrictions limited the
availability of counterpart funds. In addition, the executing agency was not able to
prioritize investments, administer or coordinate activities in an efficient manner, and
lacked an integrated view of the project.
On the positive side, however, the new irrigation law and the importance it places
on the WUAs opens up the possibility for the strengthening of the districts; positive
changes are underway in the four new associations in Prado Sevilla and in the Maria la
Baja district where management was recently transferred to users. The Bank would like
to continue to support this process through an Institutional Development Grant to assist
the WUAs. Likewise, there is some evidence that the economic policy reforms of the
early 1 990s have resulted in changes in incentives and profitability which are slowly
leading to improved efficiency of irrigated agriculture. Finally, important progress was
made in the last year of the loan in developing alternatives for farmers to diversify the
cropping pattern away from rice in the Maria la Baja district.



COLOMBIA
PROYECTO DE REHABILITACION II
Cuadro 1. Prado de Sevifia Flnca I (B ha) MF
FINANCIAL BUDGET (AGGREGATED)
(in USS)
Ene-dk
Without Project                               With Project
1       6       10       11       12        1       6        10       11       12
Main Production
Platano                                  2.652     960      540      540      540    2.652      960      558      558      558
Citricos PS                                  -   2.661    6.720    7.500    7.500         -   5.006    8.064   10.000   10.50
Cacao PS                                 2.855   1.258        -        -         -    2.855    1.362       0        0        0
Arroz                                    1.365   1.3D2    4.196    4.134    3.975    1.356   1.660    6.534    6.435    6.188
Sub-total Main Production                  6.862   6.200   11.458   12.174   12.015    6.862   9.010   15.156   16.993   17.246
Production Cost
Costos Agricolas Prado de Sevilla        6.804   4.024    4.200    4.200    4.200    6.804   4.918    5.875    5.875    5.875
OUTFLOWS                                 6.804   4.024    4.200    4.200    4.200    6.804   4.918    5.875    5.875    5.875
Cash Flow Before Financing                   58   2.176    7.258    7.974    7.815        58   4.03    9.281    11.118   11.371
Net Financing                                  -    -476        -                       1.050    318         -        -        -
Cash Flow After Financing                    58   1.700    7.258    7.974    7.815    1.108   4.410    9.281    11.118   11.371
Change In Net Worth
Contiibuton from own savings                 -       -        -        -        -    1.060                 -        -
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period                                                                  -
Sub-Total Change In Net Worth                  -       -        -        -        -   .1.0-   -                       -        -
Fannm Family Benefits After Financing        58   1.700    7.258    7.974    7.815        58   4.410    9.281    11.118   11.371
IRR  246.19%, NPV  16,314.48



COLOMBIA
PROYECTO DE REHABILITACION II
Cuacro 2. Prado de Sevika Finca it (80 ha) MF
FINANCIAL BUDGET (AGGREGATED)
(In US$)
Ene-dic
Without Project                        With Project
1        6        10      11 to 12    1        5         10     11 to 12
Maln Production
Banano PS                               52.080    78.862   103.200    86.000   52.080    90.128   154.800   129.0C0
Palma Africana                          24.310    22.176    52.800    42240   24.310    25.872    66.000    52.800
Came                                     6.400     6.000     5.300     5.300    6.400    5.700     4.400     4.400
Sub-total Main Production                 82.790   107.038   161.300   133.540   82.790   121.700   225.200   186.200
Production Cost
Costos Agricolas Prado de Sevilla       57.380    67.610    94.920    94.920   57.380    77.320   133.760   133.760
OUTFLOWS                                57.380    67.610    94.920    94.920   57.380    77.320   133.760   133.760
Cash Flow Before Financing                25.410    39.428    66.380    38.620   25.410    44.380    91.440    52.440
Net Financing                                 -    -3.390         -         -    5.180    -9.560         -         -
Cash Flow After Financing                 25.410    36.038    66.380    38.620   30.5E0    34.820    91.440    52.440
Change In Net Worth
Contribution from own savings                -        -         -         -    5.180         -         -         -
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period                -_-_-_-_                               ._-_-___-_-
Sub-Total Change In Net Worth                  -        -         -         -   -5.180         --                  -
Farm Family Benefits After Financing      25.410    36.038    66.380    38.620   25.410    34.820    91.440    52.440
IRR  61.0%, NPV  65,841.41



COLOMBIA
PROYECTO DE REHABILITACION II
CUADRO 3. Distrito La Doctrina Flnca MF
FINANCIAL BUDGET (AGGREGATED)
(In USS)
Ene-dic
Without Project                   With Project
1       6      10       15      1       6       10      15
Main Production
Platano                                      -    392      396     396        -    470      594     648
Arroz                                    5.420   2.170   6.296   5.963   5.420   3.320   8.712   8.250
Sub-total Main Production                  5.420   2.562   6.692   6.359   5.420   3.791   9.306   8.898
Production Cost
Costos Agricolas Prado de Sevilla        5.216   2.290   3.825   3.825   5.216   3.435   5.100   5.100
Costos Agricolas La Doctrina                 -     127     153     148        -     191     230     222
Sub-Total Production Cost                  5.216   2.417   3.976   3.973   5.216   3.626   5.330   5.322
OUTFLOWS                                 5.216   2.417   3.978   3.973   5.216   3.626   5.330   5.322
Cash Flow Before Flnancing                   204     145   2.714   2.386     204      165   3.976   3.576
Net Financing                                  -    338        5       -    200       507       8       -
Cash Flow After Financing                   204      483   2.719   2.386     404      672   3.984   3.576
Change In Net Worth
Contribution from own savings                -       -       -        -    200        -       -       -
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period                     -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -
Sub-Total Change In Net Worth                  -       -       -       -    -200
Farrn Family Benetits After Financing        204     463   2.719   2.386     204      672   3.984   3.576
IRR  38.5%, NPV  3,242.56



COLOMBIA
PROYECTO DE REHABILITACION II
Rehabiloacon 11 Subproject Model
CUADRO 4. ECONOMIC BUDGET (AGGREGATED)
(In USS Million)
Ene4ff
Without Project                                    With Project
1       3       C       7       10       1S      1        3       6       7       10       15
Main Production
Bano  PS                                       39      44      86      100     108      90       39      44      8S      104     124      103
Phbno                                           1       1       0        0       0       0        1       1       0       0        0       0
Pbamno                                          5       3       3        3       2       2        5       3       3        3       2       3
Crias PS                                        I       1        1       2       4       8        I       1       2        2       6       11
Cacao PS                                        2       1       0        0       0       0        2       1       0        0       0        0
Papaya                                          -        -       -       0       0       0        -       -        --              -       0
Frutas PS                                       1       I        1       1       3       4        1       1        1       1       4        6
Mak                                             1       0        0       1       0       0        1       0       0        1       0        1
Sorgo Coelo                                     5       6       5        6       6       6        5       6       5        6       6        6
Arroz                                          81     106       95      60      71       67      81     106       46      61      73       72
Soya Coedlo                                     -       1        1       1       2       2        -       1       2        1       2        2
FrIolab                                         0       1       0        0       0       0        0       1       0        0       0        0
Algodon                                        12      16       16       3       7        7      12      16       16       3       7        7
PalmAfricana                                   19      26       17      21      36      32       19      26       17      21      38       35
Cebolla                                         9       3        1       2       3       2        9       3       1        2       3        2
Tomate                                          3       2        0       0       1        1       3       2       0        0       1        1
Came                                            3       3        3       2       2        1       3       3       2        2       1        1
Sub-totalMalnProduction                         179     215      191     203     244     224      179     215      185     209     268      250
Productlon Cost
Investment
isersones Proyecto                           -        -       -       -        -       -       -      14       17       9      33        -
Operating
Costos Agrkolas Prado de Sevilla             48      46       64      70      84       87      48      46       65      73      95       98
Costos Agrlcolas Abrego                       4       2        2       2       3        4       4       2        2       2       4        4
Costos Agrkolas Mariala Baja                  1        1       1       1        1       1       1       1        1       1       1        2
Costos Agrcolas La Dotrina                    0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Costos SaldaAa                               40      40       38      35      36       43      40      40       30      35      36       45
Sub4otal Operating Costs                       93      90      104     109     125      135      93      90      98      111     136      149
Sub-TotalProductionCost                          93      90      104     109     125      135      93     101      111     118     161      149
OUTFLOWS                                       93      90      104     109      125     135      93     101      111     118     161      149
Cash Flow                                        86     125       87      94     120       89      86     114       74      90     107      101
IRR = 7.8%, NPV = -16.22



35
APPENDIX B
INFORME DE FINALIZACI6N DE LA IMPLEMENTACION
COLOMBIA
REHABILITACION Y COMPLEMENTACION DE RIEGO
FASE II
(Prestamo 2667-CO)
A. OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
1.    Los objetivos del proyecto establecidos en el Staff Appraisal Report y en el
Contrato del Prestamo 2667-CO son los siguientes:
*  Incrementar la producci6n agricola en 108.000 hect6reas en los Distritos de
Abrego, Saldania, Coello, Maria La Baja, Prado de Sevilla y La Doctrina
mediante rehabilitaci6n de los mismos y mejoramiento de los servicios
tecnicos y de extensi6n, conduciendo a un uso mas intensivo del suelo.
*  Mejorar los ingresos de alrededor de 3.900 agricultores pobres ubicados en
cerca de 7.800 ha en las estribaciones de Los Andes y en las sabanas de la
regi6n norte, a traves del desarrollo de irrigaci6n en pequefna escala.
*  Restaurar parcialmente la producci6n agricola en el area afectada en la regi6n
de Armero por el desastre volcanico de Noviembre de 1985, mediante la
reconstrucci6n y ampliaci6n de infraestructura de irrigacion.
*  Mejorar la sostenibilidad de la inversi6n pu6blica en irrigaci6n a traves de la
completa recuperaci6n de los costos de operaci6n y mantenimiento y el
fortalecimiento de las asociaciones de usuarios en los Distritos cubiertos por
el Proyecto.
2.    Los Componentes del Proyecto:
Para lograr estos objetivos incluy6 los siguientes componentes:
*  Disefio y construcci6n de obras menores de rehabilitaci6n para beneficiar
alrededor de 108.000 hectareas en los Distritos de Abrego, Saldafia, Coello,
Maria La Baja, Prado de Sevilla y La Doctrina.
*  Reemplazo de equipo obsoleto de mantenimiento, para remitir a HIMAT
adelantar su programa de mantenimiento en los seis Distritos cubiertos por el
Proyecto.



36
*  Capacitaci6n de las asociaciones de usuarios de los Distritos, particularmente
en administraci6n y contabilidad, para remitirles empezar a recibir del
HIMAT la administraci6n de los Distritos.
*  Proveer asistencia tecnica y areas demostrativas para promover la aceptaci6n
por parte de los agricultores del riego suplementario, de un uso mas intensivo
del suelo (y de tecnicas de cultivo de camarones en el Distrito La Doctrina).
*  Hacer disponible el credito de corto y mediano plazo para el mejoramiento de
las practicas de administraci6n y financiamiento de cultivos y ganaderia, y
para adecuaci6n predial.
*   Control de erosi6n en alrededor de 3.000 hectareas severamente afectadas a
traves de reforestaci6n, terraceo y control de carcavas.
*  Desarrollo de nuevos esquemas de irrigaci6n a pequefia escala cubriendo
alrededor de 7.800 hectareas en las estribaciones de Los Andes y en las
sabanas de la regi6n norte, donde se concentra el minifundio y existe un
potencial de irrigaci6n de pequefia escala. Se previeron dos tipos de
desarrollos:
(i) Obras de derivaci6n en corrientes permanentes provenientes de la
cordillera con distribuci6n por gravedad del agua mediante tuberias PVC
enterradas. La aplicaci6n del riego se haria mediante aspersores de tipo de
jardin para el riego de hortalizas principalmente.
(ii) Represamiento de corrientes intermitentes en la regi6n norte del pais
para el riego de pastos y huertos.
Se contemplaba el desarrollo de alrededor de 150 hectareas de tales
esquemas, con areas entre 10 y 200 hectareas. El tamano promedio de los
predios a irrigar sera de 2 hectareas y el tamafio maximo de 10.
*  Reconstruir facilidades de riego de 5.000 hectareas y proveer nuevos
desarrollos de irrigaci6n en alrededor de 8.000 en la zona de Armero afectada
por la erupci6n del volcan de El Ruiz.
*  Proveer fondos para preparar nuevas inversiones en irrigacion.
3.    En la implementaci6n del Proyecto se contempl6 la vinculaci6n de las siguientes
entidades:
*  HIMAT seria la entidad ejecutora responsable de llevar a cabo el Proyecto.



37
*  El Fondo Financiero Agropecuario proveeria el credito para el capital
incremental de trabajo de los agricultores y para las inversiones prediales, a
traves del sistema bancario.
*  El ICA y las federaciones de productores serian contratados por HIMAT para
proveer servicios de extensi6n y asistencia tecnica. El Fondo Financiero
Agropecuario aceptaria el proyecto propuesto de asistencia tecnica como base
para otorgar credito para las inversiones prediales.
*  El SENA seria contratado para proveer servicios de capacitaci6n para el
componente de riego a pequenia escala.
4.    Cambios realizados durante la implementaci6n. El Prestamo fue declarado
efectivo en febrero de 1987 con fecha de cierre junio 30 de 1994. El HIMAT hoy INAT,
solicit6 una ampliaci6n de la fecha de cierre hasta el 30 de junio de 1995 que le fue
concedida mediante oficio del Banco de j unio de 1993. Posteriormente el INAT solicito
una nueva ampliaci6n hasta el 30 de junio de 1996 fecha final de cierre que fue aprobada
por el Banco del 30 de junio 1995. El 28 de febrero de 1992 fueron suspendidas las
inversiones en Maria La Baja y reanudadas en 30 de junio de 1995.
Uno de los riesgos previstos en el Appraisal seria la presentaci6n de una lenta
adopci6n de tecnologia por parte de los usuarios, esta previsi6n fue acertada y en especial
la relacionada con la nivelaci6n de suelos por el sistema de fangueo, de los cinco distritos
arroceros en donde se adelant6 esta practica solo fue adaptada en el Distrito de La
Doctrina por el alto costos de agua (bombeo y rebombeo).
5.    Claridad de los Objetivos. Los objetivos del Prestamo fueron claramente
definidos conjuntamente entre le Banco Mundial y el HIMAT hoy INAT al acordar desde
el primer prestamo del Banco (1 996-CO) que la politica conjunta era la de rehabilitar los
distritos existentes antes que construir nuevos proyectos de adecuaci6n de tierras, en este
orden de ideas, se adelantaron los estudios de factibilidad para cada uno de los distritos de
la Fase II a trav6s de los cuales se determinaron las obras civiles a rehabilitar, ampliar o
contemplar, no ocurri6 lo mismo con el Programa Piloto de pequefia irrigaci6n que se
adelant6 a partir de los criterios de la entidad y no de las necesidades sentidas de las
comunidades beneficiadas.
En cuanto al area de desastre, ocasionada por la erupci6n del volcan-nevado del
Ruiz, los objetivos fueron totalmente improvisados y sus resultados no fueron los
esperados, salvo la recuperaci6n de la infraestructura de riego existente.
Indudablemente este proyecto fue importante para el pais y para el sector, puesto
que aunque se tenia la experiencia del manejo de un primer credito, se afianz6 y
fortaleci6 la Instituci6n en esta area; mas adelante se comentaran ampliamente estos
aspectos.



38
B. LOGRO DE LOS OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
6.    Valoraci6n del Exito. El exito alcanzado en el logro de los objetivos del
Proyecto fue parcial debido entre otros a los siguientes factores. No se cumpli6 el
Programa de Obras Civiles en Distritos ni de inversi6n previsto; el Proyecto tuvo una
ejecuci6n de diez afnos; sin embargo, hubo aspectos como:
*   Se fortaleci6 institucionalmente al INAT tanto desde el punto de vista de la
entidad como de los funcionarios al adelantar un vigoroso plan de
capacitaci6n de Directivos con la visita de Directores Regionales a Distritos
de Espafia y Mejico, cursos de capacitaci6n a funcionarios a Utah State
University, se mejor6 la aplicaci6n de agua a los cultivos al introducirse
practicas de riego modernas como micro-aspersi6n, aspersi6n y goteo en
especial al cultivo del banano y de nivelaci6n de suelos por el sistema de
fangueo a los cultivos de arroz, se fortaleci6 financieramente al INAT al
contar con recursos extemos y de contrapartida que al no existir el credito no
se hubieran recibido.
*  Se fortalecieron las entidades participantes del Sector Privado, en especial las
Federaciones de Productores tales como Fedearroz, Fedecacao, Federalgod6n,
Fenalce, ya que a traves de las consultorias de extensi6n se robustecieron sus
departamentos tecnicos y a sus tecnicos que ingresaron a la technologia de la
agricultura bajo riego.
*  En los aspectos relacionados con el beneficio real recibido por los
agricultores se logr6 una mayor disponibilidad de agua lo que permiti6 en
algunos distritos ampliar las area bajo riego y por consiguiente se alcanzaron
algunas mejoras econ6micas.
*  En cuanto hace relaci6n al Proyecto Piloto de Pequefia Irrigaci6n, este
cumpli6 a cabalidad las metas fisicas y financieras propuestas y los objetivos
sociales de dotar de riego a las areas minifundistas; en general se puede
calificar el desempefno de este componente del prestamo como satisfactorio.
*  Para lo relacionado con adquisici6n de maquinaria, equipo y partes, estos se
compraron casi en su totalidad, a excepci6n del equipo m6vil de riego para
200 hectareas por considerarse que este equipo no se necesitaba y el equipo
de enfriamiento de leche que no tuvo la acogida necesaria por parte de los
usuarios. Dado que los equipos se compraron en los primeros afios del
prestamo estos entraron a cumplir sus funciones muy rapidamente,
reflejandose esto en el normal mantenimiento y operaci6n de los distritos, el
desempefno en esta categoria se puede considerar de satisfactorio.



39
* En relaci6n con la extensi6n, asistencia tecnica y capacitaci6n se cumplieron
satisfactoriamente, los objetivos propuestos al capacitar tanto en el pais como
en el exterior a funcionarios del Instituto y a asistentes tecnicos.
7.    Valor Presente Neto. La tasa de retorno econ6mico (ERR) estimada a la fecha
del cierre del prestamo es del 8.7% descontada al doce por ciento, igualmente el Valor
Presente Neto (NPV) registrado para el proyecto fue de US$13.14 millones,
comparativamente, la proyecci6n actualizada del escenario que contempla la terminaci6n
de las obras para un periodo aproximado de dos aflos registra los siguientes indicadores
una IRR de 20.0% y NPV de US$69.34 millones.
Prestamo 2667-CO        Evaluaci6n Econ6mica           Evaluaci6n Financiera
IRR           NPV *            IRR           NPV *
Rehabilitacion FASE II        8.7%          $13.14           4.3%           44.98
Rehabilitaci6n FASE II
Terminaci6n Obras            20.0%          $69.34          12.7%            $7.8
* Millones de US$ de 1996
8.    Ingresos Agricolas. Considerando para el proyecto en la situaci6n actual un area
total agricola regada para el afio de 1996 (sin estimar proyecciones) de 105.000 hectareas,
y utilizando los patrones de costos agricolas y los precios vigentes para el aflo de analisis
se estiman unos ingresos netos incrementales del orden de US$9.0 millones anuales.
C. FACTORES IMPORTANTES QUE AFECTAN EL PROYECTO
9.    Factores No sujetos a control del Gobierno. El ritmo de ejecuci6n de las obras
civiles a nivel de distrito y en consecuencia de las inversiones fue muy lento, y por lo
tanto la ejecuci6n del Prestamo cuyo cierre estaba provisto para junio de 1994 se extendi6
hastajunio de 1996.
*  Se registraron incrementos notables en el costo de las obras, entre otras causas por la
anotada anteriormente.
*  Divisi6n de las obras de rehabilitaci6n y construcci6n en tramos de canales, lo que di6
lugar a un gran niimero de contratos, contratistas, interventores, supervisores y
muchos frentes de trabajo que se habrian podido obviar a traves de una agrupaci6n de
obras por paquetes, dando lugar a una sola Licitaci6n Piublica Internacional (LPI).
*  Al no haberse adquirido con anterioridad a las obras las zonas (derechos de via) y
mejoras de las areas de rehabilitaci6n, complementacion y ampliaci6n, se paralizaron
los contratos en algunos casos y en otros no se pudieron iniciar, lo que dio lugar a



40
largos traimites para su adquisici6n y grandes demoras en la ejecuci6n de los contratos
de obra.
10.   Factores Generalmente sujetos a Control del Gobierno. En los primeros afios
de ejecuci6n del Prestamo se presentaron limitaciones financieras para ejecuci6n de
obras, por falta de apropiaci6n de recursos de Contrapartida, por parte del Ministerio de
Hacienda. El Estatuto de contrataci6n existente (Decreto 222) y vigente durante la mayor
parte de ejecuci6n del credito, exigia procesos largos y dispendiosos tanto para estudios
como para licitaciones, lo que llev6 a una demora significativa en la iniciaci6n de los
procesos de disefno y construcci6n de las obras, afectando su ritmo de ejecuci6n y los
costos del Proyecto.
11.   Factores Generalmente sujetos a Control por Parte del INAT. Limitaciones
en el alcance y grado de profundidad de los estudios de factibilidad y de los disefios
detallados. Esto di6 como resultado en algunos casos, cambios en los tipos y
caracteristicas de las obras previstas en los estudios de factibilidad y durante el proceso
de disefio en otros casos, en la necesidad de incluir obras adicionales no previstas en los
estudios de factibilidad y en general una subestimaci6n considerable de los costos de las
obras.
* Limitaciones en el alcance de los estudios basicos de topografia y geotecnia, en el que
el cubrimiento de los predisefnos de los sistemas secundario y terciario fue parcial,
efectuado sobre bases cartograficas aproximadas.
*  En los primeros afios de desarrollo del Prestamo se fijaron, por parte de las Oficinas
Centrales, precios unitarios para las obras ajenos a la realidad, impidiendo con esta
medida que las obras programadas en esos periodos se concluyeran, por falta de
presupuesto.
* Caso especial, que tiene relaci6n con todo lo expuesto, es el relacionado con el
problema presentado en la fase constructiva del sif6n de la Quebrada Papagala en el
distrito de Saldafia, que al fallar los estudios fisicos, no se pudo Ilevar a cabo y las
nuevas obras construida tales como la bocatoma y el desarenador no tienen un total
aprovechamiento.
* El Instituto contrat6 firmas para adelantar algunas interventorias, las cuales no
contaban con personal calificado y experimentado en obras de riego, que si hubieran
contado con esta experiencia se habria podido subsanar oportuna y adecuadamente,
durante el proceso de construcci6n, las deficiencias que presentaron los disefnos.
* Cuando la interventoria de la construcci6n de las obras fue delegada en funcionarios
de las Regiones se presentaron limitaciones, debido a que dichos funcionarios debian
atender otras muiltiples responsabilidades relacionadas con la marcha de los Distritos



41
y carecian del personal de apoyo tales como inspectores, comisiones de topografia,
etc.
*  Complejidad excesiva en los tramites de contrataci6n por parte del HIMAT (hoy
INAT), lo que llev6 en general a una demora significativa en la iniciaci6n de los
procesos de disefio y construcci6n de las obras, lo que afect6 el ritmo de avance en la
ejecuci6n de las obras y el sobrecosto de estas.
* Se presentaron casos de selecci6n inadecuada de contratistas de construcci6n que
condujeron a sobrecostos y retrasos en su ejecuci6n y en algunos casos, se decret6 la
caducidad administrativa de los contratos.
D. SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
12.   La posibilidad que el Proyecto sea sostenible es probable siempre y cuando se den
las condiciones, dado que la meta final era que a los seis Distritos les sea delegada su
administraci6n el las Asociaciones de Usuarios, caso que ya se ha presentado en Coello,
Saldafia, Maria La Baja, Prado de Sevilla, Abrego y La Doctrina, estas deben velar por
recaudar vIa tarifas, los costos de operaci6n, conservaci6n y administraci6n de los
Distritos, asi como cuotas de reposici6n de maquinaria y de manejo de la cuenca
aportante para administrar sin dificultades los Distritos que no hagan necesarios nuevos
procesos de rehabilitaci6n. Por otra parte, es importante que las obras propuestas se
concluyan en su totalidad con recursos provenientes del Presupuesto Nacional. El caso
que por alguna circunstancia, no sea posible cubrir el 100% de estos costos en los
Distritos de Maria La Baja y La Doctrina, es necesario establecer un subsidio, con un
horizonte de desmonte del mismo a mediano plazo.
E. DESEMPENO DEL BANCO
13.   La concepci6n del Proyecto fue buena y consistente con los planes de desarrollo
propuestos y con las prioridades y estrategias del Banco para Colombia, aunque debido a
fallas en la identificaci6n de necesidades de rehabilitaci6n y a la baja estimaci6n de los
costos del Proyecto en el SAR, esto condujo a programar obras con costos superiores a
los estimados en Appraisal, la valoraci6n de desempefno del Banco fue satisfactoria.
* Durante los primeros afios de vida del Proyecto se recibi6 una asistencia integral por
parte de los diferentes Oficiales del Prestamo en las areas tecnicas y administrativas a
traves de conferencias, transferencia de conocimientos, entrega de material t6cnico
tales como Software y publicaciones del Banco, esta actividad declin6 en los uiltimos
afios de su ejecuci6n.
*  Los sucesivos cambios de Oficiales de Prestamo causaron algunos traumatismos para
su normal ejecuci6n, dandose el caso de Oficiales de Prestamo que no dominaban el
idioma castellano, lo mismo ocurri6 con los Terminos de Referencia y Pliego de



42
Condiciones que fueron modificados varias veces por el Banco, lo que ocasion6
dilaciones en el proceso de contrataci6n.
El comportamiento del Banco en los aspectos relacionados con los desembolsos fue
altamente satisfactoria, permitiendo una rotaci6n rapida de los recursos y algo que fue
de gran ayuda fue la apertura de la cuenta especial que permiti6 gran liquidez a la
Tesoreria del INAT y el pago pronto y oportuno a los contratistas y proveedores.
Otra ventaja significativa fue el hecho de que el credito estuvo en cabeza del INAT y
no de la Naci6n lo que le di6 gran agilidad en su ejecuci6n financiera.
F. DESEMPENO DEL PRESTATARIO
14.   Como se ha expuesto anteriormente los costos del Proyecto fueron subestimados y
su periodo de ejecuci6n muy largo dando como resultado que las metas tanto fisicas como
financieras propuestas en el SAR no se cumplieran. El desempefno de la entidad fue
deficiente en los aspectos de la rehabilitaci6n, complementacion y ampliaci6n de
Distritos, quedando sin utilizar del Prestamo cerca de US$14 millones, siendo necesario
financiar, con recursos del FONAT de la actual vigencia cerca de US$14 millones, para
amparar los contratos en ejecuci6n.
15.   El Programa Piloto de Pequefia Irrigaci6n, se cumpli6 totalmente en los aspectos
relacionados con ei cumplimiento de las metas fisicas y financieras, siendo el desempeflo
del [NAT satisfactorio, asi como los relacionados con la adquisici6n de bienes y servicios
y en extensi6n y capacitaci6n. En cuanto a las clausulas contractuales relacionadas con
recuperaci6n de costos de operaci6n y mantenimiento fue deficiente el desempefio del
INAT salvo para los casos de Coello y Saldania quienes ya recuperaban el 100% desde
1979, aflo de su tranferencia a los Usuarios.
16.   La entidad no estaba preparada para ejecutar un credito de esa magnitud y las
sucesivas reformas que hubo llevaron a la desaparici6n de la Unidad Coordinadora
HIMAT-Banco Mundial, que habia manejado exitosamente el primer credito (Prestamo
1996-CO), lo que ocasion6 que se atomizara la responsabilidad del manejo fisico,
financiero y administrativo del Prestamo.
G. VALORACION DE LOS RESULTADOS
17.   Se considera que el resultado del Proyecto fue satisfactorio, habida cuente que las
metas propuestas se cumplieron parcialmente.
H. LECCIONES CLAVES APRENDIDAS
* No se deben fraccionar las obras, sino que deben hacerse paquete de estas a fin de
que se tengan Licitaciones Puiblicas Intemacionales (LPI) con un solo contratista, e
interventor.



43
*  Se debe volver al manejo centralizado del Prestamo con una Unidad Coordinadora
responsable de las partes fisicas, financieras, administrativas y de desembolsos asi
como de presentar informes peri6dicos a la Banco Multilateral y a las diferentes
entidades del Gobiemo.
*  Antes de declarar efectivo un Prestamo se debe contar con estudios y disefios
detallados que permitan valorar el costo de las obras y por consiguiente el monto de
un Prestamo.
*  Se debe contar con Terminos de Referencia y Pliegos de Condiciones "tipo o
modelo" para declarar la efectividad de un Prestamo.
*  Se debe contar con los recursos de Contrapartida y evitar el al maximo el recorte de
estos durante la respectiva "vigencia" presupuestal.
o  La comunidad debe tener una participaci6n activa en las fases de preparaci6n y
ejecuci6n de un Prestamo y firmar actas de compromiso relacionadas con
recuperaci6n de costos de operaci6n y mantenimiento y de inversiones.
o  Todos los funcionarios de la instituci6n ejecutora deben conocer los objetivos de un
Prestamo, sus normas y procedimientos, para lo cual deben adelantarse seminarios
de implementaci6n tanto a nivel local como regional.
o  Se debe tener continuidad de los funcionarios tanto del Banco como de la entidad
ejecutora para asegurar el exito del Proyecto.
*  Se debe continuar con seminarios de capacitaci6n dirigida a funcionarios de la
entidad ejecutora en aspectos tecnicos y administrativos.
*  Se debe tener flexibilidad por parte del Banco para modificar las metas previstas en
el SAR, de acuerdo con las necesidades de la entidad.
*  Las condiciones de efectividad de un Prestamo deben buscar la pronto puesta en
funcionamiento y no deben dilatarla.
I. OPERACION FUTURA
18.   Habida cuenta que el costo de las obras propuestas en el SAR y luego definida en
los estudios de factibilidad, superaron ampliamente los costos del Proyecto, el Instituto ha



44
programado una serie de inversiones con el prop6sito de buscar garantizar la terminaci6n
de las obras iniciadas y construir las programadas, con un horizonte de cuatro aflos. Para
el aflo de 1996 se cuenta con recursos del Presupuesto nacional (FONAT) del orden de
US$13 millones para financiar los contratos en ejecucion que al cierre del Prestamo,
quedaron desfinanciados. En principio, para los afnos siguientes se han programado los
recursos faltantes asi:
ANOS        1996       1997     1998       1999     2000    TOTAL
Us$
(MILLIONES)    13.0       3.0       4.5       6.8       20.0     47.3



COLOMBIA                                 o-
I RR  IGATION                              °       s°      00         s    700      200     300
REHABILITATION  11                               a            so           ,o           ,so                                              j
PROJECT                                                          MILES
A     rrols   l'ssas.                                    bb        r                                                    - *  A
A    FPlr5 Ft.h.bl.oio.n Psomo- ILo.n 1998- CO)
P- Pod -unk rool/d.                                                              o.           s.
_    ooed roads                                                 roI 013p0 0ws<v   .\> ~   , 7                    ri 
Llpoved roods ,                                                       c      .:,
_Ro2itroods cwz> . a ^o ;  5-  s:
Ra.ilrod dcossn-ed                           AT A\.                                                                # .
o   Ia.faosot,l airports                             SO01              ~
*   POo*d aDrOr.           -                                       .u.. Si.  DI)                 u.4,  O~ 
o U.Paoud aiopo,IS
s-   o stpots                          '                              -  
w  . ' 4 4R  E N X1
i    -r                       %         a      Departas  b-d-                                  w-     C
--~ ~ I s . 55 ,oOOI busiodo)Iia
A Ar
Pac,f,0   O.ean                                                                                                    . .  ;  |
,   a   <   L  I  orStr*S _ S~~~~~~~~~~1,  
r   /  Oreon   <           e        X         M      i      X      *     s     9     2     -    ^       13,                |             4-~~~Cuo~ 
t dErav9X<',b,,/'sAL                                                                    d
4  N's  l)  O -9^d->,,.  js;NB <sc^4         ,  [b<@l  |                            v              S /       elle<7  **dT
U8 1,_ AUCA









IMAGING
Report No.:          16584
Type:     ICR



