Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3178 KO
                          Loan Agreement
               (Juam Regional Water Supply Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 10, 1990
         LOAN NUMBER 3l78 KO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 10, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   Upon completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
transfer the works and facilities carried out under the Project to
the Korea Water Resources Corporation for operation and maintenance
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement;
      (C)   Kwangju City Government and other municipalities have
agreed to construct complementary water supply facilities required
to utilize the water delivered under the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the KOWACO Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and Korea Water Resources
Corporation, and the Kwangju Agreement of even date herewith between
Page  2
the Bank and Kwangju City Government;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "KOWACO" means the Korea Water Resources Corporation;
      (b)   "KOWACO Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and KOWACO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the KOWACO Agreement;
      (c)   "Kwangju" means the Kwangju City Government;
      (d)   "Kwangju Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Kwangju of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Kwangju
Agreement;
      (e)   "Project Municipalities" means the municipalities of
Naju City, Hwasun Town, Tong Myon, Togok Myon, Mampyon Myon, Sanpo
Myon, Noan Myon and Kumchon Myon;
      (f)   "Kwangju Metropolitan Area" means the area comprising
the jurisdiction of Kwangju City Government and the Project
Municipalities;
      (g)   "Transfer and Operations Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and KOWACO pursuant to the
provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty-four million dollars ($34,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Korea Exchange
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or
Page  3
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)    For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                        (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
                  principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                  outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
                  Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
                  determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
                  plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
                  of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
                  accrued on the principal amount outstanding
                  during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
                  at the rates applicable during such Interest
                  Period."
                        "(b) As soon as practicable after the end
                  of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
                  Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
                  determined in respect of such Quarter."
                        "(c)(iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month
                  period commencing on January 1, April 1, July l
                  or October l in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April l and October l in each year.
Page  4
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through its
Ministry of Construction with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, engineering
and public utility practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
funds, facilities, services and other resources, required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
KOWACO and Kwangju to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the KOWACO and Kwangju Agreements all the obligations of KOWACO and
Kwangju, respectively, therein set forth.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Project
Municipalities to carry out by December 31, 1993, extensions to
their water distribution systems, in order to use the water made
available under the Project, and shall assist the Project
Municipalities in the provision of the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required to carry out said extensions.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 4.0l. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
Page  5
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representative to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditures submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. For the purposes of operating and maintaining
the works and facilities completed under the Project the Borrower
shall, prior to the completion of the Project, enter into a
Transfer and Operations Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with
KOWACO. A draft of such Agreement including the terms, conditions
and financial arrangements shall be furnished to the Bank, not
later than December 31, 1993, for the Bank's review and comments.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.0l. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   KOWACO or Kwangju shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the KOWACO Agreement or the
Kwangju Agreement.
      (b)   Law No. 3997 dated December 4, 1987 of the Borrower,
as amended to the date of this Agreement, shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of KOWACO to perform any of
its obligations under the KOWACO Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of KOWACO or for the suspension of its
operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                 ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
Page  6
      (a)   that the KOWACO Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by KOWACO, and is legally binding upon KOWACO in
accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Kwangju Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Kwangju and is legally binding upon Kwangju in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Kwachon
            Republic of Korea
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  MOF                            K 23243
                  Kwachon
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                  REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                  By /s/ Sohn Mvung Hvun
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
Page  7
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
l.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and             34,000,000        100% of foreign
    materials                                   expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
                              __________
         TOTAL                34,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                       SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve and expand the
water supply in the Kwangju Metropolitan Area by ensuring
efficient use of scarce water resources and to support
institutional improvements in the sector.
      The Project consists of the following, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
      The construction of a first-stage of water supply program
from the Juam Dam to the Kwangju Metropolitan Area including: (i)
installation of the intake pipeline (about 0.8 km of 2.8 m in
diameter), (ii) construction of a pumping station (peak capacity
of 520 MLD), (iii) installation of raw water transmission
facilities (about 36 km of 2.8 m to 1.8 m in diameter), (iv)
construction of a water treatment plant (capacity of 60 MLD), (v)
installation of treated water transmission facility (about 25.5 km
of 1.2 m to 0.8 m in diameter), and (vi) preparation of detailed
design and supervision of construction of the Project.
Page  8
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1993.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (Expressed in dollars)*
      On each April 1 and October 1
        beginning October 1, 1995
        through April 1, 2005             1,700,000
_______________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                     Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                  Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment, multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years            0.20
   before maturity
More than three years but            0.40
   not more than six years
   before maturity
More than six years but           0.73
   not more than 11 years
   before maturity
More than 11 years but not           0.87
   more than 13 years
   before maturity
More than 13 years before               1.00
   maturity
                           SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  9
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Korea may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs l through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Contracts for miscellaneous small items, up to an aggregate
amount of $1,700,000 equivalent, may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
l.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
Paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "eligible Category" means the Category set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule l to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
Page  10
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant
                  to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                  or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request,
                  the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been
                  shown by said documents and other evidence to
                  have been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the eligible Category, and in the equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Category less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
Page  11
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
