Document of
The WVorld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9478
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1246-BEN).
MARCH 28, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
khis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIAT10NS
BAG         Baccalaureat
Upper Secondary School Certificate
BEN         Benin
BEPC        Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cvcle
Lower Secondary School Certificete
BID         Islamic Development Bank
CAA         Ceisse Autonome d'Amortissement
Autonomous Amortization Fund
CAP         Certificat d'Aotitude PMdanoriaue
Teacher's Certificate
CPAP        African Financial Community franc
CNPMS       Cetre National de Production de Manuels Scolairee
National Textbook Production Center
CP          Comolexe Polvtechnioue
Vocational Institute
CPA         Comolexe Polvtechniue Agricole
Agricultural Vocatic.al Inetitute
CPI         Comnlexe Polytechnioue Industriel
Induetrial Vocational Institute
CUC8S       Centre Universitaire de Coopnration Economioue et Sociale
University  Center  for  Economic  and  Social  Cooperation
(Nancy,France)
DON         General Directorate of the Ministry
DM          Deutsche Mark
DPE         Direction Provincisle ("Ddpartementale, DDE" after March 15. 1990)
de l'Enseienement
Provincial Directorate of Education
DMET        Direction Provinciale ("D6yartementale, DDET" after March 15. 1990)
de l'Eouicement et des Transeorts
Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Transportation
ENI         Ecole Normale Int6gr6e
Teachers College
fRB         Federal Republic of Germany
GNP         Gross National Product
GTZ         Deutsche Gesellschaft fOr Technische Zusaemenarbeit
German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IDA         International Development Association
IBM         Institut National Dour la Formation et la Recherche en Education
National Institute of Education Training and Research
JIR         Jeunes Instituteurs R6volutionnaires
National Teaching Service Teachers
moEM        Minist6re des Enseignements Maternel et de Base
Ministry of Pre-Primary and Primary Education (before March 15,
1990)
HEMOCT      Ministere des Enseienements Hovens C6n6ral. Tecenioue et
Professionnel
Ministry of General Secondary. Technical and Vocational Education
(before 1986)
HEMS        Minist6re des Enseianemento Movens et Suodrieur
Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education (from 1986 to March 15.
1990)
HEN         Ministre de l'Education Nationale
Ministry of National Education (since March 15. 1990)
MET         Minist6re de l'EQuioement et des Transoorts
Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
MIP         Minist4re de l'Information et de la Prooaaande
Ministry of Information and Propaganda (before March 15, 1990)
MIS         Management Information System (of IDA)
MPS         Minist4re du Plan et de ia Statistiaue
Ministry of Planning and Statistics
PB          Project Brief
PU          Project Unit
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PCR         Project Completion Report
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP         Structural Adjustment Program
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SEFIC       Soci6t6 d'Expertise Comotable. d'Audit. d'Oraenisation,
d'Informatique et de Conseils
Accounting. Auditing. Organization. Data Processing and Consulting
Company
S0DETLE     Soci6tA d'Etudes et de Techniques et d'Entreorises G6n6rales
(Studies and General Techniques and Enterprises Company) (Paris.
France)
SwF         Swiss franc
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
Unesco      United Nations Educational. Scientific and Cultural Organization
Unesco CP   Unesco/World Bank Cooperative Program



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of OirectcW.G.wa
Opwatons Evluati'rn
March 28, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TEE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   ProJect Completion Report - Benin
Second Education Proiect (Credit 1246-BEN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Benin Second Education Project (Credit
1246-BEN)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Prolect Comnletion Report            FOR OMFCL USE ONLY
BENIN
Second Education Project
(IDA Credit 1246-BEN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   ,..............................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          i
PART I   REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FRRIC THE BAR'S PERSPECTIV   . . . . .           1
A.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B.  Background.       . .  . . . . . . . . . . 1        . .  . .
C.  Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . .          2
D.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .          3
E.  Project Implementation .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          4
F.  Project Results  . . . .  . . . . . . 5. . . . . . . .            5
G.  Project Sustainability .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          7
H. IDA Performance. .. . .  . . . . . . . . . . .                     7
I.  Borrower Performance . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          9
J.  Project Relationships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         10
K.  Contracted Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         10
L.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . .         11
PART II  REVIEW OF TE PROJECT FlRM THE B0RR(IRS PERSPECTE  . . .               13
1. Introduction ......................                               13
2.  Project Preparation  .   . . .   .    . . .   . . . . . .        26
3.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           28
4.  Problems ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  . . . . ..     20
5.  Project Financing  . .  .  . .   .   .   .   . . . . . .         20
6.  Status of Credit Agreement Covenants . . . . . . . . . .         21
7.  Implementation Timetable and Credit Management . . . . .         21
8.  Borrower and IDA Performance . .   . .        . . . . . . .      21
9.  Conclu.sions and Lessons  . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .        22
PARTIIISTATISTICALi FORMATION  . ........ .........                           . 25
1.  Related IDA Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         25
2.  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .        26
3.  Credit Disbursements . . e. . . . . .  . . . . . . .  . .        27
4.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         27
5.  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         28
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         30
7.  Status of Credit Agreement Covenants . . . . . . . . . .         32
8.  Use of IDA Reaources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Paae No.
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Implementation Timetable . . . . . . . . . .    38
2.  Comparative Table of Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . .    39
3. Comparative Table of Technical
Assistance Specialists . . .  ..............               40
4. Comparative Table of Training
Fellowships  ....  .   .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    43
5.  Comments of the Government of Benin  . . . . . . . . . .    44



Proiect Completion Report
BENIN
Second Education Project
(IDA Credit 1246-BEN)
PREFACE
This document constitutes the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Second Education Project in Benin, for which Credit 1246-BEN, for SDR 12.2
million, was approved on May 13, 1982.  The Credit was closed on June 30, 1989,
a year later than originally scheduled.   It was fully disbursed; the last
disbursement took place on February 26, 1990.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were
prepared jointly by Unesco (Bureau for Co-ordination of Operational Activities,
Operational Policy and Sector Analysis Division) and IDA (Occidental and Central
Africa Department, Population and Human Resources Division).   Part II was
prepared by the Government of Benin (Project Unit). Subsequent to the preparation
of this PCR, the comments of the Government of Benin and of the cofinancing
agencies (Swiss Development Cooperation and GTZ) on the French version of the PCR
were sought by Unesco (July 25, 1990). The Government's comments (cf. Annex 5)
were received in September 1990 and have been reflectee In this PCR; no comments
have been received from the cofinanciers.
Preparation of the PCR began during IDA's final supervision missions
in 1988 and 1989. The project completion mission took place from April 21 to May
12, 1990.   The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Credit Agreement, the Project Unit's progress reports, IDA supervision reports,
correspondence between IDA, the cofinanciers and the Beninese Government, and IDA
internal memoranda.



- iii -
Proiect Completion Report
BENIN
Second Education Project
(IDA Credit 1246-BEN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives (sue paras. 1.01, 1.03 and 1.04)
1.        The objectives of the project, in line with those of the education
sector and with the macroeconomic policy of the National Development Plan, were
to improve the quality of primary and lower secondary education with the ultimate
object of widening access to the education system, improving its external
efficiency and reducing its costs. The Project comprised three components (cf.
para. 1.05):
(a)   Primary and lcrier secondary education:   (i) construction,
furniture and equipment for three ENIs (teachers colleges). at
Lokossa, Natitingou and Parakou, for training about 675 prix@ary
sch4ol teachers and 260 lower secondary school teachers
annually; (ii) establishment of training programs for ENI
students, focussing on the general disciplines at the primary
level and the general and vocational disciplines at the lower
secondary level; and (iii) about 14 fellowships, equivalent to
about  168  training-months,   for  the  Beninese  personnel
responsible for operation and maintenance of the ENIs.
(b)   Production  and  distribution  of  textbockAs:    construction,
furniture and equipment for a print shop at Porto-Novo; (ii)
construction, furniture and equipment for a central warehouse
located near the print shop and six regional warehouses at
localities to be agreed upon with IDA; (III) establishment and
start-up of a program for printing and distributing about
470.000 textbooks and teaching guides a year; and (iv) about
three fellowships, equivalent to 85 staff-months of training
abroad, for print shop staff.
(c)   Proiect manaaement. evaluation and nlanning:  (i) strengthening
of the Project Unit by improvement of its management,
procurement and accounting procedures, supply of additional
furniture and equipment, financial assistance for start-up, and
about five fellowships, equivalent to 60 staff-months of
training, in areas related to project management; (Il)
establishment of a system of monitoring and evaluation of



-iv -
project activities; and (iii) planning and preparation of future
education projects.
Implementation Ex_erience ( '. paras. 1.08, 1.09 and 1.10)
2.        Substantial  variances  were  noted  between  planned  and  actual
implementation:
(a)   the Credit closing was put back a year and physical completion
delayed by up to three and a half years (owing essentially to
delays in completion of the civil works and project staff
training); and
(b) total cost exceeded the appraisal estimate by 22Z in US dollar:s
equivalent; and
(c)   the distribution of actual project costs differed from the
appraisal estimatea: higher expenditures for equipment.
fellowships and operation; lower expenditures for local fees and
technical assistance; the distribution of the financing also
differed: IDA's share declined from 55 to 46 percent. while
that of the Beninese Government rose from 13 to 17 percent.
Results (cf. paras. 1.11. 1.12 and 1.13)
3.        The project results were achieved only partially:
(a)   ENIs:   (i) the infrastructure and equipment exist but are
insufficiently used; (ii) an adequate number of nearby staff
residences was not provided; (iii) no maintenance system is as
yet in operation; and (iv) the number of teachers trained is
still far less than planned (445 instead of 935 at the end of
the current school year).
(b)   Textbooks:    (i)  the  production  of  manuscripts  is  still
inadequate (12 instead of 36. with only 4 printed); (ii)
manufacture is too limited (26,200 copies instead of 470.000);
and (iii) a distribution system is not as yet in operation.
Sustainabilitv (cf. paras. 1.14 and 1.15)
4.        The net project benefits can be expected to increase when (a) the
education reform currently under study is implemented, and (b) the official
textbook production and distribution policy and strategies are finalized.
Pindings and Lessons Learned (po-as. 1.16 through 1.19)
(a)   The Project was well designed since the components are mutually
complementary and respond to the Governmenc's needs and
strategies.  It was innovative in that (i) it rationalizes



-v
teacher training (3 ENIs instead of the previous 6) and made the
approach to training more professional; (i) it catered for the
training of technical and vocational secondary education
teachers; and (iii) it provided linkage between teacher training
and textbook production and distribution. However, in the case
of the textbooks component, more detailed analysis of the
textbooks problem and of the existing publishing and
distribution agencies vwould have made it possible to define the
content and distribution of each agency's tasks more precisely
and to avoid relying on resource-poor and therefore inefficient
bureaucratic agencies.
(b)   Project identification, with IDA assistance, was good, but
preparatior. was too hasty on the education side: (i) too little
input into the ENI curricula, which ought to have been tailored
more closely to the teachers' professional needs, and (ii) too
hasty choice of the "printing facility" option.   Appraisal
rightly diagnosed certain risks, but insufficiently prescribed
for minimizing them. The education supervision missions were
too few, particularly in the case of agricultural education.
The essent4al lesson to be drawn is that a broader, more
comprehensive approach to the education system is needed before
deciding on the areas of intervention, together with closer and
more coherent monitoring of the education aspects during project
implementation.
(c)   The Borrower provided good continuity of the activities, thanks
to the stability of the Project Unit, and acted energetically to
ensure completion of two ENIs through parallel management of the
defaulting contractor (to which two difficult construction
contracts had been awarded, despite IDA's recommendation that.
having regard to its capacity, it be awarded only one).
However, the dispersal of the personnel and powers of the
Project Unit among several departments hampered coordination and
monitoring of certain activities. The essential lesson to be
taken into account in future oparations is therefore the
importance of having a coordinating mechanism at an appropriate
level of the existing administrative structure.



Proiect Comjletion Report
BENIN
Second Education Project
(IDA Credit 1246-BEN)
PART I. REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE 3ANR'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name:       Second Education Project
Credit No.:         1246-BEN
RVP Unit:           Africa
Country:            Benin
Sector:             Education
B. Background
1.01      Sectoral develonment goals (Appraisal Report, April 1982). The 1978-80
National Development Plan proposed a strategy based on the decree relating to the
1975 education reform which was geared to the development of primary and
technical education and vocational training. The primary education development
program comprised (a) provision of additional premises; (b) improvement and
expansion of initial and in-service teacher training; and (c) supply to the
schools of adapted teaching materials. In addition. the Government wished to
develop technical education and vocational training by improving science and
mathematics teaching in general secondary schools, and expanding the technical
and vocational schools. The Government's strategy aimed at enhancing education
quality and efficiency while continuing to widen access to primary education and
vocational/technical training. Finally, the Go'ernment sought to reduce the cost
of education and diversify its sources of financing.
1.02     Macroeconomic settinx.  The medium-term growth prospects justified
measured optimism since the National Development Plan looked to average real GNP
growth of 5 percent a year from 1981 to 1985. However, a number of sizable risks
were anticipated, particularly a slowing of exports and a worsening of the
financial situation of the state enterprises. To deal with this situation, the
Government adopted as major goals raising agricultural production and exports,
and upgrading manpower resources. Benin's active population, estimated in 1980
at 1.5 million (out of a total population of 3.4 million), was employed mainly
in the traditional sector (1.4 million); the workforce of the structured modern
sector totaled only 60,000.   Under-employment and unemployment were very
widespread in Benin, which at the same time faced a serious shortage of skilled
labor.  This shortage was due to the fact that, while the education system
trained administrative staff with a wide general education, it neglected
vocational training.



- 2 -
1.03      Relationhhips between Droiect Aoals. sectoral goals and macroeconomic
policy.  The goals of the Project were closely correlated vith those of the
sector and of macroeconomic policy as dascribed in paras. 1.01 and 1.02.
Quantitativa improvement of the training of primary school and lower secondary
school. teachers (the three ENle), *ogether with qualitative it --ement through
curriculum reform, strengtheniaig of the scientific and technical areas in the
ENIs, and the production of teaching materials for the schools were at the heart
of the policy for the sector. Moreover, regrouping teacher training within three
ENls, instead of six as before, was expected to help reduce the operating costs
of the education system.  Ultimately, the pupils were expected to receive a
better education, gearec ,re to the scientific and technical subjects, and to
be qualified to pursue vocational training, the technical content of which was
to help alleviate the scarcity of skilled labor that was limiting the developtuent
of the national economy.
C. Proiect Objectives and Description
1.04      The main objective of the Project was to improve the quality of primary
and lower secondary education by increasing the number of qualified teachers and
available textbooks for those education levels, with the object of helping, in
the longer run, to resolve the problems of access to education, of its external
efficiency (through better preparation for active life) and of its costs (by
reducing dropout and repeater rates). Finally, the increase in the number of
teachers in the vocational disciplines - agricultural and technical - was
intended to make it possible to train a labor force better prepared for the needs
of the labor market.
1.05      Proiect components
(a)   Primary and lower general secondary (level 1)
(i)   construction, furniture, equipment and about 6 months of
procurement specialists' services for three ENIs (teachers
colleges), at Lokossa, Natitingou and Parakou, for
training about 675 primary school teachers and 260 lover
secondary school teachers annually;
(ii)  establishment of training programs  for ENI students,
focussing on general disciplines at the primary level and
general and vocational disciplines at the lower secondary
level, including about 40 months of specialists' services;
and
(iii) about 14 fellowships, equivalent to about 168 months of
training abroad for the Beninese personnel responsible for
operation and maintenance of the EN1s, and about 6 months
of maintenance specialists' services.
(b)   Textbook Droduction and distribution
(i)   construction, furniture and equipment for a print shop at
Porto-Novo;



-3-
(ii)  construction,  furniture  and  equipment  for  a central
warehouse located near the print shop and six regional
warehouses at localities to be agreed upon with IDA;
(iii) establishment and start-up of a program for printing and
distributing about 470,000 textbooks and teaching guides
a year; and
(iv)  about 166 months of specialists' services and about three
fellowships, equivalent to 85 months of training abroad
for print shop staff.
(c)   Project management. evaluation and planning
(i)   strengthening of the Project Unit:  improvement of its
management, procurement and accounting procedures, supply
of  additional  furniture  and  equipment,   financial
assistance for start-up, about 162 months of specialista'
services and about five fellowships, equivalent to 60
months of training abroad in areas related to project
management;
(ii)  establishment of a system of monitoring and evaluation of
project  activities,   including  about  9  months  of
specialists' services; and
(iii) planning and preparation of future projects in the
education   sector,   including   about   12  months   of
specialists' servi_es.
D. Prolect Design and Orfanization
1.06      The Project was well designed in tnat the three components were
mutually complementary and responded to the Government's education development
requirements and strategies.  The projection of execution ove. five years (1982-
87) was reasonable.   However, in the case of the Textbooks Production and
Distribution component, more detailed analysis of the textbooks problem-from
manuscript design aLd drafting to use of the textbooks in class-and of the
existing publishing and distribution structures would have made it possible (a)
to define the content of essential tasks such as publishing and distributiont (b)
to assess the reliability of the agencies responsible for these functions; and
(c) to foresee in greater detail how these activities would turn out and thereby
avoid the tensions between the manuscript preparation and publishing agency-the
National Education Training and Research Institute (INFRE)--and the production
and distribution agency-the National Textboki Production Center (CNPMS).
1.07      The Project has the merit of being innovative in that, for the first
time,  (a)  the  training  of  primary  and  lower  secondary  teachers  is
professionalized (practical courses linked to theoretical instruction) and
rationalized (regrouping of the former six training centers int3 three
functionally designed and equipped ENIs), and (b) provision is included for



- 4 -
training technical and vocational secondary education teachers (at the Lokossa
ENI).  It also has the merit that it links teacher training closely to the
production and distribution of teaching materials. The coherence of the training
could have been improved by including systematic in-service training for the ENLI
teachers and also giving attention to that of administrators, inspectors,
teaching counsellors and primary and lower secondary school instructors (mattres
d'annlication).
E. Project Implementation
1.08      Project components (cf. para. 1.05 above) have been mostly implemented
with, however, the following most critical variances between planned and actual
implementation:
(a)   duration:  Credit closing was extended by one year and physical
completion was extended by up to three and a half years (cf.
Part III, Section 2 and Annex 1), owing to delays in (i)
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement; (ii) finalization of a
parallel cofinancing agreement; (iii) architectural studies;
(iv) awarding certain works, goods and services contractst (v)
execution of some of these contracts (particularly those for
civil worke on the Natitingou and Parakou ENls); and,
consequently, (vi) disbursement of the Credit Proceeds (cf. Part
III, Section 3).   Project Completion, which was originally
scheduled for December 1987, is expected to be achieved in June
1991.
(b) cost, which exceeded the appraisal estimate (by 22 percent in US
dollar equivalent and 45 percent in ClAF equivalent), the
difference being covered by the favorable variation in the
exchange rates and an increase (of 60 percent in US dollar
equivalent and 90 percent in ClAP equivalent) in Government
financing (cf. Part III. para. 5 and Annex 2).
(c) distribution of costs (i) among certain expenditure categories
(higher than projected for furniture, equipment, fellowships and
operating expenses; lower for local professional fees and
specialists' services); and (ii) among financing sources: IDA's
share declined from 55 to 46 percent, while that of the Beninese
Government rose from 13 to 17 percent, in US dollar equivalent
(Cf. Part III, Section 5).
1.09      (a)   The most serious time overrun, concerning construction of the
Natitingou and Parakou ENLIs (5-1/2 years instead of 2-1/2).
could have bean avoided if the Goverment had not insisted on
awarding both contracts tc. the same contractor, even though IDA
had expressed doubt about the contractor's ability to handle
both contre.cts and had recommended that it be awarded only one
of them.



-5-
(b)   The cost overrun, resulting mainly from inflation, would have
been reduced by a more timely implementation.
(c)   During project implementation, IDA agreed to the Government's
proposals to (i) reduce the number of fellowships for training
abroad and to increase local training (cf. Annex 4); (11)
include local upgrading of school directors and administrators
(cf. Annex 4); (iii) increase the financing of operating costs
to ensure basic operation of ENIs and project completiong and
(iv) reduce the number of staff-years of specialists' services
(cf. Annex 3).
1.10      Those Project risks that were foreseen at appraisal were accurately
identified, but others were missed, including the followings
(a)   the difficulty in recruiting a staff adequately trained, in
academic and teaching terms, for the teacher training role in
the ENIs;
(b)   the limitations of INFRE, which was not able to produce all the
manuscripts provided for (in retrospect, it might have been
better to have set up a private publishing house and given it
the opportunity to carry out manuscript preparation, publishing
and distribution);
(c)   delays in finalizing the Government-GTZ agreement;
(d) coordination problems between the two education ministries (MIMI
and MEMGTP, then HEMS); and
(e)   the deterioration of the financial situation.
F. Proiect Results
1.11      The  project  objectives  were  achieved  only  partially.         The
infrastructures and equipment exist, although the need for minor complements wee
identified by the last supervision mission at the Natitingou and Parakou ENIs,
for which the Government has sought the Swiss Development Cooperation' a agreement
to use the small uncommitted balance of their cofinancing Fund, (cf. Part III-5.C
thereafter); but the system does not operate as foreseen at appraisal. The goals
did not change during executiton except as regards textbook distribution policy
(cf. para. 1. 13).  The lack of adequate staff housing at affordable prices does
not alter the purposes of the ENIs, but it may hamper staff availability,
motivation and efficiency.
1.12      The ENIs are not meeting the target in terms of number of teachers
trained per year, owing to the cumulative effect of the following factors:
(a)   inadequate level of the crndU.dates presenting themselves for
entry examination;



-6-
(b)   the need to avoid taking teachers away from the classrooms for
this two to three year training period;
(c)   the availability to the teachers of a shorter way of obtaining
the Teaching Certificate (CAP); such as education by
correspondence, three weeks of seminars, and inspection of job
performance; and
(d)   inadequate number of candidateo for the technical, agricultural
and home economics disciplines.
1.13      Moreover, -...r quality of the training is affected by:
(a)   insA   -.e craining-academic and professional--of the teacher
t+-    t staff, who are not always able to integrate the
sv-%Aehi. :.-aching materials into the courses, and these courses
remain tco academic;
(b)   inadequate support staff for the assembly and maintenance of
these materials;
(c)   insufficiently rigorous equipment maintenance; and
(d)   difficulty in finding trained instructors to supervise the
teaching practice of the trainees.
1.14      The Project is nevertheless beginning to have an impact, since the
school inspectors consider the new ENI graduates to be of a higher academic and
professional caliber than the earlier graduates from the six provincial primary
teacher training colleges.   The new premises provide a functional physical
setting and, when the equipment installed becomes fully operational, will furnish
a favorable training environment.
1.15      Textbook production and distribution are behind schedule in terms of
both numbers of textbooks and pace of operation.   The shortfall in numbers
between projected and actual production is explained by the following factors:
(a)   the parallel cofinancing agreement between the Government and
GTZ was signed with a three to four year delay;
(b)   not enough manuscripts are available;
(c)   distribution is not operational,  owing to weakness of the
INERE/DPE (Provincial Education Directorates) network, the slow
start-up of the bookstores network, and the failure to make
teachers and parents adequately aware of the importance of using
the books;
(d)   the publishing policy of the MEMS, which has not used the
services of the CNPMS; and



-7-
(e)   the fall in parents' purchasing power due to Benin's economic
and social situation.
1.16      Of the 36 manuscripts to be furnished by INFRE. only 12 have been given
to the printer and only 4 printed. The others are in preparation or are with the
authors for correction. A total of seven titles have been produced, i.e. 26,200
books, of which 7,300 have been sold and 18.900 are still in stock. Only one
primary school textbook has been produced by INFRE and printed by CNPMS, because
the former MEMB (Ministry of Pre-Primary and Primary Education) preferred to
pursue its collaboration with the French publishers rather than entrust
manufacture of books to CNPMS. Sale to parents is therefore not yet in full
swing, despite the recent setting-up of a distribution network by the bookstores
(31 points of sale in the cities). The regional distribution network (INFRE/DPE)
is not functioning either. The planned six provincial warehouses have not been
built, since CNPMS has changed its distribution policy, giving preference to the
private bookstores network.
G.  Prolect Sustainabilitv
1.17      The net benefits already in place (premises, equipment, and textbook
production structure) should not only be sustained, but can be expected to
increase when:
(a)   under the education reform currently under study, more flexible
and operational agencies are set up and a start has been made on
more systematic training of all staff of the Ministry of
National Education (MEN), which has now absorbed the former HEMB
and MEMS; and
(b)   MEN has finalized and implemented its textbook production and
distribution policy and strategies.
1.18      The slowness in setting up the building and equipment maintenance
systems could have an eventual negative impact on the outcome of the Project.
The attention of the authorities should be drawn to this point to ensure that
conserving the existing assets through proper maintenance is given high priority
in national education policy. The reform of the education structure currently
planned should lead to the installation of a rational system and a limited, but
competent and motivated staff.   In the longer run the Project will be an
additional factor in facilitating the implementation of that reform.
H. IDA Performance
1.19      Strengths and weaknesses
(a)   While identification of the Project went forward correctly.
there was inadequate preparation of the education aspects. At
project preparation, there should have been more attention paid
by IDA to ensuring that the ENI curricula were geared more
closely to.the teachers' real needs and basing them less on a



university type of course. This would have avoided a training
course that was too long, too costly and insufficiently relevant
to the needs of the classroom.   Concerning the textbooks
component, it is not c3ear that the prior technical and economic
studies were sufficiently detailed and adequately controlled to
provide a basis for (i) choosing between the options of setting
up a printing facility and having the books printed abroad by
international tender; or (ii) tailoring the print shop capacity
to the size of the country, bearing in mind that it was
originally intended to serve national rather than regional
needs. At appraisal, risks other than those listed above (cf.
para. 10) were correctly identified, and certain measures were
appropriately included in the project; however, these measures
proved insufficient to prevent the foreseen risks linked to lack
of experience in training technical teachers, in operating a
full-scale textbook production unit, and in managing large.
widely dispersed civil works.
(b)   During implementation of the Project, the recommendation by IDA
to use the letters of credit procedure helped to sustain the
Government's efforts to restart and complete the construction of
two ENIs (Natitingou and Parakou). The supervision missions on
the education aspects, relevant as they were, were neither
sufficiently  frequent  and regular,  nor performed with the
necessary personnel continuity to redress the situation.
Technical and vocational-particularly agricultural-education
does not seem to have been monitored closely, otherwise the
appropriate conclusions would have been drawn from the poor
performance of the Level 2 Agricultural Vocational Institute
(CPA) and the failure to set up the three Level 1 CPAs. These
training streams needed to have been reorganized in the ENIs
accordingly (cf. para. 1.12 (d) above and Part 111-7. Covenant
reference 4.08).
1.20      Lessons
(a)   Local constraints should be fully analysed and reflected in
project design;
(b)   In implementing a project of this type, the approach to the
training agencies, curricula and methodologies needs to be
widened to consider the whole of the education system to ensure
that the areas of project intervention selected dovetail
properly with the system.
(c)   Closer and more coherent monitoring by IDA of the education
aspects during implementation would also be desirable, together
with IDA's active participation in preparation of decisions on
the Project, such as the formulation of training strategies and
preparation of curricula.



-9-
I. Borrower Performance
1.21      Strengths and weaknesses
(a)   Stable staffing at management level resulted in continuity
beneficial to the Project, and the financial audits recognized
that the Project had been properly managed. The Project Unit
monitored the architectural studies extremely well and later
energetically conducted parallel management of a defaulting
contractor to ensure completion of two ENIs.   However, the
dispersal of the personnel and other powers of the Project Unit
among several departments (Education - two Ministries -.
Public Works, and Planning) hampered coordination by the PU of
certain activities, particularly (i) technical supervision of
civil works for the two ENIs that fell behind schedule, and (ii)
supervision of equipment acceptance, which was not always
coordinated enough (for example, the mission noted the absence
of certain connection components of the audiowisual equipment
which is currently preventing assembly and utilization of the
closed circuit TV and the audio channels for training).
(b)   Another weakness was that there was insufficient innovation in
the design of teacher training in the ENIs. A training system
should have been proposed which, unlike the traditional
university course, was (i) better rooted in the pedagogical
needs at the classroom level, and (ii) organized in such a way
that a large number of teachers could benefit from short-
duration training and thereby contribute significantly to
improving the entire education system. Adequate account w.-, not
taken in formulating the ENI training strategies of the
country's true financial capabilities. This led to operating
bottlenecks (personnel resources in particular, though properly
deployed, fall short of needs in the present training
structure).
(c)   The Borrower did not honor all of the obligations entered into
in the Credit Agreement, mainly due to inadequate financial
resources   (qualitative  and  quantitative  improvement  of
agricultural education; adequate number of staff residences near
the ENls; and suitable resources for the operation and
maintenance of the ENIs).
(d)   Finally, the choice of the construction contractor for two ENIs
failed to take account of probable capacity constraints.
1.22      Lessons
(a)   The  creation  of  free  standing project units  outside  the
Government's normal administrative structure should in most
cases be avoided, as it is both difficult and, in the long run,



- 10 -
undesirable to grant such units appropriate authority to
coordinate project operations and handle contingencies vis-a-vis
the national administration.   Because they circumvent the
Government's normal decision making process, the creation of
separate ad hoc project units does not sufficiently contribute
to long term institutional development. Operational schemes for
project management must be designed to allow investments to be
managed  within   an  institution's   existing   or   revised
administrative structure, with appropriate autonomy granted to
the responsible units to enable them to carry out their project
management responsibilities. Furthermore, the experience of this
project, in which four ministries were involved, demonstrates
the importance of having some coordinating mechanism at an
appropriate high level so that problems of weak performance
could be dealt with.
(b)   Insufficient determination of whether the bidder whose bid has
been evaluated the lowest has the capability and resources
effectively to carry out the contract concerned, as provided for
in IDA procurement guidelines, may prove extremely costly.
J. Proiect RelationshiRs
1.23      Relations between IDA and the Borrower were positive throughout the
Project and their joint efforts enabled them to overcome the difficulties
encountered and in particular to resume and complete certain construction works.
1.24      Cooperation between IDA and the cofinancing agencies--Swiss Development
Cooperation and GTZ-was good in both Project preparation and implementation
(visits to headquarters or local field offices, announcement of missions,
communication of mission reports, exchange of correspondence and advice or
approval requests). The Swiss contribution was administered by IDA, as agreed.
K. Contracted Services
1.25      Architectural services. The system of association with an experienced
consultant instituted for the design of the first ENI provided an opportunity for
young Beninese architects to receive advanced training before assuming
responsibility for the other construction designs under the Project, at the cost
of doubling the projected time needed for the ENI studies.   The fact that
designing the printing facility took nearly five times as long as planned was due
mainly to the time taken to work up the agreement with GTZ, which moreover had
its own consultants supervise finalization of the architectural studies and the
works. Apart from a few technical details, the architectural design work was
correctly carried out.
1.26      Construction  contractors.    Of  the  contractors  retained  after
international prequalification, only the one responsible for the Natitingou and
Parakou ENIs failed to perform its contract regularly. apparently owing to
management difficulties. The substantial delay led the Administration to ensure



- 11 -
first restarting of these two project items by undertaking parallel management
of the defaulting contractor, then their completion on force account, at the end
of the Project.
1.27      Equipment and furniture suDoliers.  Fol'lowing international or local
competitive bidding, or comparison of at least three price quotations, as agreed,
goods were generally delivered in conformity with the contractual specifications
and delivery dates.
1.28      Technical assistance  (specialists'  services  and training).   The
technical assistance specialists who participated in the preparation and
implementation of the Project cooperated properly with the Borrower and made
positive  contributions.    It  is regrettable  that  the  technical  education
specialist's services provided for helping develop curricula and start-up teacher
training at ENI, Lokossa (30 months) was not used, and that the pedagogical
adviser was not involved at the time of preparation of the curricula and teaching
strategy (perhaps because of excessive confidence on the part of the government
authorities in the schemes drawn up; cf. also Part III, Section 7, Reference to
Covenawnt 4.01 (e)).
L. Prolect Documentation and Data
1.29      Overall, the legal agreements (cf. Part III - 7) were appropriate,
particularly those that were only partly respected, such as (a) availability of
housing near the ENIs (the inadequacy of which is effectively hampering the
current operation of the ENIs, even though they are not yet operating at full
capacity); (b) expansion and upgrading of agricultural training (the weakness of
which is one of the causes of the difficulties in developing the agriculture
program at the Lokossa ENI); and (c) operation and maintenance (which are only
partially assured for the ENIs). On the other hand, it was perhaps unrealistic
to envisage the transfer--from the provincial ENIs, after they were closed, to
the new ENIs--of unsuitable curricula, inadequately qualified staff and obsolete
equipment (a transfer that was in the event minimal). Moreover, it would have
been better if IDA had not waited until 1984 to draw the Government's attention
to discrepancies between the French translation of the Credit Agreement, which
it was using, and the English (and officially valid) text, even if no serious
misunderstanding appears to have resulted.
1.30      rhe Appraisal Report constituted a useful framework for monitoring
implementation of the Project. However, the sharp reduction in the number of
annexes and the difficulty in reading some of them (particularly the summary of
specialist services) sometimes necessitated, for both the PU and IDA, longer
research within the "working papers" and other preparation documentation.
1.31      The mission obtained most of the data required for preparation of the
Project Completion Report from the Project Unit, the ENI principals' offices, and
CNPMS management. Data collection, however, was sometimes long and difficult; it
is therefore recommended that properly organized and up to date files be
maintained in the future.



- 13 -
PART II. REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(1Naiies of Contractors, Specialists and IDA Staff have been deleted by IDA)
A.  Introduction
2.01      This report examines the execution of the Second Education Project. the
purpose of which was to build and equip three Teachers Colleges (ENls) at
Lokossa, Parakou and Natitingou and a teaching materials printing facility at
Porto-Novo.
2.02      The cost of the Project. CFAP 9,900 million, was financed jointly as
follow8s
CFAF Million
Teachers Colleges
IDA Credit                             5,075
Swiss Governemnt Grant                 1.331
Benin                                  1,919
Teaching Materials Printing
Facility
FIG Government Grant                   1,575
9.900
.....
2.03      Management of the Sw'ss contribution was entrusted to IDA.
2.04      The agreement between Benin and IDA was signed on June 25, 1982.  It
was ratified by Decree no. 82-266 of August 6, 1982 and published in the Official
Gazette (Journal Officiel) of the People's Republic of Benin on August 8, 1982.
2.05      The convention between Benin and the Swiss Confederation was signed on
August 1, 1982.
2.06      The arrangement between Benin and the Federal Republic of Germany was
entered into in February 1986.
2.07      Closure of the IDA credit and the Swiss contribution took place on June
30, 1989, i.e. one year after the originally scheduled date.
2.08      The amounts were fully committed.  The Project was completed overall
12 months late.



- 14 -
2.09      The Teachers Colleges were designed to train primary school teachers
and lower general and technical secondary education teachers.
2.10      The basic design is that of professionalized schools devoted primarily
to initial training and in-service training.
2.11      Recruitment level initially adopted:
(a)   primary teachers:          BEPC (lower secondary school
certificate) + 1 year of JIR
(b)   secondary teachers:        BAC (upper secondary school
certificate) + competition
2.12      Recruitment level adopted on opening of the schools:
(a)   asst. primary teachers:   BEPC + average 4 yearsservice
(b)   primary teachers:          BAC  + average 4 years service
(c)   secondary teachers:        BAC  + average 4 years service
2.13      Duration of training:
(a)   primary teachers:          1 year academic + 1 year practical
training
(b)   asst. primary teachers:   2 years academic + 1 year practical
training
(c)   secondary teachers:        2 years academic + 1 year practical
training
2.14      Salient facts. The Project was based on the conclusions drawn from all
the studies geared to implementation of Education Reform in the People's Republic
of Benin.
2.15      These studies demonstrated that the expected changes in the new
education system could not come to pass without furnishing training, providing
qualified teachers, and making high-quality textbooks available to students and
teachers cheaply and in sufficient quantity.
2.16      The Project was dssigned to meet basic and urgent needs of the
education sector, characterized by a scarcity of qualified teachers. It would
at the same time enhance the impact of the efforts accomplished by the Government
and all users of the education system to help improve the design of coherent
education policies and strategies.
2.17      The Credit became effective on March 17, 1983.  It was closed on June
30. 1989, following one postponement of the Closing Date. This delay made it
possible to execute certain supplemental works recognized as essential to optimum
completion of the ENIs.



- 15 -
2.18      The credit lines were distributed as follows:
Category  Description                    IDA +         Benin
Swiss Gvt.
1      Civil Works                    662           34Z
2      Equipment and Furniture        1002           -
3      Feas of Local Experts          1002           -
4      Technical Assistance           1002           -
5      Training Fellowships           1002           -
6      Project Management              802          202
2.19      The Project was fully implemented, in conformity with the Credit
Agreement, without exceeding the estimated total of SDR 12.2 million.
2.20      Although the physical elements were completed 12 months late, they
conform to the final designs for each Project component. All cost overruns were
absorbed, thanks to the continuous rise in the value of the SDR in relation to
the CFA franc.
2.21      The civil works component accounted for the greater part of the delay
and led to postponement of the Closing Date of the IDA credit and Swiss
contribution.
Execution Delays in Relation to Contracts
iNI        Contract      Contractor's       Delay
Deadline    Execution Tlime
Likossa      18 months       21 months      3 months
Parakou      18 months       59 months      41 months
in Oct. 1989
Natitingou    16 months       60 months      44 months
in Oct. 1989
2.22      Construction of the Lokossa ENI by one contractor presented no major
problems. However, the same cannot be said of the Parakou and Natitingou ENIe.
The contractor did not give full satisfaction, for organizational reasons
internal to the firm. Despite all the offorts made by the Project Management and
the Administration to help the firm, enormous difficulties had to be overcome.
The contractor found it extremely difficult to adjust to a rational work tempo.



- 16 -
2.23      Anxious  to  avoid  cancellation  of  the  contract,  the  cost  and
repercussions of which would be extremely heavy, the Administration called on the
firm to honor its comitments. Hundreds of meetings of every kind were hold in
an effort to avoid the worst. Despite all this, and despite all its promises,
unacceptable delays transpired. Penalties were applied in order to motivate the
contractor, but to no avail.
2.24      Despite all this, the Administration was compelled to relieve the firm
of responsibility for the ENI works and have them completed on force account
supervised by the Parakou and Natitingou Provincial Public Works Directorate.
2.25      At a higher level, the firm's unacceptable defaults compelled the
Government to take draconian measures concerning it.
2.26      This firm is no longer authorized to bid on any civil works in Benin
until further notice.
2.27      During execution of the Project all the civil works took place under
the supervision of the Director, Urban Planning and Housing (Ministry of Public
Works and Transportation), Deputy Director of the Project.
2.28      The works to be completed on supervised force account concerns
(a)   a few small works at Natitingou;
(b)   the supplementary works at Parakou and Natitingou.
2.29      The Administration regards these works as very important for optimum
completion of the ENIs.
2.30      Upon  provisional  acceptance,  despite  the  country's  economic
difficulties, the Government opened the three ENTs. The first class graduated
from the Parakou and Natitingou ENIs in 1989.
2.31      The economic difficulties, which have thrown the education sector out
of -ear, compelled the Lokossa ENI Administration to defer formation of the first
class.
B. Protect Prenaration
2.32      The Project was IDA's first operation of this size in the formal
education sector in Benin.
2.33      In February 1980,  the Government of Benin requested World Bank
financial assistance in setting up infrastructures for training teaching staff
in the following localitiess
-     Natitingou
-     Parakou
-     Lokossa



- 17 -
2.34      Each of the three ENIs was meant to specialize in a precise type of
training:
llatitingous    training of secondary school humanities teachers and
primary school teachers;
Parakout       training of secondary  school science teachers and
assistant primary teachers;
Lokossa:       training  of  secondary  school  technical,  science,
humanities, home economics, agriculture teachers and
assistant primary school teachers.
2.35      The appraisal mission arrived in 1982.
2.36      The Government of the People's Republic of Benin was the Borrower. The
former MEMGPT, now HEMS, was the Project Principal (Matre d'Ouvraae) and the
former MTPCH, now MET, the Project Executing Agency (Mattre d'Oeuvre).
2.37      Because of the lack of experience and precedents in the area of school
infrastructure construction, IDA asked that the architectural designs be prepared
by foreign experts. An agreement was entered into between the Government and
IDA. Preparation of the architectural dossiers was entrusted as followst
-     Natitingou ENI       one Beninese firm
-     Parakou ENI          one Beninese film
-     Lokossa ENI          four firms (of which three Beninese)
2.38      Technical coordination of the Project was entrusted to a Unesco
architect, working in collaboration with Ministry of Public Works staff.
2.39      Proiect monitoring and supervision
(a)   At national level.  A unit was set up with responsibility for
monitoring and directing the execution of the Project.
The Director, assisted by Beninese and expatriate staff,
supervised all activities under the Project.
The Project Unit comprised:
-   a Director, representing the HEMS;
-   a Deputy Director, representing the MET;
-   a Deputy Director, representing the MPS;
-   a French Technical Assistant, assistant to the Director;
-   an accountant;
-   an Assistant Architect/Coordinator, representing the MET;
-   three worksite supervisors;
-   a representative of the CAM ;
-   a Unesco works coordinating Architect.



- 18 -
(b)   At local level.   At the time of the worksite visits, the
following were present in each of the towns where Teachers
Colleges (ENIs) were to be located:
-   a representative of the DPET
-   a representative of the DPE
-   a representative of the Architect
-   a representative of the Contractor
2.40      The Project Unit, at the national level, and the monitoring units, at
the local level, were able to call on the expert assistance of all authorities,
as and when the need arose.
C. Proiect Implementation
2.41      The Project Unit, enlarged to include all the Beninese sources of
expertise, was responsible for directing and coordinating execution of all the
Project components.
2.42      Thus, over seven years the various tasks were carried out for:
(a)   Primarl  and secondary education
-   construction and equipment for the 3 ENIs;
-   specialized services of Beninese and foreign experts;
-   further-training   fellowships   for  training   trainers,
maintenance technicians and the accountant.
(b)   Teaching materials Drinting facility
-   construction and equipment of the print shop;
-   preparation of manuscripts;
-   development of a strategy of distribution of the textbooks
produced.
(c)   Proiect Manaftement.   This included specialized services for
monitoring operating costs, project evaluation, and planning
future projects.
2.43      The request addressed to IDA was carefully prepared in light of the
socioeconomic environment of that time. There was total participation by all the
ministries involved in the execution of the Project, and this facilitated the
following tasks:
(a)   Selection of architects.  Selection of the architects posed a
few problems because of certain sensitivities. The combinations
proposed by the Government were ac:epted by IDA and this made it
possible to obtain good results.
(b)   Architectural designs. The designs produced benefitted from two
sources of expertise: IDA and Unesco. They were submitted to
IDA for its opinion and approval at each stage.



- 19 -
(c)   Selection of contractors.  The selection of contractors took
place in conformity with the regulations in effect in Benin.
During the selection process the contractors' performances were
to be a decisive criterion; unfortunately, however, having
regard to the probable costs of the contracts to be concluded
between them and the Government, the cumulative values of the
projects exec'ited by each carried too much weight in the final
selection.
(d)   Procurement. All the bidding documentation was submitted to the
Bank for examination.   The contracts were awarded after the
Credit became effective. The IDA rules governing procurement
were respected.
(e)   Priority works undertaken
- soil analysis;
- site viabilization;
- recruitment of technical assistants and consultants;
- installation of the accounting system;
- training of the accountant.
(f)   Studies undertaken
- sketches;
- preliminary project;
- project;
- final designs.
(g)   Furniture and equipment
(i)  Furniture.     The  -trategy  of  having  the  furniture
manufactured by local enterprises was accepted by the
Government and IDA.
The results obtained, using local materials yere
satisfactory, and t.~ s practice should be encouraged
elsewhere.
(ii) Ecuinment. The consult;.uits and local experts did not do a
particularly good job of advance matching of the list of
equipment to the profilas of the teachers to be trained in
the ENIs.   The objections of IDA were not very well
understood at that time.The result was a very exhaustive
list of equipment, the cost of which remained high.
Some of the ENIs, Lokossa in particular, today possess
equipment items that have not yet been put i-Fo service.
In the long term this equipment will be applied to initial
and in-service training.



- 20 -
D. Problems
2.44      Lokossa.  The civil works were started at Lokossa in November 1984 and
completed on August 27, 1986. They were executed in a proper manner and on the
whole have given satisfaction. Apart from the open-air theater, which has been
entirely transformed, the project was s3upplemented by a few additional works that
were proposed in order to round out completion of the school.
2.45      Natitingou and Parakou.   These two projects fell behind schedule,
Natitingou by about 44 months and Parakou by 41 months. The poor performance of
the awardee of the two contracts contributed to the accumulation of this delay.
2.46      Penalties were applied to the contractor but were lifted owing to
financial constraints, which could ultimately have brought the contractor to a
standstill. The sole object of this decision, which was quite a difficult one
for the Administration, was to help the contractor develop normally and at the
same time salvage the various advance payments made.
2.47      Despite the facilities of every kind extended to the contractor, the
Administration was compelled to suspend the civil works on the Natitingou and
Parakou projects.
2.48      The most urgent supplementary works and the remainder of the works
covered by the original contracts were entrusted to the Natitingou and Parakou
DPETs.
2.49      Teaching materials print shop.  The real problem here concerns the
difficulties encountered in preparing manuscripts.
E. Proiect Financing
2.50      The total cost of the Project, excluding taxes, was estimated at
US$25,644,000, financed as follows: US$14,056,000 by IDA, US$3,517,000 by
Switzerland and US$3,356,000 by the Government of Benin to cover all the
components except construction and equipment of the printing facility, which was
borne entirely by the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ), at an estimated cost of
US$4,715,000.
2.51      The foreign exchange costs were paid by IDA.  The Beninese Government
bore up to 201 of local currency costs of project management and 341 of those of
the civil works for the Teachers Colleges.
2.52      These distributions, though fairly modest, represented a heavy drain
on the Government's fund for financing its contribution to externally financed
projects ("Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, CAM"), whose resources were at times
very tight.
2.53      Owing to the sharp rise in the value of the dollar in relation to the
CFA franc (the exchange rate rose from CFAP 270 to CFAF 400 during the execution



- 21 -
period) the actual cost of the Project at the time of completion had increased
by 32X.
2.54      This appreciation of the dollar was beneficial to the Project as a
whole. In particular, it enabled overruns in the civil works (original contracts
and amendments). equipment, and first year operation of the ENIs to be covered.
2.55      The  long  disbursement  delays  noted  at  the  start  of  Project
implementation were progressively reduced-a very positive development.
P. Status of Credit Agreement Covenants
2.56      All the main provisions of the Agreement were duly honored. Those that
could not be complied with, owing to the Government's financial difficulties, had
no negative impact on execution of the Project.
2.57      As an example: the Government had committed itself to provide teachers'
housing, but was unable to do so during the execution period for lack of money.
2.58      The main provisions complied with concerned the following:
-     installation of an accounting system;
-     auditing of the accounts;
-     closing of the old Provincial Primary Teacher Training Schools;
-     training of 4rainers (the Government attached importance to
this);
-     full-time utilization of the personnel assigned to the Project
Unit.
G. Im_lementation Timetable and Credit Management
2.59      Postponement of the Closing Date was necessary not only to make up the
backlog built up by the defaulting contractor but also to allow the construction
of certain supplementary works and the installation of simple equipment which the
teachers are likely to encounter in the posts to which they are assigned.
2.60      It also allowed the works supervisors to receive training, the cost of
which could be committed before closing the credit.
2.61      The Credit Agreement was amended twice:
-     the first amendment concerned disbursement percentages;
-     the second concerned the Closing Date.
2.62      Despite the delay built up over the course of the civil works, the
authorities have opened the establishments.
H. Borrower and IDA Performance
2.63      In the case of this specific Project, the Government's performance in
implementing the Project was very encouraging, despite a few cases of
bureaucratic slowness.



- 22 -
2.64      In comparison with the implementation of other similar or smaller
projects, the Government gave constant attention to the following objectives:
-     construction of ENI.;
-     installation of necessary equipment and furniture;
-     personnel training;
-     opening the schools and making them operational.
2.65      All these tasks were duly performed. The authorities were able to form
the first class at Natitingou and Parakou.
2.66      The second class was recruited and is preparing to enter the ENIs.
2.67      Rigorous monitoring,  supervised by the Ministry authorities, and
regular visits by IDA missions made it possible to achieve these results.
2.68      The Project benefitted from supervision by and the advice of an IDA
architect.
2.69      IDA performance gave great satisfaction to all parties involved.
2.70      The performance of the other consultants, both private and government,
was also greatly appreciated.
I. Conclusions and Lessons
2.71      The major physical elements of the Project were executed satisfactorily
despite some delays and a cost overrun, which was fully absorbed thanks to the
fluctuation in the exchange rate.
2.72      Selection of contractors of adequate and similar capacity would have
yielded more satisfactory results.
2.73      Considering the scale of the Project, the management unit did not
always enjoy all the authority necessary for its execution.
2.74      Execution of the Project was facilitated by the relative autonomy of
the Project Unit; however, this autonomy always created difficulties vis-a-vis
the administrative hierarchy.
2.75      Care should be taken in future projects to specify clearly the autonomy
accorded to the Project authorities for the proper performance of their tasks.
2.76      As  implementation of the Project  advanced,  the availability of
Government financing declined. In future, this question should be settled in
precise terms before committing the Government authority in a project.
2.77      We suggest that future education projects should be entrusted to
specialized, dynamic and experienced Beninese professionals.



- 23 -
2.78      For the preparation of the Third Education Project, the Government
should define the broad orientations in an administrative framework, with a local
unit, comprising the professionals mentioned above (para. 2.39) that would be
responsible for the entire implementation of the Project.
Porto-Novo, November 29. 1989



- 25 -
PART III. STATISTICAL lfwATiHN
1. Related IOA Credits
Title am Year                            KMp=s                              Status mg COMINaS
of DpwrcvI
Cr. 58-W                1. Novor dmiqomn (Irdstrial motor  It Credit in clou cn 124 2.
First Edmtim  Propot   au  offIce nmms.                         lb   letiOn reIort dtod 101/U
(1An  EtlEn             2. ReWnizatlm and atrngtming of the  Indiated flat remits b        lned wrn
ud Training Projewt)    rationa training program for the  ial   dispolnting, minly do to ti fr"ur
1975                    YO.                                     politloal diwig , administratlve ad
3. Prepratin of a fol io*4v projewt an    bxteary ctrints ad to seval
edzatlcn .or training.                 prbim  co rning tralning, mirvisisn
and tednical atiste.
Cr. 2M4EN               Flellng of u. and    d n    eolrt"     T1  credit  es efftiv cn //90.
Str,tura  Jd jdint      during tm ewtiun of the natioal         Mxt of thu rewired onditlns for
Credit (SAC)            eclus-o strulxi adjusthit prog ra       the  ies oth fus I   tran1a oft fl
1989                    (ESD1). The objectives warning tM       SC me  fulfilled at th tin of ft
edmation/training sector ar:           Onuieticn Miicn (5  aldoummalre
1. Catimatim of the dotailed revie     of the 8/-47A90 Spervieln
of wrioritles 1 forwlatim of a sectorml Mlien).
sratW and action plan.                lh  Natiami  mltee for EW e1IidW
-   2. foVarition Nd adoption of a pim      a OM H   fm    suocuttt  illn dwp
to iwmrem tim Pwpls/teedr ratio.       of the eimctinAvraining stor.
-          3. eterminrtIon of bjective for aomit  A uctaral stay Is being cried sVt
ramiary related e  ge u1a              since Hey 1989 uar a DW
of the minin. amnm  aI locad for       project to help the lvrmnt fowiat a
primry eduation.                        seitoral policy, a mdlia tem Strateg Od
4. Oealpmnt ard adwtion of a prgi      an action Progrm In vim of a rued
to reo f  rM."  of hiur uOation    table of "Mms to tu  pI=o by a   1191.
ularehips uMlI as te dthe
aocated to iopriority speializati'.
Cr.2031uu               lrw Im  orSpnizatln an  _g Int of  Tm Credit Agreemnt               IvtaW
ODeloput of Multh       th SIth stn, I1ceMe the oflolw   sn 1/10           l Mmt activities
Svls Pprojet            of flmmial reuren asi locain fr. the  plumd dirln ti  project ImIdi
1981                    phI c motor ard reinfraed m    w1   tohn  Apurep (10/7-16U) a
WaN.   m  quality of the bsic heIth - uwriulng4  delap dn mIniy to
si"i   ba  prIeMitw ad ourtiv)         tim me.nmio, f Wmisl " fmlal
011olally In the nral uar    (Atera,  probim  of the  my" At thm
m  ard Atintic Province). i Promjt   rmt politiali dMang
provids pmrtlarly for abinisrtlw
ad teuical training Of the pru-1l
amd  aid for th deist of a
Iulth sdtlm  pro0 aimd  at th
nrai pbllc.



- 26 -
2. Project Timetable
Date Planned   Date Revised    Date Actual
identification mission       9/79 (1)                       1015-17179
Preparation Mission          4180 (1)                       1112-217180
Pre-appraisal Mission        7180 (2)                       6129-717180
Appraisal Mission           10/80 (2)        12180 (3)       5/5-15/81
Credit Negotiations           4181 (2)       12/81 (4)      2/16-19/82
Board Approval                7/81 (2)        2/82 (4)        5/13182
Credit Signature                                              6/25/82
Credit Effectiveness        10/25/82          1131183         3/17/83
Credit Closing                6/30/88         6/30189         6/30/89
Final Disbursement           6130/88         12131189         2126190
Sourcess (1)- 3112/79 *Project Brief (PB); (2) 2121180 PBs
(3) 6/9/80 'Back-to-office Reports; (4) 5/8/81 PB.
Appraisal was delayed by the queat for cofinancing, the definition
of training programs, the establishment of the Project Uhit,
the relocation of 2 of the 3 Teachers Colleges (EN!.), and the
recruitment of the archlitects (contracts signed in January
and March 1981).
Negotiations were delayed pending the satisfaction of conditions
such ass architectural preliminary studies: ezpansion program for
the Agricultural Vocational Institute (CPA) at Sekou and development
of three new ClAss draft decres granting autonomy of management
to the Printing Unlts and recruitment of technical assistance
for the Project Ult.
Effectivness  ase delayed by the issuance of the Govermaent's
legal opinion (issued on 1115182) and the signature of the Grant
Agreement with GTZ (cofinancier); this last coandltion was finally
waived.



- 27 -
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in millions of US$)
IDA Fiscal Year            7/1/1982-
6/30/1983    1984  1985  1986  19    1988  1989  1990
Appraisal Estimate            1.2        3.2   7.2   9.4  12.2  14.0
Actual                         .9        1.2   3.0   7.8  10.8  12.5  13.4  14.2
Actual as Z
Estimate                   75          38    42    83   89    89    96   101
Date of Final Disbursement: 2/26190 (value date: 3/5/90)
Time lise showing planned and actual disbursement scheduless
711
10,0
9
3 1
4. Proiect Imolementation
Indicators                               Aloraisal Estimate                 Actual
Opening of ENls                           10/85                              12187    (1)
Training of ENIs' Teachers (end)           9/85                            6/86-10188 (2)
Training of ENIs' Maintenance
Personnel (end)                         12/84                               6/90    (3)
Textbook Production (start)                1/84                               2188    (4
Training of Project
Personnel (end)                          12186                               6/91    (5)
(1)   Delay due to difficulty in obtatinig satisfactory bidding documents ad due Co tae maerlial
problem encountered by the construction firm at Hatitingou end Parakon.
(2)   Delayed by the development of the training progrems ond Jby the selection of feloUanq p
recipients.
(3)   Delayed by the need to maintain che selected technicians (construction site supervisors) on
each site until its completion.
(4)   Delay due to difficulties in finalising the BensJeus-CTZ Grant Agreement aad lasufficieat
capacity of manuscript production.
(S)   Delaye4 by the lmpossibility of replacing the local Accountant during aa *baece on
fellowship; his upgrading abroad (1-6191) was prefinanced by the IDA Credit under tha s
contract as that concerning the above meationed Mainten anc Personn-l.
U.S. A detailed comparative implemencation tlmetable is enned.



- 28 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financinx
A. Proiect Costs (Net of taxes)
Amounts in thousands of USS             Amounts in millions of ClAP
Categorl              Appraisal        Actual        Diff.    A2Draisal    Actual         Diff.
Civil works        (1) 14,218          17,853        +252        3,839        5,734       +49Z
Furniture &        (2)  4,177           7,186        +722        1,127        2,308      +105Z
Equipment
Local Fees               1,210             956       -21Z           327         307         -6S
Consultants        (3)  4,695           2,840        -40X        1,267          912       -282
& T.A.
Fellowships        (4)     605             797       +32Z           164         256       +56Z
Operating Costs(s)         739          1,582        +1142          200         508      +154Z
------------------------------------------__---------------------
Total                  25,644         31,214         +222        6,924       10,025       +45X
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Average exchange rate for the Credit disbursement period (5/7/83-315/90):
US$ 1 - CFAP 321.17
Appraisal exchange rate: US$ 1 - CFAP 270
(1)   The buildings constructed respected surface areas indicated in the initial schedule but
invitations to bid were delayed by about 2 years, and a more favorable exchange rate permitted
the carrying out of external improvements and other useful works (sports fields, traditional
kitchens, etc.) planned as alternatives, and to supplement the national financing for certain
installations (water towers and electric transformers).
(2)   The impact of the delay vas compounded with the necessary adaptation to the development of new
training programs.
(3)   and (4) See annexed comparative tables.
CS)   Implementation of the project required two to three additional years; also, the transfer to
Cotonou of the responsible Ministry and the localization there of other concerned
administrative departments, as well as parallel management by the PU of a faltering firm on
the mexre remote construction sites, increased transportation, mission and communication costs.
Moreover, it was necessary to supplement the national contribution to the operation of the
ENlIs to a larger extent than expected.
B. Proiect Financing
(in 000 of US$, net of taxes)
Source                        ADpraisal Estimate                Actual           Difference
IDA                           14,056       (552)            14,216(1)(462)           + 12
Swiss Contribution (2)    3,517            (142)             3,554    (lZ)          + 12
GTZ Grant (3)                  4,715       (182)             8,059    (262)          +71Z
Benin Government               3,356       (132)             5,385    (172)          +602
--------------------------------------------------------
Total                         25,644       (1002)           31,214   (1002)          +222
--------------------------------------------------------
(1)   Calculated from the detailed computer print-out of all disbursements from this Credit Account.
This figure differs from the figure of 14.08 million given in the statement of Develosmnt
Credilts. Efforts to ascertain the basis for the total of 14.08 have been fruitless.
(2)   Joint cofinancing administered by IDA, equivalent to +25X of all amounts financed by the IDA
Credit (in other words in the rates 80:20), up to a limit of SwF 7 million.
(2)   Parallel cofinancing of the entire "Prcduction and Distribution of Textbooks" component.



- 29 -
C. Wlthdrawal of the Proess of the IOA Credit and of tho Swiss Contribution
IDA Credit (SOR)        Swiss Contribution (SwF)
Category      Allocated as                 Allocated as                  X financed
at Credit     OIsbursed     at Credit      Dlsbursed
Signature                   Signature                        (1)
1. CIvIl works      5,580,000    6,050,0596.8   3,200,000                     50 then U
2. Furniture and    1,540.000    3,333,296.66    68JO000                     80 then 100
equipment
3. Local Fees         490,000      407,385.06      280,000                   60 then 100
4. Consultants' an  1,400,000      624,208.59      600,000         (2)           100
specialists
5. Fellowships        360,000      508,698.50      200,000                       100
f. Operating costs    110,000      418,059.79       60,000                        s0
7. PPF                8900000      658,351.41        -              -
8. Unallocated      1,840,000                    1,580,000
12,200,000   12,200,000.00   7,000,000    6,725,737.20
(1) AMnded 1/31/84
(2) Breakdown by cateory not available



- 30 -
6. Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal          Estimated at       Estimated at
Indicators                      Estimate           Closina Date       Full Develp,.
Student capacity of the
three new ENIs                  1,195              1,195             1,195
Number of ENIs' graduates
per year                          935                445 (1)           935
- Primary School Teachers         675                240 (2)           675
and Assistants
- Lower Secondary School
Teachers                       260                205               260
of which
- general education         (189)              (187)             (190)
- technical education        (39)                (5)              (39)
- agricultural training    (20)                  (3)              (20)
- home economics             (12)               (10)              (12)
Establishment of a Printing Unit 12/31/82           12/11/82
Annual production of textbooks
for Primary and Lower Secondary
Schools                           470,000 (3)      26,200 (3)        800,000 (3)
Average sales price per book       US$ 1.50         US$ 2.05 (4)      US$ 1.45 (4)
Sales price per set of books
for the first grade               US$ 3.00     not available (5)   US$ 1.80 (4)
Sales price per set of books
for the final grade of Lower
Secondary Schools                 US$ 10.50    not available (5)  US$ 13.50 (4)
Textbook storage capacity        1 central          1 central         1 central
warehouse +        warehouse (6)    warehouse
6 regional
warehouses
Distribution system              INFRE/DPE          INFRE + book-    Selling by
network            shops             Publisher (7)
or by CNPMS
directly in
the schools;
bookshops.



- 31 -
(1) These are assistant primary teachers and assistant lower secondary teachers
(at present on practical training) who will graduate from the ENIs at the
end of this academic year after three years of training. This year, 72
primary teachers graduated after only two years of training.
(2) Of which 15 primary teachers and 225 assistant primary teachers.
(3) Excluding the production of notebooks, of secondary textbooks and precis on
behalf of "Editions du Flamboyant" (semi-private publishing firm), and of
miscellaneous items for private clients.
(4) Price for 1990 deflated by about 1.8 for comparison with Appraisal
estimates, and at appraisal exchange rate of US$ 1 - CFAP 270.
(5) No data available as no complete set has been published yet.
(6)  The Government and GTZ have decided not to build the regional warehouses as
they resolved to emphasize private distribution.
(7) In case the Government chooses the option of having the distribution made
by a private publisher.
B. Studies
Purpose as Defined
at A&graisal -                 Status                    Impact of Study
Preparation of a                (a) General speci-       (a) Discussions with
maintenance program            fications for sub-        the architects and
for project                    sequent maintenance       subsequent adjustment
institutions                   of infrastructures        during architectural
prepared for each        design work.
institution by a
French specialist
(11/82).
(b) Needs concern-       (b) Training in
ing maintenance spe-    maintenance (11/89-
cialists for the ENlIs   6/90) at CUCES, Nancy
listed and commented    (France) of the three
upon by a French spe-   site supervisors
cialist (12/83).         before their
posting to their
respective ENI.
Evaluation of the              "Provision of text-       Contribution to (a)
use and impact of the          books for the school    the development of
educational materials          system in Benint          a textbook national
produced under the             proposals for the         policy; (b) a better
project.                       creation of an            definition of publishing/
acquisition and          production/distribution
distribution system"    functions;and (c)orga-
prepared at the          nization and financing
request of GTZ by two   of CNPMS to optimize
expatriate specia-       production.
lists (11/89).



- 32 -
7. Status of Credit Aareement Covenants
Soctlgu           Subiect                  Status
2.03              Closing Date             Extended on 6/17/88 from 6/30/88 to
6/30/89.
3.01              Withdrawals of           Percentage financed amended (1/31/84).
Credit Proceeds as      Reallocation between categories
per Schedule I of       agreed (11/3/87).
Credit Agreement.
3.08              Procurement              Agreed procedures applied.
4.01 (a)          Diligent and             Economic difficulties restricted the
efficient project       provision of necessary resources.
execution.
4.01 (b)          Revolving fund           Increased from CFAF 5 million to 8.5
million (5/84).
4.01 (c) and      Personnel and            The Project Unit was staffed and
5d)             powers of the            empowered as specified in the
Project Unit            Credit Agreement; however, the
dispersion of personnel between
Porto-Novo and Cotonou and the
division of powers among several
departments hampered the coordination
and control of certain project
activities and made the operation
of the Project Unit more expensive
than foreseen.
4.01 (e)          Consultants' and         Those services that were provided were
Specialists'            satisfactory but the Technical Educa-
Services                tion, Evaluation and Planning Spe-
cialists were not recruited, mainly
due to delays in project iplementa-
tion, insufficient number of technical
education trainees, and to a re-
allocation of Credit proceeds to allow
for training of more ENI teachers and
for basic operation of the ENls;
evaluation of the textbook component
of the project was financed by G T Z
(cf. 4.03-e).
4.03 (d)          Project Unit             Submitted on 12/6/89
Completion Report        (of. Part II).



- 33 -
4.03 (e)          Evaluation of the        The delays experienced by this
textbook production     component did not permit the
component (not          finalization of the study (financed
later than              by GTZ) until 11/89 (given to
12/31/86)               the Completion Mission on 4/90).
4.05              Housing for ENI          Notwithstanding commitments made by
staff                   the Government (letter dated 6/15/84)
the personnel of the ENIs have
difficulties in finding satisfactory
housing (especially at Lokossa).
4.06 (a)          Adequate qualifi-        Good qualifications.
cations of the
fellowships'
candidates.
4.06 (b)          Training programs        Agreed with IDA.
and costs to be
approved by IDA.
4.06 (c)          Employment of            Generally consistent: recipients of
recipients of           fellowships were employed by the
fellowships in          ElNI, by INURE and the CPs. However
positions               one fellowship holder (chemist) has
consistent with         abandoned the training course and
their training for      another retired a few months after
at least 2 years.       her return.
4.07 (a)          Transfer of              Programs were modified; only small
programs, personnel,    part of personnel was transferred
students and            (lack of qualifications); the
equipment from the      equipment was not transferred
old to the new ENIs     because it was obsolete;
new students were recruited.
4.07 (b)          Closing of old ENIs      Done; the buildings of the old EIls
as soon as the new      were used again as classrooms for
ones were operational   secondary schools in line with
their initial conception.
4.08              Increasing enroll-       The enrollment doubled in upper CPA,
ment and upgrading of   Sekou in 1982 but there was no
upper CPA in Sekou      upgrading and lack of resources
and creation of 3 new   did not permit the creation of
lower CPAs              any lower CPA (the financing of
I lower CPA In Natitingou is presently
being studied by BID).
4.09              Legally establish-       "Arret6 interminist6riel No. 10921



- 34 -
in8 a separate          MEMGTPIMEMB/MIP/DGM" of 12/11/82
printing unit           establishing the "Centre National
within MEMGTP (not      de Production de Manuels Scolaires"
later than 12/31/82)    (CNPMS).
5.01              Accovnting and           Even   if   sometimes   late,   the
auditing                accounting,
procedures              financial and auditing reports were
regularly prepared; at the beginning
of project implementation, the audit
firm (selected by the Project Unit
with IDA's agreement) helped the
Project Unit in establishing an
accounting   system   and   relevant
accounting  procedures,   and  they
certified in their annual audit
reports that these procedures were
duly applied.
5.02              Operation and            Financial difficulties led to a
maintenance of          reduced utilization of physical
physical plant          plant and an increase in
IDA and Swiss Contribution's
financing of the operating budgets
of the ENRs. The maintenance programs
were prepared as scheduled but the
personnel concerned (presently in
training abroad) will not return to
their posts before July 1990; this,
combined with insufficient budget and
shortage of other maintenance
personnel, will Lelay the
implementation of these programs.
7.01              Effectiveness            Met; except in the case of the
conditions              condition that the Beninese-GTZ
grant Agreement be duly entered into;
on 3117183 this was waived.
7.02              Effective                It was postponed first from 10/25/82
Date                    to 1/31/83 (on 9/28/82), then to
3/31/83 (on 1/31/83)g the Credit
Agreement was declared effective
ON 3/17/83.



- 35 -
8. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inguts
Stage of Proiect Cycle                                 Weeks
Through Appraisal                                       82.6  (1)
Appraisal Through Board Approval                       111.6  (1)
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                    17.1
Supervision                                             84.2
Completion                                              18.0
Total                                                  313.5
-----------------------------------------------------------..---
(1) Cf. comments in Part III - 2 "Project Timetable" above.
B. Missions
Number and              Staff
Month/      Specialization          Days in
Mission                       Year         of Particip,ants        Field
Sectoral Study Reconnaissance 4/77         1 (GE)                    10
Sectoral Study (Unesco CP)    4-5/78       5 (E,AE,GE,TE,MT)        105
Follow-up to Sectoral         8-9/78       1 (3E)                     4
Study (Unesco CP)
Pre-identification            9/79         1 (GE)                      1
Identification (IDA +          10/79       6 (E,AE,2GE,TE,S)         78
Unesco CP)
Evaluation of printing         12/79       1 (TP cons. Unesco CP)     4
capacity
Preparation (Unesco CP)        1-2/80      6 (A,E,AE,GE,TE,TP)       153
Post-prep. 1 (IDA+Unesco CP)  3/80         3 (A,2GE)                  21
Post-prep. 2                  5/80         1 (E)                       6
Pre-appraisal 1 (IDA +        6-7/80       5 (A,E,AE,2GE)             39
Unesco CP)
Pre-appr.2 (visit to Unesco)  8/80         1 (GE)                      3
Pre-appr.3 (briefing at       9/80         1 (TP consultant)           1
Unesco)
Pre-appr. 4                   9/80         1 (A)                       1



- 36 -
Pro-appr. 5 (visit to GTZ)    10/80         1 (E)                         1
Pre-appr. 6                     10-11/80    1 (TP consultant)
Pro-appr. 7 (visit to           11/80       1 (GE)                        1
Swiss Dev. Coop.)
Pre-appr. 8                     12/80       1 (A)                         4
Pr--appr. 9 (vis.to Unesco)   1/81          1 (E)                         2
Pro-appr. 10                    1/81        1 (TP consultant)             4
Pro-appr. 11                   2/81         1 (GE)                        8
Pre-appr. 12                   3/81         1 (AE)                        7
Appraisal                       5/81        7 (A,C,E.2GE,TE,TP)          63
Post-appraisal                 9/81         2 (A,TE)                     21
Pro-negotiations                12/81       1 (LO)                        6
Post-negotiations              3/82         1 (LO)                        9
Number and
Month/   Specialization    Days in    Performance Rating by
Mission           Year    of ParticiDants    Field         Tvne of Problems
F     M     D    G   0
Suiervision 1      6/82        2 (E,AE)         10       -     2     _    _   _
Supervision 2      8/82        2 (A,GE)          6       -     -     _    1   -
Supervision 3      12/82       2 (E,GE)         10       -     -     _    _   _
Supervision 4      2/83         1 (A)            6       -     -     _    _   _
Supervision 5      4/83        2 (FA, E)         2       -     -     _    _   _
(during sect. mission)
Supervision 6      6-7/83      2 (A cons,AE)   30        -     -     -    -   -
Supervision 7      10-11/83    2 (A cons,GE)   11        -     2     -    -   2
Supervision 8      2&3/84      2 (A,GE)         10       2     2     -    -
Supervision 9      5184         1 (A)            7       -     -     -    -   -



- 37 -
Supervision 10       6/85         1 (FA)              1       -      -      -    2   2
(Project Unit       8/85          Proj.Dir. & A   10          -      -      -    -
mission to Washington
(Meeting in         11/85         1 (A) & Pr.Dir.   1         -      -      -     -    -)
Burkina Faso
Supervision 11       3/86         1 (GE)              5       2      2      2    2   -
Supervision 12       4/86         1 (A cons.)        11       2      3      2    2   -
Supervision 13    6/86            1 (A)               6       3      2      2    3   -
Supervision 14       10-11/86     1 (GE)             10       3      2      2    3   -
Supervision 15       11-12/86    2 (A)               10       3      2      2    3   -
Supervision 16       1/87         1 (A)               7       3      2      2    3   -
Supervision 17       3-4/87       2 (A,GE)           18       3      2      2    3   -
Supervision 18       10/87        1 (A)               8       3      2      2    2   -
Supervision 19       1-2/88       1 (DO)              1       -      _      _    _   _
Supervision 20       2/88         1 (A) during        1       -      _      _    _   _
health mission
Supervision 21       4/88         1 (A)               6       2      2      2    2   -
Supervision 22       11-12/88    2 (A,GE Unesco    24    2           2      2    2   -
consultant)
Supervision 23       6-7/89       2 (OA,GE Unesco  22         2      2      2    2   -
consultant)
Comgletion           4-5/90       2 (A,GE Unesco   25
consultant)
Symbols:
Soecializations: A a Architect; FA a Financial Analyst; Oh a Operationa Analyst; C a Division Chlef;
DO a Disbursements Officer; LO - Loan Officer; E - Econamist; ASi  Agricultural Educator; GE -
General Educator; TE a Technical Educator;
MT a Management Training; TP - Textbook Production; S * sociologist.
Performance Evaluation: I - problem free or minor problems; 2 a moderate probleam. 3 a major
problems.
Tyne of Problems: F - Financing; M a Management; D a Impact on Developments
G a General performance; 0 - Other.



Annex :
BENIN - Second Education Project (IDA/Swiss Development CooperationJCTZ)
COHPARATIVE IMPLEMENTATION TITETt.BLE
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
rri -i-ri    r  ., wrT wrT -rT-   -m  -in  m-, T-  m  -r
Effectiveness
Closing Date
ENIa
Civil works                     - - - - - - C-C -  - - - - - - - - -
Lokosea                                       _       C CC C-
Natitingou/Parakou                                      C C CG-                                              11-
Furniture/Equipment                    _- - -C  C- -c z   C  C- C-C_---
Local Specialists          ----- _- --_ _-_ _ _ _ _               - -- C____  -
Ccnoult,nts and TA                - - C-- - - - - - - - I- -_                                         _---_
Fellowships                                               - C-   C       C___ _       _
Operating Costs                                            --C C-___ -11_ __- I-
Textbooks
Civl vorks                                C              C--C- c_
Purniturelequipment                      - - C C- - -_ -                    -C _   C
Local Specialists               - - - - -                                                        _  -11--_  _-
Consultants and TA                -   C C C C _ _ 
Fellowships                                       CC - - C   - - - - - - - - - - -
Management, evaluation
and planing of projects
furniturelzquipment             - C                   C        C
Consultants and TA        -         _-- _              -__ -----_                                     __--_-
Fellowshlps                         -c                 c    --C- - - -                               . .. 
Operating Costs                  - - - - - - -  - - -                             _   _      - -Jl-_ _--
C - Iiddins (1);   - - - - - Appraisal estimateg            * Actuall II - Continuation (off 2nd project)
(1) from bid Invitation to start of contract implementation



M1IN - Second Education Projeoct (IDA/Swis Devolopment Cooperation/.TZ)                                   Annen 2
COItPARATIVE TABLi OF PROJECT COSTS
A a Appraisal Estlmte; S a Actual Costs
(is millions of CFAF, not of tones)
2                 *.                4                  5                 6
Furstero.                           Co"eslteats                           Operatlag
Civl Iseks      EIpsea            Local Fe  s  Tocelacal Assist.    Fellowship.             Cot$               Total
A       S        A        a         A        a        A        a         A        a        A        3        A        a
E~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~--     -----                                   -  - ---------------------------------
Ntlttisgs"            614    1,102      124     269       6a        as       --        26       --       --        2       1i
Parakee u1.08 1O            ,C        146      841        so       92      225        a6       99      261        a       30    6,029    7,668
(8)               (8)      (8)                        (3)      (3)
LWeAese             1,us    2,a         4n1   1,029       1t1       92       --       1a5       --       --        4       61
Toutbseks  (1)            156      609      401      600        14       16      m0        867       20       --      1S0      183    1,274    1,764 (2)
40 *                                                                     40 .
bs      . * Plaslmg         -       -        2         8                 -   C 12          869       46        5       41      226      621      663
Totels1mala # IDA.
Swiss Co. * 6U   I'm3   5,4    1,121    2,80           321       801    1,267      912       164      260      200      600    6,924   10.026
Persml% Of TaI W51                  Big      161      281        5x       ax      lox        oX       21       81s     8a        6X    0oox       30X
(1) 1004 615 1 iamlag (with AOm eucetlo of o a fias*e.  by Seais * IDA)
(2) witvalest to Sn 10.6 1i3ll3
(8) Total coot tor t*o tkco Well
S                                                                                                                                     .



Annex S
page I of 8
SENIN
Secon Education Project
(DA Credit 1246-U
POJECT COWLETIN  EPonT
CWAPATME TAILE OF TECRIRCAL SSISTANCE SPECIALISTS
Nmb_r of Sp.olosits   Toatl duration         Starting Date       Coats Ir
(is month)                                us,
Project Component $pecisllmtieno Estimate at  Actual  Eotinsto at Actual Estimate at Actual  Estlmatd/             Cexmante
Appraisal             Appraieal            Appraisal             Actual
st Copent
Train of primry EAIpot                 2          2           4        8.6       6/61       */01     40,000   Twe spe*aelIste,
ed low _ seoncnry                                                                                    22,400   both recrulted
ucWol teoodre                                                                                                 by Unoeco)
7ur.itero         1          1           2        3.0       0/62       7/38     16,000  One French
821000  Speclallst
Mlait              I        I           O        8.2       1/32      10/32     30000   One French
23,00  SpecIallst
Technical         a          -          s0         -        6/66        -      225,000  Position not
Iduetlo                                                                              0   filled (1)
Pedagogice        1          I          10         10       6/82       6/93     30,000  Benines-/Frencb
Advise                                                                          94,200  Spectallt
(3) Cf. trt III - 7.1.01 ( )



page 2 of 8
Number of Spoeellalta    Total durotlon          Starting Dat.        Coats In
(io mouths)                                  51011
Project Component  Spoclioatio  Estimate at   Actual   Eotlmt  at  Actual  Estesto at  Actual  Etimated/                  Cor-nnts
Appraieal               Apprsn al              Appralsal              Actual
lad Campo""e
Production and        Chlof Tecb.         I           1          42          as        6/62       12/85    811,000   Supplied by CT2
dietriblatie   of      duer                                                                                  ui.s.    until 11/1U.
teathook4                                                                                                             thon printing
specialist
Photoco.po.i-       1           2          24          84        10/03      11/sa    160,000   Suppliod by C1Z:
tsoe, photo-                                                                           a.m.    one specialist
rprodetlo                                                                                      until 4/69, he was
NW offset                                                                                       then roplaced by
pog   ettiag                                                                                    anothor
o ffst              1           1          8           U         10/t 8     11/80    240,000   Supplied by GTZ;
Pristiug1"                                                                             n.m.    this specislelt has
eleo been Chlof
Toechn. Advisor
since 12/Se
loduai  ol          1          _           10          -         10/83        -      120,000   Position not
heoo-bisdlsg                                                                               0   filled
NWd atitbehag
Personnel           I           _           4          -         10/I1                32,000   Position also
tUsis0g and                                                                            s.*.    filled by offset
oqaipes_t                                                                                       Prlnting Specialist
Curriculum           I           -          42          -         1/S2         -      81t,000   Position not
veo1in_  *sd                                                                            r.o.    filled
Ae.hite.t                                               as 8                 *                   Supplied by 0Tht
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- e .p  e  l mile t
*                                                             usti I 618, threa
!'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pegitlee mt  90,0-
;ffit.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao -a *  . .neeias



Ann.a 3
page a of a
Numbor of Specilleto    Total duration        Starting Dnte       Costs In
(in *ontho)                                USs
Projece C4 poetn Speciallzation  Estimate at  Actual   Estlto at Actual  Estimate at Actual  Estimated/              Coumentr
Appraisal              Appraisal            Appraisal              Actual
3rd Cempemest
FProject owagemosA, Inta t             I           a          00.        59       1/82      10/32    500,000   Supplied by
*nlealeo            trojoe                                                                            00,6500   Froach firm
_m  plaseegS Irector
Coordleator of      I          1          S4          48       1/82       6/02    405,000   Recrulted by
civil works                                                                       412,500   Unseco
Assitant            I          2          86          49       6/82       8/33    144.000   One local civil
Coordleter of                                                                        n.s. servant until
civil worbo                                                                                  11/Jt, then
toplaced by
another                >
Aeouatimg           1          1          12          12       12/01      4/82    120,000   Supplied by
am aeditg                                                                          n7,400   locally baeod
firm
Project             1          -           9          -        1/3t        -       67,500   Position not
Eveleatlee                                                                               0   filled (1)
project             a                      12         -        1/"6        -        90.000   Position not
PleasIng                                                                                 0   filled (1)
(1) Ct. P*t III - V.4.01 (e)



Ann6X 4
- 43 -
BENIN
..  Sd.p.aa*~..e(MA Credis 1244.go
Pi.)m        TumT  of Trel"ims                  los1tiom of To.   SW"a*           
Cowe_*ms                        I                IN e -A***          of Tm&mlio    O      _meOl is Usie
I                      -                      (doosIino. 1101)
_I D.4   *.tua   eatme  _oes _ siie o_ smi
es "l.           lb W.            SO u"..
-  ~      ~                    _-                                   
*eiw|   gad   ginmi odwemelom       4       10       40      41.n     US    lo/Ui        10,6100     Shiml (S
go.. seen                                IS soein  (:Le.)
~         te.e.e..e ed111s..'i           18       so     &9U      I/1111    o418/    140.0=0      ii f.e ggonmjg 
Ihelm (9%)
' Shin (We.)
sgrlmle.ium2 4                  2      40      W. 1/US    t1 1/105                     2  fe     ie
_*"_im                                                                                 ef 7 w
tejl*sCseulog                                                                          s hiv mmd_" 
_                     - V- .,
hlo.                                                                                           de.min
ggiSl"_      j  l    _            20   -         = 1/       -           06         imme  e
i   wnfitp
-                               -       -       -        -        -       -g
wwiewas_                                                                                        owi_
pelaSleg              8         *               -                                         "
of toetb.5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ *d=    tl  o
I  -*                     . 5.0           n        wo.*       .
-          -       -        -       -       - _  __



*   -.                     UWU%NOU. U~     -X Si'1
ANNEX 5
MUIStRE  DES  fiNANCES            - 44 _                               Page 1 of 2
LK MINISTRE OES FINANMC
CABUNET,          I
me ' /C    SP 
Objet:
A L'A80ZAION  _hONAZ
1818i I BE    N*W. WAWZM DO 2043
U.   S.    .
Obiet t A/S Rappait 4'acbbvemt du Dsiim P=3Zot d''UUn
(o4dit 3tL N  1246 - ME).
.Uumme : L/UO/PSA/2977 da 25 Juillot 190
P= lettse otdo an :dUfu, 1 is le bumsde codhmtm des
astifitds opdmUtomel  de Oa 1'UUUDO u's tminin po  avis 1z zqmt
vi6 a rb ost.
En rdpao, J'ai. 1i'ouns  de pwt  & o            ------ quo
1'dtude du d.. e appelle  la pit do 1'M Aatut' =    mis s mO
'atmans  nivanus a
I - SMLLZ
1*0/ U.4e ds a        t
- D a z (mDztm       1D man  Ged lo            sa 1.15 mm
1950) au lieu de D P S (mzstua  Pzovialsde lt4 i'suig.nMt).
- B  3  T (mzsoatin Ddpmtmmt&ui de I'ZIuliit at dus binspets)
&a l1U de D P E T (Dmtso  P       imilde . 1'Up     t stOde beumpints
2'/ Pap  1-5 -116.
Da         d 1;     oi  4. 4. 3E   I I         _Oq2htW. VW
(htitS,Ip  et PY_ncw)-
* 1', P._  'am1gmtt  in  mtm
Xottm q  1'fIt          de loenta pm is pininl d_os
ima Ninias Iatdpd.s 1 4am peti aoptables - uoiti ps Us ob4-
tAt. ds da   I, aims aot pVW Ubs       _        pM  Us        _



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
- 45 -
au 11u de "=La petubs 1  foactica nnt. E  feft la mLootioaL
pso.ot *stio quw *'11l st ,aL que le odt don lag&mta net u pm 61X
par  appot an zvo  CleouasluAts, cOla aa au.o couma1qumm   a le
owtoue t de 'lt0ole.
2 / PU   1m6.mm9i * oOflE i t  m
Cmputeo le loz  wa       e (a) pM I On raaia SW VM Atl
4aas l'avmdx de ordo me DJzootozL du P=oet automom m an~ 4'in OIs o
ti.. i      kstztiv nat le  ble  Wicluo'.
E  ofeft, los Bsspa  abl a   pzo3st   s oant qqu coftt picinl
L'omt pX de tzop *11 ois pint Id d z  Ios e1*tn.
3',/ =f, 1 MzoDtIo d* fzt4et a iauiati qu 1 =qgwk  _am
lIs obsuvtms dI ar o            a.en        do idu,   di , BMW _.us
as 3da  quL ant  dvQA d" tn mm    l m- t'aims & udimllam =-iso alts
de PamWm  at de NaJ4,no  prn u intent emadW  & 36  WUJms. de IWA.
l expat que tcntos at obomutims ament pule an cmm.Shd
th1n, 4. vms puls d'aio, XiNOSLSO, 1'.1.s.stm    M  umts di&tiw
nstra
ftfljaj. - AHo-
M1n1istre Istirimaire.



