Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3674-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
April 22, 1982
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
E This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatiion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =       CFA Franc (CFAFj
US$1                  =       CFAF 270
MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)            =       0.62 mile
i square kilometer (km2)   =         0.39 square mile
1 meter (m)                 =       3.28 feet
t square meter (m2)         =       10.76 square feet
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -      December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ODNLY
BENIN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
I.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ............................   1
A.      Social   and  Economic   Background   ..............................                                                         l
Population   ................................................                                                            l
The   Economy   ...............................................                                                          l
Prospects   .................................................                                                            2
The   National   Development   Plan   .............................                                                      2
Manpower   ..................................................                                                            2
B.     The   Education   System   ........................................                                                           3
Structure   .................................................                                                            3
Organization ...............................................   3
Main   Issues   in  Education   ..................................                                                       3
C.  The Government's Strategy for Educational Development ... ....   6
D.     The  Bank   Group's   Role   in   the   Sector   .........................                                                    7
Previous   Investments   ......................................                                                          7
Long-term   Strategy                   .......................................                                           8
Short-term   Priorities    .....................................                                                         8
II.      THE   PROJECT   .................................................                                                            8
A.     Project   Summary   .............................................                                                             8
B.     Project   Components   ..........................................                                                             9
Primary and Lower Secondary Teacher Education  ....                                                     .........   9
Textbook   Production   and   Distribution   .......................    il
Project Management,  Evaluation and Planning  ....                                                    ...........  12
III.       PROJECT   COST  AND   FINANCING   PLAN   .............................    13
Cost   of   the   Project   .......................................    13
Financing   Plan   ............                             ................................    16
Project   Recurrent   Costs   ...................................    lr
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  .........                        ...................   18
Project Preparation                     ................... 18
Project  Management                  ............ .-....-.......---...   19
Working Fund ........................................                                . 19
Specialist  Services  and  Fellowships  .......... .............   20
Sites    ......... 20
Procurement ..............................................   20
Disbursements  .............................................   21
Accounts  and  Audits  .......................................   22
Evaluation  ..............................................   22
V.   PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS  ...........                  .......................   22
Economic  Justification  ................. ...................   22
Educational Benefits  ......................................   23
Risks  ...................... ........................   23
VI.   AGREEMENTS`REACHED AND RECOsMOENDATIONS  ......                          ................   24



Table of Contents (Cont d)
ANNEXES
1       Comparative Education Indicators
2       Structure of the Education System
3       Education Pyramid, 1978-79
4       Primary Education:  Projections of Enrollment and Teacher
Requirements, 1977-87
5       Secondary Education:  Projections of Enrollment and Teacher
Requirements, 1977-87
6       Cost Summary Table
7       Financing Plan by Project Component and Category
8       Summary of Specialist Services
9       Summary of Fellowships
10      Implementation Schedule
il      Schedule of Disbursements
12      Disbursements Against Certified Statements of Expenditure
13      List of Related Documents in the Project File
MAP   IBRD No. 15373
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Benin from May 5 to 17, 1981. The mission members were Messrs. G.
Berlin (general educator), R. Skolnik (economist), 0. de Messières (architect),
0. Markgren (general educator), I. Goodine (technical educator) and J.J. Aebi
(consultant - textbook production specialist).






GLOSSARY / GLuSSAIIKE
ADB       African Development Bank            banque Africaine de Developpen,ent
BEPC      First Cycle Secondary School        brevet c'ituaes eremier Uycle
CEAP      Primary Teacher's Certificate       Certificat d'Aptitude Pédaào6i.que
CP 1      Lower Secondary Vocational          Complexe Polytechinique, niveau 1
Institute
CP 2      Higher Secondary Vocational         Complex Polytecnnique, niveau Z
Institute
CPA       Secondary Agricultural              Complexe Polytechnique Agricole
Vocational Institute
CPPE      Vocational Upgrading Center         Centre de Perfectionnement du
Personnel des Lntreprises
CPU       Polytechnical College               Complexe Polytechnique
Universitaire
DEP       Directorate of Educational          Direction des Ltudes et de la
Planning                            Planification
EEC       European Economic Community         Communaute Economique huropeenne
ENI       Teacher Training College            Ecole iNormale Integree
ENS       Advanced Teachers College           Ecole Normale Superieure
GRVC      Rural Youth Cooperative             Groupement 1{evolutionnaire a Vocation
Cooperative
INFRE     National Institute of Training    Institut National de la 1'ormation
and Research in Education           et de la &echerche en Lducation
JIR       National Teaching Service           Jeunes Instituteurs KevolutioBnalres
Program
MACP      Ministry of Literacy Training       lîinistere de l'Alptabétisation et de
and Culture                         la Culture Populaire
MD&AC     Ministry of Rural Development       Ministère au Développement Rural et
and Cooperative Action              de l'Action Coopérative
MEBM      Ministry of Pre-Primary and         Ministère de l'Lnseignemeilt de base
Primary Education                   et rfaternel



MEMGTP    Ministry of General Secondary,    Ministère de l'Enseignement Moyen
Technical and Vocational            Géneral, Technique et Professionnel
Education
MESRS     Ministry of Higher Education         Ministère de l'Enseignement Supérieur
and Research                        et de la Recherche Scientifique
MTAS      Ministry of Labor and Social         Ministère du Travail et des Affaires
Affairs                             Sociales
UNDP      United Nations Development           Programme des Nations Unies pour le
Programme                           Développement



BENIN
BASIC DATA
Population (1980)                                            3.4 million
Population growth rate                                       2.9%
GNP Per capita (1980)                                        US$320
% of
Enrollments (1979)       No. of Students   Age Group   Age Group   % Girls
Primary                357,348             6-11         49          33.6
Lower secondary          51,265           12-15        n.a.         27
Upper secondary          13,010           16-18        n.a.         25
Total secondary          64,275           12-18         il          26
University                                18-22
Literacy rate (1975)                                        11%
Life expectancy at birth                                    46 years
Central Government expenditures on education:
as % of GNP                                             6.5%
as % of total government recurrent expenditures          35%
Recurrent cost per student in US$ (1977):
Primary                                                41
Secondary                                              92
Technical secondary                                   324
Agricultural secondary                                852






I. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.   Social and Economic Background
Population
1.01      Benin has a population estimated at 3.4 million.  About 70% of the
population is concentrated in the southern and central parts of the country,
and the same percentage lives in rural areas. The average annual popula-
tion growth rate has been about 3% overall and 5% in the main urban centers.
Almost 50% of the population is under age 15.
1.02      The population is composed of a number of ethnic groups, the largest
being the Ewe (55%), the Yoruba (13%) and the Bariba (12%). While each ethnic
group has its own language, French is the official language and is also used
as a medium of instruction.
1.03      The level of human resource development in Benin is extremely low
and is similar to the levels found in other low-income African countries.
Less than 15% of the adult population is literate, life expectancy at birth
is less than 50 years, and the child death rate is estimated at 27 per 1,000.
The Economy
L.04      Benin is one of the least developed countries in the world econom-
:ically, with a GNP per capita (1980) estimated at US$320. Economic develop-
ment has been constrained over the past two decades by political instability,
poor climatic conditions, and a low level of human resource development.
L.05      Agriculture provides a livelihood for about 70% of the population
but generates only 45% of GDP. The industrial sector is relatively undevel-
oped, employing only about 2% of the work force and generating 10% of GDP.
The port of Cotonou has traditionally played an important transit function for
Niger and Western Nigeria, and the tertiary sector, mainly commerce and
transport, employs about 40% of the work force and contributes 45% of GDP.
1.06      From independence until 1975 there was very little real growth in
GDP. Over the period 1976 to 1980, however, the economy grew at an average
annual rate of 4.5%. This growth was primarily a result of an increasing
demand for Beninese goods and services from Niger and Nigeria.
1.07      The Government has followed prudent budgetary policies.  It has
tried to control current expenditures through limiting civil service salaries
and reducing current expenditures in key sectors. As a result of these
measures and increasing revenues from the growth in trade with Nigeria, Benin
has had surpluses on the current account over the past five years. However,
the overall budgetary position has been in deficit because of substantial
investments in large projects and Government lending to unprofitable state
enterprises.



-2-
Prospects
1.08      The medium-term outlook for economic growth in Benin is moderately
optimistic, with real GNP growth during 1981-85 expected to average about 5%
per year. The economy, however, faces several important risks: a slackening
of export demand, the vulnerability to economic activities in Nigeria, the
negative impact of problems which may arise in implementing large projects,
and the worsening financial situation of state enterprises. In the long term,
Benin's growth potential will be limited by a poor resource base to perhaps 4%
per year, and the achievement of evgen that rate will depend on the Government's
ability to channel resources and investments toward the development of food
and cash crops.
The National Development Plan
1.09      In 1977 the Goveroment issued a three-year National Development
Plan (1978-80), with total planned investments of about US$1.0 billion. The
Plan aimed to promote economic growth primarily through (a) concentrating
investments in large-scale projects in the transport and industrial sectors,
which together were allocated about 65% of the planned investment funds;
(b) establishing state control over major enterprises; and (c) encouraging
the production of intermediate goods. About 7% of the total planned invest-
ment was allocated to education.
1.10      During the Plan period the Government was able to spend only about
50% of its programmed investments. The major constraints to more successful
implementation of the Plan were inadequate project preparation and coordina-
tion, delays in obtaining foreign financing, and weak project management--all
of which reflect, among other things, institutional weaknesses and a lack of
qualified manpower.
Manpower
1.11      The total work force is estimated at about 1.5 million.  About 1.1
million Beninese are employed in the traditional rural sector, about 60,000
are salaried workers in the formal modern sector, and the remainder are
self-employed or work in the informal sector. Wage employment in agriculture
is extremely limited and smallholder farming predominates. Commerce comprises
a relatively high 36% of the urban work force.
1.12      Benin suffers from conslderable unemployment and under-employment.
At the same time, however, there is an acute shortage of skilled labor and
this has a very adverse impact on productivity in both the public and private
sectors. The main reason for this situation is that the education system
aimed for a long time primarily at producing high-caliber administrators with
a general education, while paying little attention to vocational training.
Projections of wage employment, based on the investments included in the
three-year National Development Plan, indicate that there are important



- 3 -
shortages of skilled workers in the industrial sector and of trained middle-
and upper-level cadres in the agriculture sector. These projections also
indicate that the education system is producing each year less than 50% of the
number of middle-level cadres and skilled workers required in agriculture and
industry.
B.   The Education System
Structure
1.13      The Government is in the process of changing the structure of the
formal education system from the traditional French model (6 + 4 + 3) to a
system comprising five years of primary, three years of lower secondary and
three years of upper secondary education. University education follows, with
programs of varying duration. Each educational level leads to a diploma,
and access to the next level is conditional upon passing a selective entrarit_
examination.
Organization
1L.14     Responsibility for the management and administration of the educa-
tion system is shared by four different ministries: (a) Ministry of Pre-Primary
and Primary Education (MEBM), (b) Ministry of General Secondary, Technical and
Vocational Education (MEMGTP), (c) Ministry of Higher Education and Research
(MESRS), and (d) Ministry of Literacy Training and Culture (MACP). The
Nqational Institute of Education (INFRE) within the MEMGTP is responsible for
curriculum development, teacher education, and the production and distribution
of educational materials for the formal school system. Agricultural training
outside the education system and the rural youth training program are admini-
stered by the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC) and
skilled worker upgrading by the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MTAS).
Main Issues in Education
1.15      The education system in recent years has undergone several important
general developments.  First, enrollments at the primary and secondary levels
'have grown since 1972 at an average annual rate of 15%, which is extremely
high. Second, since 1975 the Government has been implementing an educational
reform which foeuses on changing the structure of the formal system, revising
curricula and establishing in-service teacher training programs.  Third, the
Government has implemented a number of measures to try to contain recurrent
expenditures on education.
1.16      The net impact of these recent developments has been mixed.  On
the one hand, increasing numbers of children have been enrolled in primary
and secondary schools and the Government has contained the proportion of i'ts
recurrent budget spent for education. On the other hand, during this peri.od
of rapid growth, the Government has not provided the teachers, textbooks,
or facilities required to maintain the quality of education. The main issue
now facing the educational system is how the Government can simultaneously:
continue to increase access to primary education, improve the quality of
education, and direct education and training more toward key manpower requiire-
ments.



-4-
1.17      Access.  Despite the rapid growth in enrollments, the gross primary
school enrollment ratio is still only about 50%. In addition, the gross
primary school enrollment ratio varies by region from 26% to 76%, with much
higher enrollment ratios in the densely populated coastal areas. The enroll-
ment ratio for girls is also significantly lower than for boys at both the
primary and secondary levels. The primary school enrollment ratio for girls,
for example, is about 27%, compared with about 58% for boys.
1.18      The Government realizes the economic importance of primary educa-
tion and plans to continue to increase access to education, especially among
rural areas and the female population. Achieving these objectives, however,
will require not only an increase in the number of school places but will also
require an increase in the number of qualified teachers and in the production
of educational materials.
1.19      Quality of education. There are numerous indications that the
quality of formal education in Benin is low: more than half of the primary
and secondary school teachers are unqualified, there are almost no printed
materials for teachers or for students, furniture is scarce and the school
buildings are generally in a poor state of repair. Largely as a result of
these factors, the internal efficiency of the formal education system is low.
About 20% of the primary pupils repeat a grade each year and only 30% of those
starting primary school complete the full six-year cycle. For every 1,000
pupils who begin secondary school, only about 330 enter the final grade of
secondary school.
1.20      The severe shortage of qualified primary and secondary school
teachers is primarily a result of the fact that until recently almost no
teacher education was carried out in Benin.  Until 1977 there was only one
institution in Benin for training primary school teachers. This school pro-
duced about 170 graduates per year over the past decade, wlereas about 500
per year were needed. Most of the primary teaching force consisted of young
people without any formal pedagogical training, many of whom were fulfilling
national service requirements.
1.21      In 1978 the Government decided to reorganize the training of primary
school teachers. The main thrust of this reorganization was to be the estab-
lishment of six institutions for training primary school teachers, with one
institution to be located in each province. This decentralization of training
was to deal with the fact that the few available qualified teachers tend to
teach in the coastal areas, leaving the primary schools in rural areas with
almost no qualified teachers.
1.22       In the past two years the Government has established the six teacher
training institutions. However, the training of primary and lower secondary
school teachers continues to face a number of problems:
(a) The new institutions are operating temporarily in very poorly
equipped facilities which are not suitable for carrying out teacher
training programs at the required level of quality;



(b)  The new institutions are too small to operate efficiently;
(c)  The Government still has not established a program to train
teachers for lower secondary school; and
(d)  The Government still has not establîshed a program to train
teachers of vocational and agicultural subjects, which are
important for orienting the educatîon system more toward meeting
priority manpower requirements.
The Government plans to address these problems through the proposed project.
1.23      The scarcity of textbooks, teachers' guides and other learning
materials also adversely affects the quality of education. In addition, the
little that is available is disproportionately concentrated in the coastal
area.
1.24      The National Institute of Education (INFRE) has a competent staff
who are developing improved curricula and preparing textbook manuscripts for
the primary and secondary levels. The Goverument, however, does not have a
program for publishing and distribut.ing educational materials. Moreover, nio
Government or private printing facility in Benin has the capacity to undertake
major printing work for the MEMGTP, and that Ministry lias no regional ware--
houses for the storage of educational materials and few vehicles that could
be used for their nationwide distribution. The Government's capacity for
publishing and distributing textbooks will have to be enhanced if low-cost
educational materials are to be made available to the schools. The Government
plans to address these problems through the proposed project.
1.25      Meeting key manpower requirements.  The low quality of education
is a constraint not only to the internal efficiency of the education system,
but also to addressing key manpower requirements. Low quality leads to
graduates who frequently do not have the knowledge and skills necessary for
obtaining employment or for performing their jobs effectively.
L.26      The present system of vocational, technical and agricultural train-
ing also constrains the meeting of priority manpower requirements. The annual
output of middle- and upper-level personnel from the existing institutions
is less than half the number required (para. 1.12). Less than 50% of the
teachers are qualified Beninese, and the facilities and equipment in existing
institutions are in poor condition. In addition, the existing institutions
train a few people in many different specializations, whereas the country
would be better off with training more people but in only a few key fields.
To address these problems, the Government will need to relate training pro-
grams more closely to general educational programs, employer requirements
and availability of funds.



-o6-
1.27      Educational costs and finiancing.  The financial issues facing
educational development in Benin are reflected in a number of points.  First,
the Government during the past ten years has been allocating to education
about 35% of its annual recurrent budget, but for this sum it has been able
to put only about 50% of its primary school age children in primary school.
Second, the Government has been putting almost all of its recurrent funds for
education into an increasing salary bill for teachers in the expanding educa-
tion system and has allocated almost no funds for the purchase of textbooks,
teachers guides or other educational materials. Third, the Government has
ambitious plans for developing secondary technical education which would
lead to a substantial increase in the recurrent expenditures for education.
Finally the Government's financial resources for addressing educational
issues, while a large part of its total recurrent budget, are not sufficient.
1.28      As part of the educational reform, the Government recently imple-
mented a number of measures to contain the cost of educational programs and
make expenditures on education more efficient. These cost-containment measures
include (a) employing large numbers of untrained teachers in primary schools,
(b) using university students as secondary school teachers, (c) reducing the
number of scholarships, (d) freezing the salaries of civil servants, including
teachers, (e) reducing the duration of primary education from six to five
years and secondary education from seven to six years, and (f) increasing the
teaching load of sècondary school teachers.
1.29      While there is no doubt that it is necessary to contain educational
costs, the Government, in implementing the measures noted above, did not pay
sufficient attention to their impact on the quality of education. As a
result, the quality of education has been adversely affected by the declining
average level of qualifications of the teaching force and by the dearth of
funds to purchase materials and equipment.
1.30      The Government should pursue its efforts to contain the cost and
increase the financial resources available for education, but should also
adopt a comprehensive strategy that would limit the impact of cost-containment
measures on educational quality. This strategy could include (a) slowing down
the growth of enrollments in secondary education, (b) continuing to reduce
boarding and scholarships in secordaLry and higher education, (c) maintaining
high pupil/teacher ratios, and (ci) diversifying the sources of education
finance.
C.   The Government's Strategy for Educational Development
1.31      The National Developmernt I'lan (1978-80) proposed a strategy which
was based on the Education Reform Decree of 1975 and focused on the develop-
ment of primary and technical education and vocational training. As referred
to above (paras 1.15 to 1.30), the Government's program for primary education
includes (a) providing additional facilities, (b) improving and expanding the
training and upgrading of teachers, and (c) supplying the schools with ade-
quate educational materials. In addition, the Government plans to create at
all schools some "school production units" - groups of students who engage in
productive work as part of their schooling. The Government is developing



- 7 -
technical education and vocational training through improving the teaching of
science and mathematics in general secondary schools and expanding facilities
for specific technical and vocational training programs.
1.32      The Government's strategy is a sound one which addresses the main
issue of improving quality and efficiency while at the same time continuing
to increase access to basic education and to vocational and technical educa-
tion and training. In addition, the Government has endeavored to contain
costs and diversify the sources of finance for education. In pursuing its
strategy, however, the Government should (a) seek the most cost-efficient
means to implement its programs, and (b) carefully review the organization and
content of the technical and vocational training programs to ensure that they
are cost-efficient and closely correlated to the requirements of employers.
1.33      Assistance from outside the Bank Group.  Apart from the Bank Group,
the most important bilateral and multilateral donors for educational develop-
ment in Benin are France, Canada, the EEC, and the ADB. The ADB and EEC are
assisting with the development of technical education for the industrial,
commercial, agricultural and health sectors, the Government of Canada is
financing the construction and equipping of a polytechnical college, and
France is the most important source of technical assistance personnel. Two--
thirds of the external assistance for education goes to higher education,
mostly in the form of scholarships and salaries of technical assistance
teaching staff. At the secondary level, external donors are providing
assistance in the form of teaching staff and the construction and equipping
of schools.
D.   The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
Previous Investments
1.34      The Bank Group has provided one US$4.0 million IDA credit for
education in Benin (Cr. 583-DA), which aimed at helping the Government to:
(a) train rural youth in literacy skills and simple agricultural techniques,
and (b) upgrade in a new vocational training center (CPPE) the vocational
skills of workers in the modern industrial sector.
1.35      The IDA credit was signed in September 1975, but did not become
effective until October 1976 due to major governmental changes and procedural
delays.  Project implementation had a very slow start because the Government
was preparing a major revision of its approach to rural development and also
because site difficulties and weak project administration slowed down civil
works for the CPPE.
1.36      Most of these problems have been resolved and project implementa--
tion has accelerated over the past twelve months. The construction of the
National Support Center and three Regional Support Centers for the rural
youth training program has been completed. In addition, an evaluation of the
program was recently completed and indicates that the approach taken (a)
encourages young people to stay in their village and engage in agricultural
activities, and (b) has demonstrated to many villages the potential value of
agricultural cooperatives. On the other hand, participants in the training



- 8 -
acquired much less literacy than planned and agricultural activities were not
successful in areas where little land could be placed at the participants'
disposal. The vocational upgrading center should be fully operational in the
next few months, and a well-drilling component is making good progress. The
project is now expected to be completed by late 1982.
Long-term Strategy
1.37      Over the long term, the Bank Group should support the Government's
efforts to attain universal primary education, improve the quality of educa-
tion, and satisfy key requirements for industrial and agricultural manpower --
all in as cost-efficient a manner as possible. As the Government's plans
point out, realizing these objectives will require high pupil/teacher ratios,
adequate supplies of textbooks and other educational materials, and increas-
ing numbers of qualified teachers.  [n adition, manpower and financial con-
siderations suggest that the Government should slow the growth of enrollments
at the secondary and post-secondary levels and only slowly expand key areas of
technical and vocational education. Future education projects will need to be
designed against this background.
Short-term Priorities
1.38      In the short term, the Bank Group should focus its assistance on
improving the quality of primary and secondary education through the training
of larger numbers of qualified teachers in general, vocational and agricul-
tural subjects and the production and distribution of educational materials.
These investments would (a) help to improve the efficiency with which existing
educational resources are used, (b) produce a more equitable distribution of
qualified teachers and educational materials, and (c) raise the quality of
primary and lower secondary education and, as a consequence improve the prepa-
ration of students for further schooling and the work place. In addition,
these investments would provide qualified teachers for improved and expanded
education in agricultural, vocational and technical subjects and would thereby
complement the assistance of the First Education Project (para. 1.36) and of
other agencies which are financing assistance for expanding and improving low-
and middle-level agricultural, vocational and technical training.
II. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Summary
2.01      The main objective of the project is to assist in improving the
quality of primary and lower secondary education by increasing the numbers
of qualified teachers and textbooks available for these levels.
2.02      The project also aims at he]Lping over the long term to deal with
the issues of access, external eff-iciency and costs which are discussed
in paras. 1.15-1.30.  Increasing the numbers of qualified teachers would



-9-
help to set a foundation for later increases in access to primary and lower
secondary education. Increasing the supply of teaching materials would
improve the quality of education and lead to reductions in dropout and repeti-
tion rates and would also lead to graduates from the school system who are
better prepared for work. Finally, increasing the numbers of teachers of
vocational, agricultural and technical subjects would lead to graduates
whose education is more closely correlated than at present to the requirements
of the labor market.
2.03      The main physical objectives of the project will be:
(a) the establishment of three teacher training institutions with
an annual output of 675 primary school teachers and 260 lower
secondary school teachers; and
(b) the establishment of a program and related facilities for producing
and distributing about 470,000 textbooks per year over the project
implementation period to the primary and lower secondary level.
B.   Project Components
2.04      The project would be implemented over the five-year period 1982-87
and would consist of the following components:
(a) Primary and Lower Secondary Education - construction, furniture,
equipment, specialist services and fellowships to establish three
colleges for training teachers for primary and lower secondary
schools;
(b) Textbook Production and Distribution - construction, furniture,
equipment, consummable materials, specialist services and fellow-
ships to prepare manuscripts and establish a printing facility which
could produce textbooks for primary and lower secondary schools;
and
(c) Project Management, Evaluation and Planning - Specialist services,
fellowships, equipment and operating costs for project management,
and specialist services for the evaluation of this proposed project
and the preparation of future education projects.
Primary and Lower Secondary Teacher Education
2.05      The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment to
establish three colleges ("Ecoles Normales Intégrées" - ENIs) to train primary
and lower secondary school teachers to a higher standard and in larger numbers
than at present. The three new institutions would replace the six colleges
which the Government is now operating on a temporary basis (paras. 1.21 and
1.22). In accordance with the Government's decentralization strategy, the new
colleges would be located in Lokossa, Parakou and Natitingou.  Distributing
the colleges in this way would help to provide qualified teachers for the
rural northern and central parts of the country, which now have dispropor-
tionately low numbers of qualified teachers.



- 10 -
2.06      The project would upgrade the quality of existing teacher training
and relate it more closely to the requirements of the primary and junior
secondary levels by: (a) providing suitable facilities and equipment for
teacher training; (b) consolidating the training of primary teachers in
general subjects at the three ENIs; (c) adding to the three ENIs new programs
for the training of lower secondary teachers in general subjects; and (d)
supporting a program at one of the E]NIs to train teachers in technical and
agricultural subjects and home economics for the lower secondary level.
2.07      The students for the primary teacher training program will be
recruited primarily from among lower secondary school graduates who have had
no prior teacher training but have already served as teachers. Upon gradu-
ation, they will be certified as teachers with the first level of qualification
and they will be able to be certified at the next higher level after following
in-service training courses over a several-year period. The students for the
lower secondary program will be recruited from upper secondary school grad-
uates.  All teacher training students will be boarders on government scholar-
ships. INFRE would be responsible for the further development of the ENI
training programs and graduation norims.
2.08      The staff of the existing teacher training colleges would be trans-
ferred to the three new colleges upon their completion. As these staff
lack experience in operating progranis to train teachers in technical and
agricultural subjects and home economics, the project would also finance
56 staff-months of specialist services, salary allowances of local specialists
in teacher training and educational equipment, and 168 staff-months of fellow-
ships to train and upgrade local staff to operate and maintain these colleges
effectively.
2.09      The three new colleges would graduate annually a total of 935
teachers for the primary and lower secondary level, compared to 800 teachers
recently graduating from the six temporary programs. When compared with the
situation existing before the temporary programs were established, the new
colleges will allow for a permanent increase in the annual output of primary
and junior secondary school teachers from 170 to 935. The proposed enrollments
and annual output of the three colleges to be provided under the project are
shown below, by educational program.
ENI Enrollments and Annual Output of Teachers
Lower Secondary Teachers
Primary                                                  Total Lower
Institution  Teachers  General  Technical  Agricultural  Home Ec.   Secondary
Lokossa         300        182         78           40          24          324
Parakou         200        150          -            -           -          150
Natitingou      175         46          -            -           -           46
Total     675        378         78           40          24          520
Annual
output        675        189        3,9           20         12           260
Duration of       1          2          2            2           2            2
training
(years)



- il -
T'he enrollments and outputs are based on projections made during project
preparation of the average annual demand from 1977 to 1987 for teachers of
primary and lower secondary school. The new ENI's would have a permanent
capacity to train about 675 primary teachers per year to a high standard.
The annual number of primary school teachers produced at the ENIs would be
slightly lower than the number graduating over the past two years from the
temporary teacher training programs due to a rationalization of the programns
of study and an attempt to make the annual output of primary teachers more
closely in line with long-term requirements. However, the quality of primary
school teachers trained at the new institutions should be considerably higher
than the quality of recent graduates of the temporary teacher training pro-
grams (para. 1.22). The new ENIs would graduate annually about 260 well-
cqualified teachers for the junior secondary level, compared to no junior
secondary level teachers being produced at present.
2.10      The program which will be established to train lower secondary
teachers of agriculture is closely linked to a program, which Government
submitted to IDA for review, to increase the number of students in secondary
schools who take agricultural subjects and to increase the number of students
qualified to become teachers of agriculture. This will be accomplished by
upgrading and expanding the upper agricultural secondary school in Sekou and
establishing three new lower secondary agricultural schools in various regions
of Benin. Since the success of the agricultural teacher training program
is linked to Covernment's carrying out this program, the Government gave
assurances during negotiations that it will take all steps necessary by
June 30, 1987 to upgrade and increase the enrollment of the upper secondary
agricultural school in Sekou and to develop three new lower secondary agri-
,zultural schools; and (b) exchange views with IDA from time to time on the
progress of implementation of that program.
2.11      To enable the teacher training system to be consolidated as plarned,
the Government gave assurances during negotiations that, as soon as each ENI
is completed it will transfer sufficient staff, equipment and students from
existing teacher training colleges to make the ENIs fully operational and
that it will then close down the training programs for primary and lower
secondary teachers at the six existing teacher training colleges. The
Government plans to use the facilities from the existing colleges eventuaLly
for operating other educational programs.
2.12      The Government of Benin has not been able to maintain educational
facilities and equipment in a systematic manner.  In addition, the consultant
architects are not experienced in producing designs which will take maximum
account of the Government's limited capacity for maintenance. The project,
therefore, will finance 6 man-months of services of a maintenance specialist
to work with the architectural consultants and the staff of the MEMGTP to
prepare a plan for future building and equipment maintenance for the three
teacher training colleges. This specialist would work in Benin over two
separate periods which would encompass both the planning and execution
of building maintenance.



- 12 -
Textbook Production and Distribution
2.13      The project would finance the preparation of textbook manuscripts
and the establishment of a program under the MEMGTP for printing and distri-
buting an average of about 470,000 textbooks and teaching guides per year
during the project implementation period. Toward these ends, the project
would finance construction, furnituire, equipment and consummable materials to
establish a print shop in Porto Novo. The project would also finance about
166 staff-months of technical assistance and salary allowances for a local
printing specialist who would provide on-the-job training for local print shop
personnel and assist INFRE in curriculum development and textbook editing.
Specialist assistance would be complemented by 85 staff-months of fellow-
ships for the training abroad of print shop and textbook program staff.
2.14      The project would also finance construction, furniture and equip-
ment for a central warehouse, to be located next to the print shop, and
six regional warehouses which would be located at each of the principal
education centers. The project would also finance vehicles for transporting
educational materials.
2.15      INFRE is responsible for the production of textbook manuscripts.
Toward this end, the institute has contracted eleven teams of educators to
prepare manuscripts and the project would finance the authors  fees of about
US$2,000 per manuscript, for a total of 36 manuscripts.  The Government has
already prepared acceptable lists of the titles to be developed under the
project and the number of copies to be put into use. INFRE has established a
technical commission of educators, teachers and educational inspectors for
each discipline to review the manuscripts.
2.16      The Government aims to make the textbook production program self-
financing. It plans to do this by selling the textbooks to cooperatives,
parents and students at a price slightly higher than their unit cost to the
Government. The average sales price per textbook would be about US$1.50 and
the cost per student for a complete set of books would range from about
US$3.00 in the first grade to about US$10.50 for the final grade of lower
secondary school.
2.17      As this would be the first experience in Benin with wide use of
educational materials, the project would finance 9 staff-months of services
of an evaluation specialist, part of which would assist the MMGTP in eval-
uating the use and impact of the educational materials produced under the
project. During negotations the Government gave assurances that this
evaluative study will be carried out in accordance with a research design
satisfactory to IDA, that a copy of the results will be sent to IDA before
December 31, 1986, and that it will exchange views with IDA on the findings of
the study.
2.18      Experience throughout Western Africa has indicated that educational
printing bureaus function most effectively when they have administrative
and financial autonomy. The Government, therefore, gave assurances during



- 13 -
negotiations that it would issue by December 31, 1982 legal documents satis-
factory to IDA establishing the textbook unit as a legal entity and stating
the rules governing its operations.
Project Management, Evaluation and Planning
2.19      To implement the project, the Government has established a Proj-
ect Unit within the MEMGTP. Its staff consists of a director, two part-
time deputy directors and an accountant, all recruited locally. A locally
recruited building technician and four construction supervisors will also
work under the project unit. This would be the MEMGTP's first experience in
implementing an IDA-assisted project; consequently and in view of the size of
the project, 150 staff-months of technical assistance would be provided to
strengthen the Project Unit in project management and in the coordination of
the architectural program and civil works. In addition, the project would
finance the equivalent of 12 staff-months of technical assistance for the
Government to recruit an independent auditing firm, which would: (a) assist
in establishing an acceptable project accounting system, (b) provide periodic
on-the-job training of Project Unit staff, and (c) carry out annual audits.
The project would also finance 60 staff-months of fellowships to upgrade
Project Unit staff in project management, procurement and accounting. Finally,
the project would finance supplementary furniture and equipment for the
Project Unit and its operating expenses during the implementation period,
including salary allowances for local project staff.
2.20      Given the importance of technical assistance to completing proj-
ect preparation and to putting project execution on a sound basis, as a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit the following technical assis-
tance specialists shall have taken up their positions: (a) an assistant to
the project director, (b) a coordinator of works, (c) a maintenance specia-
list, and (d) an independent auditor. During negotiations the Government
gave assurances that it will employ a project director, two deputy directors,
and a project accountant for the entire project implementation period.
2.21      The project-financed evaluation specialist (para. 2.17) who would
assist the MEMGTP in evaluating the textbook component would also assist the
MEMGTP in evaluating the other project components and in preparing a project
completion report. The specialist's primary responsibility would be to help
the Ministry establish systems for data collection, analyses and reporting.
2.22      To assist the Government in planning and preparing future educa-
tion projects, the project would also finance 12 staff-months of services
of architectural and education specialists.



- 14 -
III.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
3.01      The net-of-tax cost of the project is estimated at US$25.64 million.
The total cost, including taxes, is estimated at US$30.38 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$13.70 million. The breakdown of cost by
project component is detailed in Annex 6 and summarized below.
ESTIMATED COSTI BY PROJECT COMPONENT
% of   US$ M.
------CFA millio             -----US$ million-----   Base  Taxes in
Component             Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Cost   Total
Primary & Lower      2,902.7  1,565.0  4,467.7  10.75        5.80   16.55   76.0   3.20
Secondary Teacher
Education
Textbook               228.7    727.6    956.3   0.85        2.69    3.54   16.2   0.20
Production &
Distribution
Management,            100.2    361.6    461.8   0.37         1.34    1.71    7.8   0.01
Evaluation,
Planning
Base Cost            3,231.6  2,654.2  5,885.8  11.97        9.83   21.80  100.0   3.41
Physical               323.2    265.4    588.6   1.20        0.98    2.18    -       0.34
Contingencies
Expected Price         949.3    781.3  1,730.6   3.51        2.89    6.40    -       0.99
Increase
Total Project        4,504.1  3,700.9  8,205.0  16.68    13.70   30.38    -          4.74
Cost (incl. Tax)
Taxes                1,280.5       -    1,280.5   4.74        -       4.74    -       -
TOTAL PROJECT COST  3,223.6  3,700.9  6,924.5  11.94    13.70   25.64    -
(net of taxes)



- 15 -
:3.02     The estimated costs by category of expenditures are shown below.
ESTIMATED COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Category of              --     CFA million-------  ------US$ million-----           of
Expenditure              Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost
Civil Works             2,605.8    963.8  3,569.6   9.65         3.57   13.22       60.6
Furniture                 162.3      24.3    186.6   0.60        0.09    0.69        3.2
Equipment                   -       676.1    676.1    -          2.50    2.50       11.5
Professional Fees         226.7      88.2    314.9   0.84        0.33    1.17        5.4
Technical                 177.0    708.1    885.1   0.66         2.62    3.28       15.0
Assistance
Fellowships                23.5      94.2    117.7   0.09        0.35    0.44        2.0
Operating Costs            36.3      99.5    135.8   0.13        0.37    0.50        2.3
Base Cost               3,231.6  2,654.2  5,885.8  11.97         9.83   21.80    1L00.0
Physical Conting.         323.2    265.4    588.6   1.20         0.98    2.18
Exp. Price Inc.           949.3    781.3  1,730.6   3.51         2.89    6.40
Total Project           4,504.1  3,700.9  8,205.0  16.68    13.70   30.38
Cost (incl. taxes)
Taxes                   1,280.5       -    1,280.5   4.74         -       4.74
TOTAL PROJECT COST    3,223.6  3,700.9  6,924.5  11.94    13.70   25.64
(net of taxes)
3.03       The base cost estimates for civil works are for December 1981.
These estimates are based on the unit cost of construction contracts in 1980
for similar buildings and on estimated price increases of 12% for 1981. The
base cost of new construction per square meter at the teachers colleges ranges
from US$400 for classrooms to US$450 for staff housing. The base cost of
construction per student place ranges from US$10,000 to US$13,000, with the
higher unit cost due to the distance from the coast and the relatively small
student body of one of the colleges. The average base cost of furniture is



- 16 -
US$600 per student. The base cost of equipment varies from US$700 to US$1,400
per student. These base costs for construction, furniture and equipment
compare favorably with those for similar institutions in the rest of the
region. The net-of tax base cost cf technical assistance is estimated at
US$8,700 per staff-month, including salary, allowances and overhead, and is
based on recent recruitment experience of the Government and international
organizations.
3.04      The project includes contingency allowances of 10% for civil works,
furniture, and equipment. The overall allowance for price escalation is about
27% of base cost plus physical contingencies. This is calculated on the basis
of the following annual price increases over the project implementation
period, for both local and foreign costs:
Category                 1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Construction                  12      10      9       8      7       7
Furniture                     10       8      8       8       7      7
Equipment                     10       8      8       8       7      7
Prof. Services                12      10      9       8       7      7
Technical Assistance           8       8      8       8       7      7
Fellowships                    8       8      8       8       7      7
Operating Costs               il      10     10      10       9      9
3.05      The estimated foreign exchange component of US$13.70 million repre-
sents about 45% of the total project cost of US$30.38 million (including
taxes). As a percentage of total costs (including taxes), this has been
calculated as follows: civil works, 27%; furniture, 13%; equipment, 100%;
professional fees, 28%; technical assistance, 80%; and fellowships, 80%.
Financing Plan
3.06      An IDA credit of Special Drawing Rights 12.2 million (US$14.0
million) and a grant of SF 7 mil:Lion (about US$3.5 million equivalent) from
the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation will jointly finance the teacher
training and project management components. The German Agency for Technical
Cooperation would provide the equivailent of about US$4.71 million to finance
the textbook component in parallel with the joint IDA and Swiss financing.
The financing plan is shown below. As conditions of effectiveness of the
IDA credit, all conditions necessary for an initial disbursement of funds from
the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation shall have been met and the grant
agreement between the Governments of Benin and the Federal Republic of Germany
shall have been executed.



- 17 -
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Total                                          of which
Cost    IDA    Swiss   German   Government   Taxes
Primary and Secondary
Teacher Training         16.55   8.86       2.21     -          5.48        3.24
Textbook Production
and Distribution          3.54    -          -      3.38        0.16        0.16
Project Management,
Evaluation and
Planning                  1.71   1.34       0.34     -          0.03        (.01
Total Base Cost            21.80  10.20       2.55    3.38        5.67        3.41
Physical Contingencies      2.18   1.02       0.25    0.34        0.57        0.34
Price Contingencies         6.40   2.78       0.70    0.99        1.93        0.99
Grand Total                30.38  14.00       3.50    4.71        8.17        4.74
3.07      Under this financing plan, the German Agency for Technical Coopera-
tion (GTZ) would finance 100% of the net-of-tax cost of the textbook produc-
tion and distribution component, as described in paragraphs 2.13 to 2.18.
3.08      Under this plan, the Swiss Agency for Technical Cooperation and
IDA will jointly finance 68% of the net-of-tax cost of the teacher training
component, described in paragraphs 2.05-2.12 and the project management
component, described in paragraphs 2.19-2.22.
3.09      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.2 million (US$14.0 million) would
finance about 55% of the total net-of-tax cost of the project. The credit
would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost (net of taxes) and 36% of the
local costs (net of taxes) of the teacher training and project management
components. The total external financing would cover about 87% of the total
net-of-tax cost. The Government would provide US$3.4 million, equal to 13% of
the total net-of-tax cost, and US$4.7 million for taxes.
Project Recurrent Costs
3.10      The project-assisted programs, at full operation in 1985, would
add US$1.35 million per year in 1981 US dollars to the Government's annual
recurrent budget. This would be equal to about 2.5% of the 1981 Government
recurrent budget for education. The table below summarizes the annual incre-
mental costs which would be generated by the project and their impact.



- 18 -
INCREMENTAI. RECURRENT COSTS
Annual Incremental Recurrent Cost
Project Component                                  1981 US Dollars
ENIs                                                  1,120,000
Textbook Production                                     230,000
Total                                            1,350,000
Government Budget for Recurrent
Expenditure on Education, FY81                     52,963,000
Total Annual Incremental Cost of Project
as % of 1981 Government Budget for
Recurrent Expenditure on Education                       2.5
3.11      The annual incremental recurrent costs generated by the project
would be relatively small when compared with the anticipated Government
expenditures on education at the time the project-assisted programs are fully
operational.  This is primarily c-ue to the fact that the Government would be
consolidating under the project the five temporary teachers colleges presently
in operation and that users woulcl have to purchase textbooks to cover most of
the cost of their production and distribution. Given the importance of
operating and maintaining the project-financed institutions adequately,
however, the Government gave assurances during negotiations that it will
submit to IDA before December 31, 1983, a detailed plan for providing adequate
budget and staff for the operaticn and maintenance of all the project-financed
construction (para. 2.12).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
4.01      IDA reviewed during appraisal the educational specifications and
the architectural sketch drawings for all the project components. In addition,
IDA reviewed prior to negotiations the design development architectural
drawings for the largest of the ENIs. The Government prepared the educational
programs with the assistance of the Unesco/World Bank Cooperative Program and
a private consultant on textbook production. Consultant architects are
preparing the architectural plans and specifications for the project. INFRE
is coordinating the preparation of textbook manuscripts. Project preparation
is being financed by: (a) US$200,000 for project preparation from the First
Education Project (Cr. 583-DA), and (b) US$1.0 million from two advances from
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).



- 19 -
4.02      The architectural bidding documents for all components are expected
to be completed by September 1982, about the time of project effectiveness and
construction of buildings and the installation of furniture and equipment
would be completed by December 1985. Provision of specialist services and
fellowships would continue until December 1987, when the entire project is
expected to be completed. The Closing Date of the IDA credit would be
June 30, 1988.
Project Management
4.03      As mentioned in para. 2.19, the Government has established a Project
Unit, located within the MEMGTP and headed by a full-time project director.
The Project Unit has two part-time deputy directors: one seconded from thie
Ministry of Planning and responsible for planning and budgeting, and the other
seconded from the Ministry of Public Works and responsible for supervision of
the architectural and construction work. The Government has also appointed a
full-time project accountant and will soon appoint a building technician and
four construction supervisors.
4.04      The Project Unit would manage the project and coordinate the work of
the three ministries involved with the project. The Government has established
an interministerial National Commission for Technical Education which will
advise the Project Director on the planning and implementation of the teaclher
training programs for technical and agricultural subjects and home economics.
4.05      The project would finance the specialist services of an assistant
to the project director and a coordinator of civil works to assist in imple-
menting the project and training the local project staff. The project-financed
auditor would also provide technical assistance to the Project Unit and thie
60 staff-months of project-financed fellowships will further help to train and
upgrade Project Unit staff (para. 2.19).
4.06      In the First Education Project (paras. 1.34-1.36) the Government was
not able to supervise adequately the construction of the project facilities.
The proposed project includes substantial investments in civil works which
would have to be carried out and supervised at three widely separated sites.
Therefore, to help supervise construction the Government has agreed to recruit
an assistant to the-coordinator for civil works, whose work would be financed
under the project.
Working Fund
4.07      To expedite project implementation, the Government will establish
in the Central Bank a working fund of CFAF 5.0 million (US$20,000). This
fund would be used to pre-finance local salary and operating costs and the
purchase of small items of equipment and materials. The Caisse Autonome
dAAmortissement would replenish the fund on a quarterly basis after reviewing
statements of expenditure. The Government gave assurances during negotiations
that it will establish the fund by July 1, 1982 and will replenish it on a
quarterly basis.



- 20 -
Specialist Services and Fellowships
4.08      The project will finance a total of 401 staff-months of technical
assistance and 313 staff-months of fellowships. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will: (a) appoint technical assistance
specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are
acceptable to IDA; and (b) award fellowships to suitably qualified candi-
dates who will serve at least two yesars in the positions for which they are
to be trained.
Sites
4.09      The Government has selected and has legal title to suitable sites
for all the project institutions. The Government has indicated that for each
ENI an adequate number of staff residences will be available and that it will
provide access, water, and electricity to each site. As a condition of dis-
bursement for the construction of any ENI, the Government will make adequate
arrangements to ensure the provision of access, water and electricity to the
site of that ENI. In addition, the Government gave assurances during negotia-
tions that, prior to commencing construction of any ENI, it will submit
satisfactory evidence to IDA that an adequate number of residences for
adminstrative and teaching staff are available near the site of that ENI.
Procurement
4.10      Civil works valued at US$17.7 million (including taxes) and furni-
ture and equipment valued at US$2.9 million (including taxes) would be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA's guidelines.  Items of furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped
into packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent, or which are not suitable for
international competitive bidding, would be procured in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA, or for items below US$20,000
and for which potential suppliers are limited, by inviting quotations from at
least three reliable suppliers whenever possible. The total value of items
procured by these methods would not exceed US$300,000. For all contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, IDA would review
bidding documents and bid evaluation documents before the contracts are
awarded. Domestic manufacturers would be given a preferential margin of 15%
of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the total applicable customs
duties and import taxes, whichevetr is lower. Domestic contractors would be
given a preference of 7.5% in the evaluation of bids for civil works. Tech-
nical assistance specialists will be recruited in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines issued in August 1981.
4.11      Procurement of goods and services related to the textbook component
which would be financed by the GTZ would be carried out in accordance with the
relevant guidelines of that agency.



- 21 -
Disbursements
4.12      IDA and the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation would jointly
finance the teacher training and project management components and IDA would
administer the Swiss funds. Since IDA would provide US$14.0 million equiva-
lent and the Swiss Government US$3.5 million equivalent, the IDA and Swiss
funds would be disbursed for relevant expenditures in a ratio of 4 to 1.
4.13      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against the
following items for the teacher training and project management components,
as follows:
(a)  40% of total civil works expenditures - US$6,400,000;
(b)  64% of total expenditure for furniture and equipment - US$1,760,000;
(c)  64% of total expenditure for professional fees for local
specialists - US$560,000;
(d)  80% of total expenditure for consusltants and specialist
services - US$1,600,000;
(e)  80% of total expenditure for fellowships - US$400,000;
(f)  64% of total expenditure for operating costs - US$120,000;
(g)  100% of the withdrawn PPF funds - US$1,000,000;
(h)  US$2,160,000 would be unallocated.
4.14      Disbursements have been estimated on the basis of the schedule
of implementation summarized in Annex 10, taking into account the average
amount of time which Government is likely to require.to prepare and submit
withdrawal applications.  The disbursements profile (Annex 11) also reflects
country-wide experience in Benin, region-wide experience with education
projects in West Africa, and the relatively large size of the project.
4.15      All disbursements from the credit account would be fully doCumented
except for operating costs under category (g), which would be disbursed
against certified statements of expenditure, with the documentation not to be
submitted to IDA but held by the Project Unit for review by IDA supervision
missions. The total amount of disbursements against statements of expendi-
tures is estimated at US$ .15 million, representing about 1% of the credit
amount. These expenditures would be in local currency and disbursement would
be made only to reimburse the Government. Disbursement against certified.
statements of expenditure is the only reasonable method to disburse against
category (g), since the expenditures would be small and numerous and for the
Project Unit's operating costs. With the strengthening of the Project Unit
and the auditing arrangements (paras. 4.04-4.06), the institutional capability
to handle this procedure is expected to be adequate. A statement concerning
disbursements against certified statements of expenditure is at Annex 12.



- 22 -
Accounts and Audits
4.16      The Project Unit would establish accounts for the project, in
accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. Given the
limited expertise within the MEMGTP on accounting and auditing, the IDA
credit would finance: (a) techn:ica:L assistance from an independent auditing
firm prior to credit effectiveness to assist the Government in establishing
a suitable accounting system for the project; (b) annual audits by an
independent auditing firm; and (c) additional periodic technical assistance
to the project accountant as a fc1llow-up to the annual audit. During nego-
tiations the Government gave assurarnces that: (a) the project accounts will
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the audits will be
conducted annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied; (b) the audit reports will be of such scope and in such
detail as IDA may reasonably request, and will include the auditors' opinions
on the project accounts; (c) it will provide IDA with such other relevant
information concerning the accourit cnd the audit as IDA may reasonably request;
and (d) the accounts and audit reports, including a separate opinion by the
auditors on disbursements against cehrtified statements of expenditure, will be
submitted to IDA for review within six months of the close of the Government's
fiscal year.
Evaluation
4.17      The Project Director would submit quarterly progress reports to IDA.
In addition, the Government gave assurances during negotiations that it
will submit to IDA within six months of the completion date of the project a
final report on the implementation experience and achievements of the project.
As noted above (para. 2.17), a project financed specialist would work with
MEMGTP and INFRE to monitor the use and impact of the project-financed text-
books on educational outcomes at the primary and lower secondary level and to
assist the MEMGTP in evaluating the overall project.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Economic Justification
5.01      The project would focus on improving the quality of primary and
lower secondary education and would yield important economic benefits. First,
there is considerable research evidence showing that improving the quality
of graduates at those levels leads over the long term to (a) improved worker
productivity, (b) availability of an increased number of skilled workers to
meet priority manpower requirements, and (c) greater opportunities for employ-
ment and self-employment among graduates. Second, investments in quality
should considerably improve, over the long term, the cost efficiency of the
education system through gradually helping to reduce dropout and repetition
rates and lowering the cost per graduate.



- 23 -
5.02      The project would have other important economic benefits.  First:,
increasing the output of qualified primary school teachers will allow the
Government to expand access to primary education more rapidly and in a more
equitable fashion than would otherwise be possible. Second, training teachers
for vocational, technical, and agricultural subjects will allow the Government
to orient secondary education more toward preparing students to meet priority
manpower requirements.
Educational Benefits
.5.03     The main benefits of the project for the education system would be
an increase in the numbers of qualified primary and lower secondary schoo]
teachers and the distribution of textbooks to primary and lower secondary
students throughout the country. The Government is now training about 800
teachers per year for the primary level in temporary programs of low quality
and there is no training for teachers for the junior secondary level. By
1985, the project-financed ENIs will train to a high standard in permanent:
facilities about 675 teachers for the primary level and 260 teachers for the
junior secondary level. In addition, there are practically no educational
materials in use in the education system and the project would assist in
producing an average of about 470,000 textbooks per year for the primary and
lower secondary schools. The project would also assist in strengthening
project management, the maintenance of school buildings, and INFRE-s capacity
fEor textbook preparation. Overall, this institutional development, together
with the increase in the number of qualified teachers and the production of
itextbooks, is expected to significantly improve the quality and efficiency of
education at the primary and lower secondary levels, as well as establish a
lbase for future expansion at those levels.
Riisks
5.04      The project faces two important risks.  First, there is a risk that
the lack of experience in training teachers for technical and agricultural
subjects and home economics may hamper the effective operation of these
streams at the teachers colleges. There is a similar risk that the lack
of experience with operating a full-scale textbook production unit could
constrain the implementation of the textbook component. The project has
addressed these problems by ensuring that the related educational programs
were prepared in detail prior to negotiations and by financing technical
assistance and fellowships for the training of local staff to operate these
programs. Second, there is a risk that the Government may not be able to
esffectively manage the construction of the large and widely dispersed civil
works to be financed under the project. This risk is increased by the fact
that this would be the first Bank Group assisted education project within
ithe MEMGTP. These issues have been addressed through (a) advancing the archi-
itectural work to the stage of preliminary drawings prior to negotiations,
(b) reviewing project management issues with the Government in detail during
appraisal, and (c) strengthening the Project Unit with technical assistance
in all key areas.



- 24 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a)  it will take all steps necessary by June 30,1987 to upgrade and
expand the upper secondary agricultural school in Sekou and to
establish three new lower secondary agricultural schools and that
it will exchange views with IDA periodically on the progress of
execution of that programi (para. 2.10);
(b)  it will transfer sufficient staff, equipment and students from
existing teacher training colleges to the ENIs to make the ENIs
fully operational and that it will then close the six existing
colleges for training primary and lower secondary school teachers
(para. 2.11);
(c)  it will submit to IDA before December 31, 1986, a study on the use
and impact of the project-financed educational materials, carried
out in accordance with a research design which is satisfactory to
IDA and that it will exchange views with IDA on that study (para.
2.17);
(d)  it will employ a project director, two deputy directors and a
project accountant during the entire project implementation period
(para. 2.20);
(e)  it will submit to IDA before December 31, 1983, a detailed plan
for providing adequate budget and staff for the operation and
maintenance of all project-financed construction (para. 3.11);
(f)  it will establish a working fund by July 1, 1982 and will replenish
the fund on a quarterly basis (para. 4.07);
(g)  it will appoint technical assistance specialists whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference are acceptable to IDA (para. 4.08);
(h)  it will award fellowships to suitably qualified candidates who
will serve at least two years in the positions for which they are to
be trained (para. 4.08);
(i)  it will submit evidence to IDA, prior to the start of construction
at any ENI, that an adequate number of residences for staff are
available near the site of that ENI (para. 4.09);
(j)  the project accounts will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA (para. 4.16); and
(k)  it will submit to IDA within six months of the completion date
of the project a final report on the implementation experience
and achievements of the project (para. 4.17).



- 25 -
6.02      During negotiations, the Government agreed, as a condition of
disbursement for the construction of any ENI, to provide access, water
and electricity to the site of that ENI (para 4.09).
6.03      As conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit:
(a)  the following technical assistance specialists shall have taken Up
their positions: an assistant to the project director, a coordina-
tor of works, a maintenance specialist, and an independent auditor
(para. 2.20);
(b)  all conditions necessary for an initial disbursement of funds from
the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation shall have been met;
(para. 3.06); and
(c) the grant agreement between the Governments of Benin and the Fedejral
Republic of Germany shall have been executed (para. 3.06).
6.04      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA credit of Special Drawing
Rights 12.2 million (US$14.0 million) to The People's Republic of Benin.



- 26 -
COMPARATIVE ÊLIUCATION INIIICATORS
imusi 1
p«.   f 2
APRIL 15, 19B2
CENT RAI-'
BOUT. :
13NF                        :Exp.  OMI                                                                                    F'RI .   :RECURRENT:
EllucA7 lil                               EFRI        '.COMF'I.Ë-                               CUtil '.PROGRi-SS- f SEC                 t           ilUIltif v
z                    T                         Z 7 7             REI:(JRREMT               ACY               NFlOL:liDN                  :IIENT       F'R    M    ED.:TC)N  RAT I'               NRD         1 ENI FI: F NROI 1
FIAN    1 7         GNi:         EN7RAL:EXP    A              CAI E Il;    RATE            RATIO   :RFI              FOR:F'ER        :AS    X    CNP/:FROM    F'R I    F, Al 10              FE F'    : F'Al 1 [3
GOI)l
F-0F:-   :PR 1: CI 5:  J'F Vol F 1,                                                          OF:        MFT         F'RI .  CH. 'TEA                 CAP1 TA         :TJ    SEE.             Ni, T       1 EACH-   GRWUI
K
yp: m 1  1 5.         (Ljff    10    Efifi.    E X P.             F-R I     S E C.  FIT    AIIIJL 1 5)           (Y)         Cyct-E (% > :ER                                                                       R
1q)
------------                                                                                                                                                                        ----    -------
e,             7 4           5 1 15        1       5: IL,          9: IK         21 1      IIY                                                 93C             26            1(:7c               9 511,           sL'C         1 9c              w'y
1  -1   Il   '           Il  L           1   IK        -1        Il        l1         99           11)(            1( 0              2 1           1 7   6             (O              9                               O(
A'"'Y   FI''.  F                        I     O
GL FIMNIN                  y                   O 3(              4.I1l         8: 41,            jL                          99                          100E,
71                                                                             7ui    1 1          99                                                                                                                 p             O o
11.4 .9H         'OOI1        ,   3LI,                                                                                    99                5                               99              9..,           2 o L,            d'Y
9 3' w        I 3: BC,       20        35                     99            96              93                                                99              82            1 3         1     (O
NF w                       '/"3'    '': 'j                                                                                                                                  Î, 9                13
Il w   Y                            l,            -, 1         I -            , -,  B,       31I       24                    99            9 9             99              2              1, 9: 4             99E                           IV           l,:,,
e.,     4                 O                            36        54        2 4        1 s        99             PY
Y                                                                           9 9             1 6             5 B               99              6-                              u
M                             Fi      B 3   1Ol i4(              8. 13F W      1 0. 1 L        3 7       1 1       1           9 9           9 9            IC"D              1 6f7        2 2   7            1 0 0
/Fi   ,, ë.,D      4 , ', y 6 E     t,  6           2.4K          26        39         l          99            99              11) O                         1 2' 3            IOG               é,             1
1:3  2 113. 5    9, Y 7O           7                   VK                  57**   1 8            9 9           y 9                                                                                                          - D. é,
99                                                9y              9             III         4[  00
'El1                          y 4,    4, 3 5 OH          2. lW         1 0. 6FI    -,j 7         -1 Il,                96A           IV               B2C             3 1             6. 2?           701,              B(            2 7         1 5. (O
IL 1 OH      5. iw                         43 y      4 l Y      14Y         9 H         1(exy             99A             3 5                             9 A                                               47Y
F Ui: 1     P                        Y. f3FI  1 , ?4OH           3. 6w         1. C). 7F       41,       2 l                   71 CI         8               6 1)             1 9                e
9     1 -f;OH        4                1 .9K        3ë,        IV                   98           1(L                               211                             YB
fl                   'l: (A                            y         y
hi K                            3 7 1      3 -Y é'OH                                                                                         x Y                             A                                                            2
4          R. (K         49         22                    9(            L 5                             3 5                                                 L3xy        3
e,ï F 1 F"
P1 k C C,              7                          O Fi           1 W         ...          34K       '6K       21 K        35H         9IXK              4 5             37K            1 1: 9              l K             33K,
1          5        1 1         4,                30              46              4   0           3(                1 L           43
F,                     7         3. 4            O               5           3                                                                                                                                                           37K           Fi. O(KX
wA                   Y      (.6         720             6 2             1. 9. 3       4H        20          1I        3 5         9 4                7 4             3 2           2 2. 0            3 -li             2(
2.               O: iG        44       33I                   25          25X               34              3 5
61,    3.1        4 -1        0                       O                                                                                   2 5 X       '7             0   B
74                                       OoLC                                                                                                     52                                                                            0. ;Oc
'1   21011           3                                 FI        B                                                                             , IB                                  9
y         21 .A                                   XY
6 9                 5             G                 8           ?7E-Y         O..2j y
3i)             651CY                                               2XIlY       3 n           c   01.11y
VIX             65              4 5                               Ci                1.          30
ILlOH                                                            ' 1        5(26OK  4L  1 4  2OE:                                              o           5"
i5                                    4         3';                               133              6I              6,3           llï  3A           4 B               3 -3 x        2,l           3. 40
fF i     o 4                                                         0       4                                      3                            41(^                                                B"          1 Y
440                               0. Il                  I,
7B                   4(                                                                                                                                                           6(
3                            5               LI . 3H       -1Oli,                            4 1
7Y                                                                                                     4            7"                                                              B
74        O. éH   3'                                                                                                                                                                                  9           41
fL'w       . . .        -2 C F,     9 L'   1 1 o         ...         101'y             2tic            49C             4. 71           lI3A              31. y         21E         CI, 29Y
71,          1,                      3-  W                         41        2b          1         1( IO.  H 1  oti  20          90              3 3E'         44. 7              9 2                             2 5
U AN                      74            I)         I(H
^CF                                                       y                               E,
U"I  ME 1)                                                                                                                                  6 XY            6 2 El          3                                                  3111xy        1 6Cy           ""Y
ti .  H     "ë,(F[                                IN    4i          2
4..;l                     3 O       3                                    30X             64              4 5           31.I              sé,               13XY          26            4:OD
8:  IL    I                                                         6        I'D 1 OW  45:  33   4C   Il>0            86              43            26   0             47                  7x          26            164Y
NA                     7'2      1            3FO                 Y           1 ' 9I,    71           Y         4                       92              7 4             40              5 8             4 t                  9           .8               O
Flo                                                                            K                                      4 -.,
L k S ) 1                 7 Il                    34F)                          2I V3         41.                                           6BX             32              49              B. 0            6.51               1 5           2- 3          0 90
.77
R1 A                          I  711       46OFI         3     w         1: 31        23                                             51,                             5 4           27:91             7 6
MA" 1) GI                            8.3FI         2OFj         4 Ow                          53        ?a         1 Y        5             90                              44                              3B
PIW1                  7Y        1 Y             (Il                                                                                                     3                                                                ï             - 3
MAL                                  1             2             2. 2FIW         8. 7r,        40        23                    2.5 1         5lXE            17H            62H            1 0 0 G          50E                  6 K         2 1
I3»h                      4   2MW       111  7K         45                  1 B         1 OE          22                              4BE                             50E                  6X          2 1           ...
16            22            f,                                        -5                  17            32              60              4F              2 0
9H       920FI                             F, K      5                               8(             94              1?9             24            1 9 Ei
PQ            t,                                                                                                      X
MAUF Il lL;                                                     4. 7w           -?              0       2 il                                                                                                 3OC,              4 t9;         3
hop   fl'OEI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IF,
9                          6. 3w          17.            32        44        260         2 B            7              35              39            1 9 7             49                    x                       4 50
Gf R                   7y            oFi       '24CIII       ?.BU          23. 30          5         4 3                                                                                                 I'D               -5            2
5           8           1                               39            3B7
9                                 Cy                                            1  Xy         )
5O                                                                  2           24
CI F                   7 4       O  6FI        60DH          4                             23Y       16Y       42Y         ...           47XY                                                                                0             OEIY        0., sy
R'JAN                      B (       5 C)          200           3               0   7         6 2        17                                  6                               3
: LCY      29: Mi                              1 1         2 3             6                             40                                                   2             3           0. 40
SENF   A L                 7 7       5.4M          3 6O FI       5. 0          1 B. 511:       4 6       34        20           111           1 2                            4 9           21   IA            20                IOX           21            1  5
SIER   1)  L E  )NE        73        -1.-M         230 Fi        3.4W          1 ëI. 0         3 1       36        3            I            3 4                             32             13   7c          6S                   3           21            0   53AY
SDmALl A                 7B        3. 3yll             Il      2. ow           8. j IL       5I.-I     1 (       ,                                                                                                            1
M       ' "5                               H                           -                          44                              32                              40                  5           15                  OO
SUDAN                      7 6        y4           341)                                H       4P        36
WAZ  LAN['                                             Fl-'    4. IW           5. 2                                                                         74              33            426. '                             1                           1 .-')
0 Ill         51FFO         6     1                                                                     34                                                              3'i                 4           24
1                               'ci                13      37        33          3         611-1        92                              37               7              66                   2           20                 4
A                  7          7 1           2 3 0             INW        1.3K         430                             66             Y el                            5 B                               y                 4           20 ij
SANZ' NIA                                                                U    21,  4                                                            X            49                                  7B                            3 x
l',                                 6. Il                                   1 9       i                                         8 7                           1   .1F                                                         ' 3OX
77       2 4           3 20M         5     w         25: 7G        30                                             7 4
1 E) CIL                                .Il                                                              21:1                                                40              5 B            il   30           52                              4 4           2.080
T LIN 1 S 1 e,               9                                   9
a         L                M           el  9         41D                             6             OO                               39
UGANLIA                                                                                                            2                                         S(                             IM                3                 30            O            600
7             4        28i)                                                                                           X^
12.  él              Fi      3. 4cy                            DY   400Y   22[:y                Fl                        ...                 o^                                                XEIY
34                  -           2             53                              34                                4                 6           -1            0 56Y
LJF F'E LZ  VOL TA          7î1      t'. élFq          0F-l           4                        3 1       1 6       3Cl           5C            3                                                ..           , II
7                        4 0             O                         41I-                                                          2 3                           52. I ,           1                   2           25            10
ZAI: RE                            2 6. IFFI       2     H"      6.  w                                   26        25          1 5           8 6             4 4             42            20.OA             4 19               13X           27                Dox
.2                      9 5                             4 B                              9                  6           22                50
z                          B 1     7 7             7( (              6                         é-          -         6                       9 D                                                             B                  1                          O .
11-                2 3                   44                            GO                            1 2. 9            1                                              1
6 .                5                   3`                     1 1                           5 FI            39            '10. 0              5                 5           23                50
Ci NI RAIL  AM 1: FL 1: [A  AND   1H[   CARIPFlIAN
E,BAHAMAS                   7Y       0: 2      2^ 1111^          Il : 5,14        1: 1 K       3,1       3 é,      1C          Y 3           99X             9 7             2 4                                9 7             751 x
ARBADC                                            OIIO         IL  tw         - .7K         43         3                                                   99              21                                99              94              7
COSTA                                                                                                               1           9Y          1"                                              i ':F                                            Il ,          :
80                    ^8              8.4          3      1,       40        2;1.         3         9IF           93                                              V
3                                         7y              33                                77              40
lUElA                     7 L            7                                                                                                                                                     . 1                                           2 7         1 4 0 0
OOC)         a   O                                                          96            9B              9 G             22                                9 B             65            1             El
Il CI M 1 N l C A N R I_ F. 7 2       I.H                 M                                                                                                                                   4'                6 3             1 4                       1
9 ( O         3   0                                                                                                       5 4                                                               5
64(H         4:1)          I    3 1.      1147                            6 2           89X              3               39
EL   !3AL VAI DR           7         4 3 Il                                                                                                                                                      5 B                                         24            7 01)
C" Li A F E m A 1 A         yi       6: 6H         y-iOM          1  Y               (.,K      55        23'                                                                                                   41              23            21            7 00
''          4Y            64              26              IL,                               69
_l                                                                                                             25            4,09Y
5(                              AI            1 -0
Ïl 111, 114 1                                                                                    I         9                   -.3                                                                                                  F
1 5 F    9F         î(E          713             3(              3 5             2. B"F            6B
1 K         -'F                                                                                         9                 62                4           2 7           1 1
A C                   7         1             4 BO^         4                            6
El                                                                                                                                                                                                              17            4ü0
"Il,                                                                            113.4li        37        43        -0          90             9EI            99              40              2. 3               95                            22                OC)
9D        6 7, 4 1  1:11,11          5:              Il. 713       41,       -1 Y                   Y 2           Ill             I 1             44              9 . 5             86              56            17
MN E xc A i 'A' G j A                   5;                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S:
2 6 ,O                       1     IF                                                                                                                                                                    O   30
3r.     1II         9 D L         6 1               4             44                                9 IF,             4L          37                001,
E,               7                                                        'K       4,,B                            7FiA           97             B               32               1                 65G             49            34
13                                                                                                             Ll                          7                                                   c       27(:
9             9 Ii            ? 1                             0.                4 9             6 2           24
KILITH All
MA                                                 4:4W            8: 3K         4 3 C,    31F        1 ËI L,    9',j
CI L' 1 1) 1 A                                                                                                                              B 9                                                               87              3 1
78Il                                  5 1          i 1   SK                              ..        4- 't         B( C           9              24
PRAZIt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3:
75                     5fj 1 Il Il                                                                                                                                                                               I"C
CHILE                                                                                                                           64A           B13F                            27                                                                5           6
75       0:7                                                                  ic       "Dy                        19X                             35Y             B                                                                   SY
3   a           'i                     2                                                                    32                                                                          1
6
Fil                                                         1  By
19, ?H i         7OFI              Ry      1               2iY         OY                               1       y                                         ...                               2
OM                    Flo     2           141:lO                3          5. OH         351                                                                                                                                  X Y                     6
1,            ,',           3            2                                                                                                                                                4             ...
CF R             s(                       3  9F.       6:OP                          45        31                                                                                 1 6. és
LIA D                                                                                                                                                                                       :B?A                           4B            -1
R. 8H                                                                                     9 1         1 O I             4B              3 1             2 1               86              4 7           1 6           2B: O
4         83            51.-                                          1       FI
","Y,)"                     7"       O              E;O          5 ilN               4H        47        3i         1               A             X           3 9             3 3             9 B
F R A G IL A                 Y                           H                       Ci.                                                                                                                            19                2X          24            1   DO
3                           14                           42         1. 7     '1 0        a 4           8               3 2             2 B             3 1 R
77 5                                                      î L.     40        2 2        1 5         7"              12            3B              9              1.                70              4exy
O                                          y          y
9 4K        46        34                    9 4            y -3
ElH         UOK         4.2CY         1I                                                                                                 y                           75              2               2'          7: 0 0
R''LJAy                                                                                                                                 1     x y                                       1                                                     C y     1
VIF                                                                                                                                                                                                 2 3           A   41Y
CF  " F                    7 31      4                                                                                                                                                            3E            83
)F MI zlil: 1A                           (FI2 8   )H            4. 6W               9K        3014    2BQ         3 5Ll       77A           8 L                             33               ...             ...                                               3Cy



- 27 -
AIR'>IL  1-   19832                                                                               ANNEX  i
Page 2 of 2
ClI, >>E'  >0              31>5>   os:  E:EE>10ATICN            :1.1-T kl -Ft      k 031,  [28'> E -         IU- I.3NI TC601>  :3k>(R>>                     53V     FIST-  1>0>1 FH: 
*  . ATI                       W/   11>    I  RLEIJkREN1            :063          :L-NR>>   T7ION             WiIE2Nl S:E'RI M      E EU'.: (0JN  RATE      1830 N      >3035:1>03D
901.,3F LT .'    (RmF'   trET>0   :XF'  ALi E(>3A0  E Lit    RATE    RA 01 1':RAIE  Fi.k: l'EF k                   :IAS  22  r383:18>3>3  FR]. :901I JE>   :1                RAT >1 (3
F  F.    i '.'>: Ei    IL ' :)1        >4> ~C I           ''>,          :    36.>        NF- <     F>  t                       C33>  1>9>1  1>  :7    EI.        N: 33  :32 LI>2>:i4r
1,23>02 0)  '-r>                      S'Yi LIl    t  .> 1 E'     X      ~ Pi         - 1'    23'           .scc   :                            .R                           (Y)                                   i 4
FIE I 0.>                                               9.6,~~~~~~~~~l(4  (4 23      Or                                   .             2                                                                   4>>3('  .[
r'>'> 'NE   33                                                                          32014 ,t     l  I 1I    2 1   1Y0 F''y 43>                                             >                                      2.>'>> 1  iil
'((4 1 P'A(5Yi ,>                             E'''>> 3î t>34                               >24  1 '          e , 12>'                    4 0                                     >30                                    4.2.'y
Kol»            ~           -  ,   I          Ilk '03>  .,/'4.6,                                                       9(06X           .. ....                                  . ..           '353'        2t          8,475y
13           S  >3.43                  1     2>3        4 1;                                233           23rF                                         4F          43        3)>O
3.> r>>'          3>(r        2'>'~~~~1l  2'.w         Ê..                  2.                 ''44                      52 9,.-                                                                          >303>
r' I rudrE . 'IrE           .:>.»3       .2>> r3 4Ll  51  9'.      >2                           'r)       >04            7:0I         2                          '6>60           (44K>        '4y93
>3".»              >13       o  'F                                                                          »»~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'4 t i,X     E 4Il I5                 2 AS                  1.2. IOo
''I   1"F3                                 >2.0>---    O  o>  0>.I,                        ti                           Pl.  .e ,                   '                          . , .Y          '4l,        '''>        5.823
r> î3>  L   3 > >''''            44i  r  o                                                                                     3,20          t! >3                                      3,          >9          2,,
l'>rr  3  >el il ..     î                                           i,Il >13'> 3>3'  ELi2'                Y         1>>             II(3          >1.              0         73.           100i          99         3>2'bi
1 IIl, l~dII    "'.0 yLt  u.>             92       2         »        'r"'      12>36 y       6                y         y '>     (243 . 3 .9'6         93>    >   45>           1.»>3
[-3>rF2  >IE3(t3'3'F>H                               2.>.         2,>. W      40 l       S      L 'Y'     96        933             9>            423           Y  9         91              436         2         1.3>'I E
3132>0I           >  4l2'                               >3,.0         4.      2'>      1>>       Fr0         >2            6.5-          2 44 123                    FrR            2           2' el.Fi
.3>2l  E>  Lf 1b I,                 2-'A4,I2                            3       2>        25Tr                       3            '>         l'               >               l                       .
f6Y939>>E  0>IL.  (>O1>3   033,0j      J>0>3                       O  39           il>9  y3y 333>:           4        >23>E3  13>1'>                                     »(3331>1121'>)>9
>33>1>3   Rt>  (>3-' RE- t'> t ('>1.13   0>  3 97 '  3 -'l-                                             :l . 1                         .4- 
>4>3 01)3>6>6,>>> E'                ~     ~t) r 92 3  y8)Et>> 8»1                                  9 33>2K         0>!                       6>3E [981    081   2  34(3           , ES   8>   AT LA
1 t    >0l3;  311>   09'   33 ST(('  93>                                           R2.            (i AT 391i  y330   .       1                                                          0k 1y814    MISSIONS C
mi639> -l At3E   3413('>MR                                                                  'r  3>,   <133  3>9   1>020] 3>3  343E'   08   Y                               TO24   >8k'    [3>9684
9*  39'i     31   3(3    >63                           1929k                                 T   31    N'4     AI    11>1.[>1 Y                                   L0i 813/                        UNESC
11 UI   Ni   CT.   E ll,1   1 'I EFz(r   392                           [E :I 0>( 01>13 FNRA                01.5111110
Litit SI    ON(Ilit                É. :~lN >92                               V)  (3L L)I I>' >(  F95501         E NAl1                     C~~MS RPF>3N10>9        2      AORPOFEF KATLA
Kz. 919/2                                W' PL>6'L  6 CE XF'3 N31>1  331F<  >1NLY
Mzl >933                                    >wW  . .N tc(  S>>321>>.R»
>203'0>A> >2' E'E361IJE    300  0>0 toI333    13  131    09   20309 (31 0033>',  '»I(  T 33>3S0]SIMS    81   9>0>53>    0F-E O-V -AOE-(3-F1-8!-03-
A>2CUF0325  SF- TH>E  DOTA.  >30k>3t    I,>.)>3,   5>3   ApF> II >1>3>L  (99t kF L 6T1  NR  3.003                                  RE.SF'E:.'IS  08LI T>HE  BANK>  >0 Wl3RRINEE                 I>SMPR0OVE  TH3EM
F'k0E33>;;IVIY3(   13   E30  1>30  3>>23.>>> 3>   33   >1>2  >3F'F3;0  3>tFA,10>,1>03R.  EN  13>1  I33t3  (If      HESE   901 A.  193F  F33>L3W0808     >>ALF 1rcA01   oNs  SH(EULII BE  BORkNE  EN
P2> 'E'RMOF'3 1 93>360300    9123UN   33>3>  1>3)   0>1>20l71 1330   AT' T Hoîl       ,"          3>30>  3>2E     ON>',1F;1 "03F r 12(3>3>y>35   E>'>l>20>A  T1) R > 18  kF E R E>  13>I   L3.   14>33I2C0A1 3>38  A T  T'6>6E  SE6C08N3fiA85
0330'LOT3>> 1 RE353CF~SII          '1   > (t   3>1>313)IE0N.R  ,1 >33,3>33>20>A  ,  A L', R1EL>  1133>0  3  i
lI(>>3it1~ li>3>    IAY(N      ll D                   N331  4  33 (18(1    >r>'7 30>   (33 N >)V    131>3033 FI A»  S'E3MF3 tt 3331WE31 I tR»>t>C)S IFRpT(   3'>
>4> "13>1>r [3    KFIKE >31'> T>>1E   i39  E [34>203' ('8 tI 3;>> Et 4  APL,'i 5>   >3.3:3I :1>3>  T>>  AI 3  >.F'31o1.  ANU' 33 CLORRE Ni  351f->NI'>T lI[RES  ['3EV31 Et'i 1(3  E.U>13>201 [31N  83
38M  >33  0l'E'APROF    313 AI  >3 L>> 1-01 ,     F>I31 36  ON>>  33+33Vol El 93  t     VIi .  13>13 y 13 0RE-T E N  3t>.>ÇT  3»C  A  W416>3~  80A65N  0F' EIR>R(                   IN 1>  lIER   81.VE0.14 IN3>
3'0>>NF1 Fk>    CIW 034303(    Tl t> TA 000 1>3>3  IN3  13(1' 032633A0>Y  LI  9033i>3>.   .  AGI1'  PFD.6  F0    33>3.0  3338  A036>  31N1O».  88EN>0>     ENREILL MENT' FIGURES
3 R3>30  NI> Ni    01EAR    9333>31-k  >9H08  1>31  lr>3E> 3' [IF>T332'î'r0. >303,A    S  EN                              OV33>>       3E>3AL)31>  ST14>IIE1 NIE; (WH E   IN(200331(3>N  35  I81)1A1EU>  133Y
F33(>Tr'33> il>'>     C A.: I[3 L6     A 1>3 -9>3 3'9F'Al'   (>33>.



ANNEX 2
BENIN-SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM/STRUCTURE DU SYSTEME D' ENSEIGNEMENT
FIRST LEVEL                   SECOND LEVEL                   THIRD LEVEL
PREMIER DEGRE                  SECOND DEGRE                  TROISIEME DEGRE
PRIMARY EDUCATION             SECONDAFRY EDUCATION             HIGHER EDUCATION
ENSEIGNEMENT DE BASE        ENSEIGNEMENT MOYSEN GENERAL      ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR
ENI/1             ENI/MG
EN I/MT
TECHNIQUE  TECHNICAL
CP I      CP2                CPU
ENS         INE
VIE ACTIVE /WORK
ABREVIATIONS / ABBREVIATIONS
ENI    ECOLE NORMALE INTEGREE
ENI/I   FORMATION DES INSTITUTEURS
ENI/MG  FORMATION DES PROFESSEURS DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT MOYEN GENERAL
ENI/MT  FORMATION DES PROFESSEURI DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE
CP1, CP2 COMPLEXE POLYTECHNIQUE, NIVEAU 1 ET NIJE AU 2
CPU    COMPLEXE POLYTECHNIQUE UNIJERSITAIRE
ENS    ECOLE NORMALE SUPERIEURE
INE    INSTITUT NATIONAL D'EDUCATION
ENI    INTEGRATED TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
ENI/I   PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
ENI/MG  JUNIOR GENERAL SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
ENI/MT  JUNIOR TECHNICAL SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
CP1, CP2 TECHNICALAND AGRICULTURAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS, JUNIOR AND SENIOR LEVEL
CPU     HIGHER TECHNICIAN TRAINING
ENS    HIGHER SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
INE    NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION
Source: UNESCO
World Bank-23457



BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Enrollment Pyramid, 1978/
Pyramide des effectifs scolaires, 1978
SchooL Year/           Boys/                                                                 Girls/             Total/
Année d'étude           Garçons (%)                                                     Filles (%)              Total
1/ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~      ~                    --                '1
Higher/Supérieure -/                                                                    Higher / Supérieure(l%) -
Total           2.297 (83%)                                                          461 (17%)             2.801
6                 30                                                                  6                      36
5                 __
4                157                                                                 28                     185
3                224                                                                 52                     276
2                554                                                                102                     656
1              1.357                                         [                      273                  1.648
Secondary/ Secondaire                                                                   Secondary/ Secondaire
Total          46.976 (73%)                                                       17.299 (26.9%)         64.275 (15%)
7 (T)          2.890                                                              1.106                  3.996
6 (le)         2.942                                                                960                  3.902
5 (2e)         3.896                                                              1.216                  5.112
4 (3e)         6.983                                                              2.825                  9.808
3 (4e)         9.012                                                              3.216                 12.228                  1
2 (5e)         9.469                                                              3.484                 12.953
1 (6e)        11.784                                                              4.492                 16.276
Primary/Educ.de Base                                                                    Primary Education/Education de Base (84%)
Total         237.151 (66.4%)                                                    120.197 (33.6%)        357.348
6             30.770                                                             14.412 (31.9%)         45.182
5             26.692                                                             12.700 (32.0%)         39.392
4             29.853                                                             14.442 (32.6%)         44.295
3             38.219                                                             19.277 (33.5%)         57.496
2             51.633                       __      . ______28.954 (35.9%)                               80.587
1             59.984                                                             30.412 (33.6%)         90.396
b0#   40    30    20    sa      a     la   20
Source: Statistiques Scolaires MEPD/DEP No.14, 1979
1/  Statistics for Higher Education relate to 1977, collected by a UNESCO mission in 1978



- 30 -
BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION                         ANNEX 4
PRIMARY EDUCATION / ENSEIGNEMENT DE BASE
PROJECTIONS OF ENROLLMENT AND TEACHER REQUIREMENTS, 1978 - 1987
EVOLUTION DU TAUX DE SCOLARISATION ET DES BESOINS EN MAITRES DE 1978 A 1987  SELON LES HYPOTHESES RETENLES
School-Age Popu-                                                       Enrollment Ratio by Simu-  Teacher Requirements
Year/  lation/Popula-                 1/                                 1/   lation/Taux de Scolarisa-  by Simulation/Besoin
Année  tion Scolari-    Simulation 1-   Simulation 2-    Simulation 3-    tion selon les Simulation  Maitres Nouveaux selon
sable                                                                                               les Simulations 2/
5 à 11 ans                      ,                 __ _                  1         2         3        1        2        3
1977      689,0           293.653            293.653           293.653          42,6     42,6      42,6       -        -        -
1978      708,0            315.957           328.639           337.980          44,6     46,4      47,7      314      567     755
1979      728,1            338.593           365.352           381.921          46,5     50,2      52,5      487      769     913
1980      748,5            362.188           403.523           428.318          48,4     53,9      57,2      517      807     973
1981      769,4            346.169           402.615           436.922          49,0     52,3      56,8      238       66     257
1982      791,0            356.124           428.557           471.970          45,0      54,2     59,7       62      622     805
1983      813,1            373.600           453.526           506.194          45,9     55,8      62,3      446      598      785
1984      835,9            389.203           477.055-          53-5.284         46,5     57,1      64,0      401      561      675
1985      859,3            403.554           497.775           561.566          46,9     57,9      65_3      398      529     641
1986      883,3            416.968           516.421           585.149          47,2     58,5      66,2      402      510     611
1987      908,1            429.256           533.618           607.061          47,3     58,8      66,8      380      572     578
1/ (a) Simulation 1: Le système évolue avec tuie faible augmentation du taux de scolarisation, en ne tenant
compte que du taux d'accroissement de la population (2,6%) qui est appliqué à la tranche d'âge de aSi
ans. Les enfanta scolarisés en première année représentent 70% dé la classe dt'ge de six ans. Les
effectifs de première année comprendraient donc chaque année 7C% de la classe d'âge de six ans tenant
ainsi compte de l'accroissement naturel de la population./Enrollment in the firet year of primary
at the same rate se the population (2.6i), with the base being 70! of th& total number of six year o
(b) Simulation 2: Les effectifs annuels de la première année (anciennement C.I.) comprennant 70% de la
classe d'âge de six ans plus 5% de la population scolaire totale de l'année précédente. /Enrollment in the
first year of primary school is 70% of the total number of six year old children plus 5% of the total
school population of the preceding year.
(c) Simulation 3: Même hypothèse que pour la simulation 2 avec 7.5% de la population scolaire totale de
l'année précédente./ Same as in simulation 2 but with a rate of 5%.
2/ Le nombre des nouveaux maîtres nécessaires est obtenu par la formule suivante:
Besoins nouveaux e Effectif total élèves - Maîtres existants + Besoins pour remplacementa/
50
The formula for calculating teacher requiremests is:
Needs for new teachers =-          50  - -  present teachers + need for replacement teachers
Source; BENIN: Propositions pour le développement de l'éducation, UNESCO, 1978



- 31 -
ANNEX 5
BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
GENERAL  SECONDARY EDUCATION: PROJECTIONS OF ENROLLMENT AND TEACHER REQUIREMENTS, 1978-87
L'NSEIG1fiN  MOYEN GEW-RAL -FOJECTIONIS DE L'EFF'TIF ET tES ESOINS EN PRCFESSEURS 1978-1987  -/
Perte Annuelle /   lNombre de                Enrollment/                                 Nombre de
Yea  i  Nombe de ~A~nu..1 -~~~-     D -sponib1eS  Ye              Efecir            Ratio         Professeurs Nécessaires f
Année Cycle Professeur. Départ des                          Année Cycle       Effectifs         loves/       s        Né    c
Actuels   Nationaux Départ des    pour.X                                       Professeur   Total   Disponiblee  Besoins
a/         (%b              C!j Su, Vante   ___  _                                    ei                  g.L1
1977 T'otal   1.210         25      âC6actuel )  1.185    1978 Total   59.,007   (1CO)    (42)             (1.412)
ler        3        I; î9 actue].   l1er                             7          71)      53           902         766        136
2ème      428         9       (87 actuel      419           2ème    11.211    (19)        22           510         428         82
1978 Ibtal   1.412          28           _         1.384    1979 Total   67.858   (100)
ler      902        13           _                          1er    54.965    Zi)         53         1.037         884        153
2ème      510        10           -           500           2ème    12.893    (19)        22           586         500         86
1979 Ibtal   1.623          33           15        1.575    1980 Total   78.037   (100)
ler    1.037        21            c        1.011            1er    63-.210        )      51         1.239       1.011        228
2ème      586        12           10          564            2ème    14.827    (19)       23           645         564         81
1980 Total   1.884           8           91        1.755    1981 Total    76.086   (100)
ler    1.239        25           S1        1.200             ler    ;9I        (77)      40         1.465       1.200        265
.'ème     645        13           7 7         555            2èe    17.500    ( 23)       24           729         555        234
1981 Total   2.194          44                     2.150    1982 Total   87.499   (100)
ler    l.5          29                     1.436            ler    20.374    (77)        40         1.684       1.436        248
2ème      729        15           -           714            2ème    20.125    (23)       25           805         714    -   91
1982 Ibtal   2.489          50           -         2.439    1983 Total  100.624   (100)
ler    T84          Si           -         1.650            ler   -7        (7. 7 747)   40         1.937       1.650        287
2ème      805        16           -           789           2 ème    23.144    (23)       25           926         789        137
1983 Total   2.863          ,S           -         2.805    1984 Total  115.718   (100)
ler    1.937        39           _         1. 19 ler    9.1,03                 (-77)     40         2.228       1.898        330
2ème      926        19           _           907           2ème    26.615    (23)        25         1.o65         907        158
1984 Total     2:'          66           -         3        127     196, Total  133.076   (100)
ler    2.228          -                                      4 2.183 1er         )       40         2.562       2.183        379
2eme    1.065        21           -         1.044            2ème    30.607    (23)       25         1.224       1.044         180
1985 Total  -3.             75           _         3.711    1986 Total  153.37   (100)
ler    2.502        51           -         2.511             ler   117.83      -77 )     40         2.946       2.511        4,5
2ème    1,224        24           _         1.2CO            2ème    35.199    (23)       25         1.408       1.200         2C6
1986 Total   4-4            87           -         4.267    1987 Total  175.993   (100)    (35)            (5.007)
ler    2.96         59           -         2.8&7             ler   135.515      T)4i                3.38S       2.887        501
2ème    1.408        28           -         1.380            2ème    40.478    (23)       25         1.619       1.380         239
Source: BENIN:"Propositions pour le développement de l'éducation, UNESCO, 1978"
/ In this hypothesis the average annual growth of enrollment between 1977 and 1987 is 15%/
Dans cette hypothèse, le taux moyen annuel d'augmentation des effectifs globaux est de
15 0% entre 1977 et lQ87.
a/ Ac ual number of teachers;
b/ Local staff loss;
c/ Foreign staff loss;
d/ Number of teachers available for following year;
e/ Pupil/teacher ratio;
f/ Teacher requirements;
g/ available;
h/ required.



BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
COST SUMMARY TABLE/TABLEAU SOMMAIRE DES COUTS
(US$ thousand/milliers de $EU)
(US$ 1 = 270 CFAF)
Professional    Technical                         Operating                     of which    Cost
Services/        Assistance/                      Costs/                        Taxes/       net of taxes/
Civil Works/   Furniture/    Equipment/    Services des    Assistance    Fellowships/    CoOts de                              dont         Coût hors
Project Components/Composantes du projet                    Génie civil    Mobilier         Equipement    spécialistes    technique         Bourses          fonctionnement    Total    taxes            taxes
Primary and Secondary Teacher Training/
Formation des professeurs primaires et secondaires
(a) ENI Natitingou
Base Cost/Coût de base                                 2,789             139              208            226              -                -                 5             3,367        713          2,654
Physical Contingencies/Imprévus quantités                279              14               21             22              -                -                  1              337         71             266
Price Contingencies/Imprévus prix                        846              47               70             46              -                -                 2             1,011        213             798
Total with Tax/Total taxes comprises                   3,914             200              299            294              -                -                               4,715                     3,718
Tax/Taxes                                                900              38               -              59                                                 -               997        997
Total, Net of Tax/Total hors taxes                     3,014                              299S                                                                             3,71
(b) ENI Parakou
Base Cost/Colt de base                                 3,644              187             230            295              -                -                  6            4,362        933          3,429
Physical Contingencies/Imprévus quantités                364              19               23             29              -                -                  1              436         93             343
Price Contingencies/Imprévus prix                      1,106              63               77             60              -                -                 3             1,309        278          1,031
Total with Tax/Total taxes comprises                   5,114             269              330            384              -                -                 10            6,107                     4,803
Tax/Taxes                                              1,176              51               -              77              -                -                 -             1,304      1,304
Total Net of Tax/Total hors taxes                      3,938             218              330            307                                                 10            4,803
(c) ENI Lokossa
Base Cost/Coet de base                                 6,179             310              862            593             608              256                9             8,817      1,599          7,218
Physical Contingencies/Imprévos quantités                618              31               86             59              61               26                1               882        160             722
Price Contingencies/Imprévus prix                      1,875             104              289            120             164               83                5             2.640        475          2,l65
Total with Tax/Total taxes comprises                   8,672             445            1,237            772             833              365               15            12,339                    10,105  I
Tax/Taxes                                              1,994              86               -             154              -                -                               2234       2,234
Total Net oe Tax/Total hors taxes                      6,678             359           1,237             618             833              365               15            10,105
Textbook Production and Distribution/Production
et distribution des manuels scolaires
Base Cost/Cotût de base                                  609              44           1,145              52           1,262               60              370             3,542        159          3,383
Physical Contingencies/Imprévus quantités                 61               4              115              5             126                6               37               354         16             338
Price Contingencies/Imprévlus prix                        94               7              181              6             576                7              147             1,018         24            994
Total wlth Tan/Total taxes comprises                     764              55           1,441              63           1,964               73              554             4,914                     4,715
Tax/Taxes                                                176              10               -              13                               -                 -               199        199
Total Net of Tan/Total hors taxes                        588              45            1,44t             50           1,964               73              554             4,715
Project Planning, Evaluatlon and Management!
Planification, évaluation et direction du projet
Base Cost/Coût de base                                                     l             59             -            1,408              120              112             1,710          7          1,703
Physical Contingencies/Imprevus quantites                 _                1                6             -              141               12               il               171          1             170
Price Contingencies/Imprévus prix                         -                2               io             -              349               35               36               432          2            430
Total with Tax/Total taxes comprises                      -               14               75             -            1,898              167              159             2,313                     2,303
Tax/Taxes                                                 _                3               -                    -         -                -                  7               10         10
Total Net of Tax/Total hors taxes                         -               11               75             -            1,898              167              152             2,303
Total Base Cost/Cott de base total                          13,221              691           2,504          1,166           3,278              436               502           21,798     3,411          18,387
Physical Contingencies/Imprévus quantités              1,322              69             251             115             328              44                51             2,180       341           1,839
Price Contingencies/Imprévus prix                     3,921              223             627             232           1,089             125               193             6,410       992           5,418
Total Proje,t Cost/Cott total du projet                     18,464              983           3,382          1,513           4,695              605               746           30,388    4,744           25  b 
Taxes                                                  4,246             188              -              303              -                -                               4,744
Total Project Cost (net of taxes)/Cost total du projet  14,218                  795           3,382          1,210           4,695              605               739           25,644
(hors taxes)



- 33 -
ANNEX 7
BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
FINANCING PLAN/PLAN DE FINANCEMENT
(US$ thousand/milliers de $EU)
Total Cost/                  Swiss/    German/        Government/          Taxes/
Project Components/Composantes du projet                   Co3t total         IDA       Suisse    Allemand       Gouvernement         Taxes
Primary and Secondary Teacher Training/
Formation des professeors primaires et secondaires
Civil Works/Génie civil                                            12,612         6,215      1,554          -             1,942              2,901
lurniture/Mobilier                                                   636            407        102         -                  6                121
Equipment/Equipement                                               1,300            832         208         -                260
Professional Services/Services des spécialistes                    1,114            712         178         -                  -               223
Technical Assistance/Assistance tQchnique                             608           486         122         -
]Pellowships/Bourses                                                  256            205         51         -
Operating Costs/Coûts de fonctionnement                                20             13          3         -                  4
'rotal Base Cost/Cout de base total                               16,546          8,871      2,218          -              2,212             3,245
Physical Contingencies/Imprévus quantités                          1,655            886        222          -               223                324
Price Contingencies/Imprévus prix                                  4,960         2,556         639          -               799                966
rotal Contingencies/Total imprévus                                 6,615          3,442        861          -             1,022             1,290
rotal with Taxes/Total taxes comprises                           23,161
raxes                                                              4,535                                                                    4535
total Net-of-Tax/Total hors taxes                                 18,626        12,313        3,079         -             3,234                 -
Textbook Production and Distribution/Production et
distribution des manuels scolaires
Civil Works/Genie civil                                              609            -            -         469               -                 140
Furniture/Mobilier                                                    44            -            -          36               -                   8
Equipment/Equipement                                               1.145            -            -      1.145                -                    -
Professional Services/Services des specialistes                        52           -            -          41               -                  i1
Technical Assistance/Assistance technique                          1,262             -           -      1,262
Fellowships/Bourses                                                    60            -           -          60               -
Operating Costs/Couts de fonctionnement                              370            -            -         370               -
Total Base Cost/Coût de base total                                 3,542             -           -      3,383                -                 159
Physical Contingencies/Imprévus quantites                            354             -           -         338               -                  16
Price Contingencies/Imprévus orix                                  1,018             -           -         994               -                  24
Total Contingencies/Total imprévus                                 1.372             -           -      1,332                -                  40
Total s,ith Taxes/Total taxes comprises                           4  914             -           -      4,715                                  199
Taxes                                                                199             -           -
Total Net-of-TaxiTotal hors taxes                                 4  715             -           -      4,715
Project Management, Evaluation and Planning/
Planification, evaluation et direction du projet
Furniture/Mobilier                                                     il              7           2        -                -                    2
Equipmtent/Equipement                                                  59            38          10         -                 i1
Professional Services/Services des spécialistes                       -              -
Technical Assistance/Assistance technique                          1,408         1,126          282         -
Fellowships/Bourses                                                  120             96          24         -
Operating Costs/Couts de fonctionnement                              112             68          17                          22                  5
Total Base Cost/Coût de base total                                 1,710         1,335          335         -                 33                 7
Physical Contingencies/Imprévus quantités                            171            133          34         -                  3                  1
Price Contingencies/Imprévus prix                                    432            275          69         -                86                  2
Total Contingencies/Totai  imprévus                                  603            408         103        -_                89                 -3
Total with Taxes/Total taxes comprises                            2,313           1,743         438         -               122                 10
Taxes                                                                  10
Total Net-of-Tax/Total hors taxes                                 2,303           1,743         438                         122
Grand Total Base Cost Tncluding Taxes/                              21,798         10,206       2,553        3,338           2,245             3,411
CoOi de base total  eneral taxes coTnprises
Graind Total/    Physical Contingencies/Imprevus quantités            2,180          1,020         255        338              225                342
To-tal ge-neral:  Frite Contingencies/Imprévuspi
Totallgéneral:Price Contigees/TImpré us prix        6,410          2,831          708       994               885               992
Total Contingenc7e~s/Total  imprevus                8,590          3,850         964    1,332              1,111              1,334
Crand Total with Contingencies and Taxes/                            30,388        14 ,053       3 ,517    4, 715            3,361             4,745
Total general y compris imprévus et taxes
Gr.nd Total Taxes, Total géneral taxes                                4745             -             -         -                -              4,745
Grand Total Net-of-Tax/Total général hors taxes                      25,643        14,056        3,517    4,715              3,356 6
1/ Figures may be off due to rounding/L'inexactitude de certains chiffres peut être d3eau fait qu'ils ont été arrondis.



- 34 -
DENTN - SECOND EDUCATIOb PROJECT/DEUXIEMf  PROJET EDUCATION                                                                Pade I of 2
SUIAIMRY OF SPECEAL1S  SBTRVICE5/IABLEAU RECAITULAJIIF DES 3PECIALISTEES DE EASSISTANCE TECENIOIE
N-be- ef        Total           StartiEg     Base Cent (US$/
Spettalista    f in-lieths/    Este!         Case de bate
rojot Component/t         Positton Code/                                                 Nombre de        Total           Dtet de      ft tié (SEU)                   Su(ry  Job Demcrîipeioo/
Etemeot do projet         No., d  poste           T_i1r1eTire -petialistes   astm-Dmaae                                   demartage   (Dec. 19811                    Déstripti-s somqsire dem  taches
lES Pritury and lomer         133-5-lO/1102        Eqoipmentmspttia-i.tn/Spé-                      2                4           8/81          40,000            Preperamios of the equipment tsts for the three
secosdary edosattoot                           oliititem en équipemeto                                                                                      DateemratrioisgolLeges/Préparstioo mn de  istes
Formation des                                                                                                                                               d 'équipements poor les trois 'étoles normales
Omotes de btoe et
dem Otoîts                133-5-103            Fuoniture specialist /spf-                                       2           6/82           16,000           Design typi-   turitore/comception soùiLer
secondaires                        c~~~~~ttialsttmermobilier                                                                                    tope
133-5-104            ia$ntenmnpetEalimt/                             i               6            i/N           NO,00             Preparamion of noîemtename pl-n for tne promet
SpetiaDieeeoenretien                                                                                         immtotoriotm/P4paraeimn do prog-e-me d'entretien
pom Dem i-nsti-tlis. do pr-3mt
133-5-105            echnital edoDamio  apesistise!                  1              30           6/85          225,000           Assistasc"  to tI e Cooermaemt la deoelooîtg teDh-
EpOotaliste  en t:est ignemem                                                                                sisal edmoaeîmm  curricula mnd in the semrt-sp rf
techsniqe                                                                                                   neather tr-ining me Ltqkpseatests toose os gouvetm-e
mmml poor le démeisppesmen dem progoamemes de
l'éduc-tion technsiqum etma tusmErrogt de la totos-
tin des emeeiaslFtm a oktomna
133-5-107            PrdmggtsIii  mdme ...                                          10           6/82           80,00U           AssistDase Do project direotor in ped5ggosl
Cesmbîue pîoogqtmtters /Oalmitaste direoteor do pro et e
affaires pédagsgtqoe-
200 e-t-ok prodoctisn         202-5-201             Chfef Tethnial  Admiset/                       1               42           6/82          315,00D            Coord-satss  nd pr-fesslssml odoime tcrhe
mmdoductrippttmot                              Co-ill Tetti oe -h        iosip s                                                                           tesTiioal ampistas- -    tea-/Co.rd.amstim  et sommetl
Pdistrbtion det                                                                                                                                             professionnelE pose lo<qoipe d' ommintomor techniqut
di tertbstîso dem ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Pfi . ~ .-u",p
msnuelsscolatirs          E02-5-202            tosDo ffpet    p-os -tp-d-                      1               24          lû/83         160,000            Flmtoomaletmmolatsd  ns tht prodootton of
Plorcd offse pio         e -tidg/                                                                           pri-ted tem-himg msnerîalttftsto-omposotîo
et  mtage-fmet P                ud                                                                                    'enseigsmemmest mptrd
202-5-203            Ofim-t Pt! imtometatt/p-i36                                                10/83          240,000            POîntEsa  -md prmdmolsim  teothmîmal adot-eC-smil
2û2-5-203      oielimtmermtpretiain offset                                                                                   ne6IO8o4000tolqhnqu  peur i'taprmmsmo et  la prmooutton
732-5-204            B-ok stitfthimg mmd indosttiFl                  I              IB          IO/B3           12 0              Dindtmg oN nextboots, et. reistet Dm  tse produc-
bindtDd! Ep.tlistemtrohae-iD   f pttm-d  -eahimg espettloed
et ent reliure Dodostrielle                                                                                 mnaoelmF somiaires  est  me quipementaR laued
pmodmseism de mtaterie i d'emmetgonemrnt mprtoe
232-5-205            tNtpseoD  md Draimisn  speciaist/              1               4           10/81          32,000            7raiming af  oca1 pri-ntshp persoel/torsatlsm
OpeoraltoDe eu peqstpnesmt                                                                                  du parsmmmehiloalde l'tsprimerte
fraimdo permomme1
202-5-206            Sp     ai.imt.o i ts rtmio1  demelepmet         I2 42                        1/82         315,000            Teotboot demelopme  amd edttna/tse as poInt
tdévespbp k editigdsgp oiammsnee                                                                             et rgdmomiss dem masseis mscmires
de-elsppeaest demp-     tame
red-otion
30    eoctt   d  Projemori t 302-5-301                    ie    tr do prjei t    l                                  6            1/82           30,000                  pr -o-ramig,     dgetinE Mtd       sth ntm      t-
g-i-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~am  sDireoe- do proie lae  'mnnanalt
pmmgramaatiOa , %Dmblisemes,nm du budget et cmsre0a-
bilité
302-5-302            foordtsator s iti1 ak dre                       1              54            1/82        405,000             Cfordimattos oS construotion  omek, for-it-re
d1 nd         mtrsip-   dti et de Uaqmtmltlmm do
Ioilier et                   d 'ttipeaeon
302-5-303            Assistase Coordinator qt Ci,il                  1              36            6/82         144,000            Ansimnasce ns Coordinseor la aspereios  sf
omdst an        s tr /avau        t                                                                         oster itionmrint=c  aot rdtmatear pour
mmmrdimateom dem trms,                                                                                       ure lat  d-i oh-rier
302-5-304            AudDting iU sI   eroicen de                     1              12           12/81         120,000             -eat-tios s! trai    aeng   ayp tet  sd fop Dom-sp
omapatli teet  eri Omaisad-m                                                                        amdieisge-deraintsg sst&tmPSaatsd'os
ttDm dem tomptee assocet et dem attiminés de
302-5-305            t9aioattoanpstaiimtopotoaltmte                  I                N           1/85          67,500              aisteto nNYOGiP satt eeatsmtlsn Df mli
eD   a uotlon                                                                                            pro jeon  msepoaesnmS, empeia 'Dpy temnbssk
tsmpsoeeD/damDmeatFe a NoenttPeoeoc .'ématsmtimo
de tDUS lem Olémments do prsjet, mpStlieaestt
les sasse lm msioaErem
302-5-306            Prmje-t plmenieg  1Pe2ialier                    t               lE           1/86          90,000            Preaat    oNré  patioD     fstmen edssatts
EpOtaiane   pasttatsndemp-emttorts   'ÇemeD   rlm
projete                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ddsatm



BENIN - SECOND EDUICATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
SUMNAR! OF LOCAL SPECIALIST SERVICES AND PROJECT UNIT STAFF/
TABLEAU RECAPITULATIF DES EXPERTS NATIONAUX ET DU PERSONNEL DU BUREAU DE PROJET
Estimated
Number of       Total           Starting     Base Cost (US$)/
Specialists/   Man-Months/   Date/           Cout de Base
Ptoject Comporleol        Position Code!                                                 Nombre de        Total           Date de      Estimé~ ($EU)                 luoomary Job Description/
Plrîojt ment duProjet     No. du Poste                  Title/Titre                      spécialistes   Mois-Hommes   DémDarrage   (USe. 1981,)                      Description Sommaire des T§ches
1 r a l1 -t a i ei t1  60  10/81           14,400            Part-time assistance to the technical educator
100  Primary and lower          133-5-106            National adviser in equipment and               1s, ti.n/lsi.t ani                                                          d fo1i1  ups   equipment implementa-
secondary' education/                           techofcal education/Conseiller                                                                               tion/Assistance mi- tempo au sp6cialiste en
Porndation des                                  national en equipement et enseigne-                                                                          enseinement technique et suivi de 1'instaIIation
enseignants des                                 ment technique                                                                                               de l'eqiipiment
écoles de base et
des écoles                 133-5-108            National advisory com3ittees/                   -                -             -           3S,600            Assistance  to project director on project-related
des coldies13510Nainlaiorcomtes
Commissior,snationIales                                                                                      matters/Assistance du directeur projet sur
sujets variés associés au projet
200  Tertbook production        202-5-207             National adviser for the implementa-            1              15           11/81           3,600            Advise the Project Director in lie implementation  >
and distribution/                               of the printing office/Conseiller                                                                             of the printing office/Conseiller le directeur du
Production et                                   national pour le démarrage de l'office                                                                        projet pour le démarrage de l'office d'impression
distribution des                                d'impression
manuels scolaires!
202-5-208            National advisers in curriculum develop-   -                  110            9/81          26,400            Assist the National Adviser in the preparation
ment/Conseillers nationaux pour le                                                                           of manuscripts/Appui au conseiller national pour
développement des programmses                                                                                la preparation des manuscrits
300  Project Management/         302-5-307            Director/Directeor                              1               72           6/81           23,040           Management of Project/Direction du projet
Gestion du Projet
302-5-308/309        Deputy Directors/Directeurs adjoints            2             144            6/81          34,560            Advising aue Director on project-related matters/
Conseil au directeur sur activités du projet
302-5-310            Accountant/Comptable                            1              72            6/81           5,760            Advising the Director on project-related matters/
Conseil au directeur sur activités du projet
302-5-311            Building Technician/Projetteur                  1              48            1/82           2.880            Advising the Director on project-related matters/
Conseil au directeur sur activités du projet
302-5-312/313/       Construction Supervisors/                       4             120            6/82           7,200            Advising the Director on project-related matters/ ,t »
314/315            Surveillants de chantiers                                                                                    Conseil au directeur sur activités du projet              r
302-5-316            Misc. Support Staff/Personnel d'appui           -              -              _            13,960            Advising the Director on project-related matters/ 1
Conseil au directeur sur activites du projet
DATE: November 1981



BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXI_EM PROJET EDUCATION
SUMMARY OF FELLOWSHIPS/TABLEAU SOMMIARE DES BOURSES
Estimated
Number af    Total            Starting      Base Cot (DB$))
Pelions!        m-mosths/    Data /         Cour de Base
Project Componeot/    Position Code/                 FiPld af Study/                  Nombre de    Tatal            Date de        Estime ($EU)
Element da Projet      No. du Poste                  Sujet d'Etudes                   Boursiers    cois-hses         e rrge    (Der. 1981)               __                       Cmments/Commentaires
Primary aod lower        133-6-101          Training af general education                 4             40             1/85             80,000          Training abroad/Foroation a l'etrager
sec..d-ry education/                        teachers/FPormation des foroateurs
P.rmation des                               en eduration general
enseignants des
ercles de base et
des eorles
secondaires
133-6-102          Techoical teacher educatfoe/                 5              50            1/85            100,000           Training  hbroad af trehniral teachers for the Teacher Training
Formation des formateurs techniques                                                                         College in Lokossa/Formation a l'etranger d'ensetignats techeiques
pour l'Ecole Normale Iitegree do Lokossa
133-6-103         Agricultural teacher education/               4              40            1/85             80,000           Training abroad af agricuîtural teachers for the Teacher Training
Formation des formateurs agricoles                                                                          College in Lokossa/Formatirn a l'etramger des . saeiga. ta d'eromomie
familiale pour l'Ecole Normale Integre- de Lokossa
133-6-104          Home Economirs teacher cducation/             2             20            1/85             40,000           Training abroad af hame ecdnomics teachers for thI  Teacher Training
formation des formateurs d'economoi                                                                         Collegen .uLokssa/Formation a l'rtranger des enseignants decomomie
familiale                                                                                                  fa-,ilial pour - I'Ecolr Normale Ir.tegree de Lokossa
133-6-105         Maintenance/Entretien des batiments           3              18            6/84             36,000           Training or technirians as maintenance specialists/Pormation de
et equipement                                                                                               terbhncien= sperialistes en entretien
Textbook production      202-6-201          Printing/Impression                           3             30             8/82             60,000           Training in printing/Formation a l'etrrger se operatios des imprimeries
and distributian/
Production et            202-6-202          Training af the Director and the              2             15                              30,000 -         1/ Training if  large book printing institution sach as exist in
distributioa de                             General Directors/Pormation des                                                                             Abidjan, Dakar and Yamunde/Les bourses serton  utiliseea au sein
manuels scolaires                           Directeurs gemerals et techniques                                                                            d'uno grande imprimerie amae il an emista a Abidjan, Dakar et Yaouade
202-6-203          Training af manager af photo-                 I              9                              18,000
composition/Formatian de chef de
photoromposition
202-6-204          Training af printshop msnager/formation   1                  6                              12,000
de chef d'imprimerie
202-6-205          Training of skilled worhers in the           -              25                              50,000 -/
printshop/Formation des uotriers
specialises en imprimerie
Praject Mamagement/    302-6-301            ProjecL management amd accouotisg/            5             60             1/83            120,000           userseas training/Farmatinn s letranger
Ge-tion du Projet                           Coalisa du prajot et  -emptabilite
Navember 1981
Date:  Nosember 1981



BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
IMPLEMETA_NON  CIDUE/CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION
CAI.l`NDAR YCAR/ \nnic Civile                                       1981          1982         1983          1984          1985           1986        1987          1988
CEMPONE1  SQUARTER t                                                 2 _       1  2 1   4  1  2        4  1  2  3  4 _           3         4  1  2  3  4  I 2     1  2  3  4
Estirated Effective Date/Date estiméie nour miTe en vigueur _             , -                                                        -                z---             -
Closing Date/Date de loture                                      _                 -
100 Primary and Lower Teacher Education                        -             --              =                                                      _
Formation des instituteurs et professeuLrs-niveaui Lt-                                          -
Civil Works/Cénie Civil          -                                                                                     --
Furniture/Mobilier                                      =       t
Equipuent/Equipement                                     Ez  
Professional Services/Services des Spécialistes                  9                                                        E
Technical Assistance/Assistance Technique           =         UII[                     - _
Fellowships/Bourses                                      -  -            -                 -                                 L                              =
Operating Costs/Coûts de Fonctionnement                       I        +             I     ZZ    î!tH                                                       =
00  Textbook Production and Distribution                             -      -  -  -  -    I
Fourniture et distribution de manuels                     ._
Civil Works/Génie Civil                                 | =
Furniture/Mobilier                                                            -                      t      i4!                                              =
Equipment/Equipement                                                  _--
Professional Services/Services des Spécialistes                                                -                    F      -,       i             t=
Technical Assistance/Assistance Technique
Fellowships/Bourses                                    _                                                                                      I       I    - r=
Operating Costs/Couts de Fonctionnement                                              -  -|            1             -- r  I   I iI
300  Management Preparation and Evaluation                          -  -  -  -
Gestion, préparation et évaluation
Furniture/Mobilier                                                                                    "                               t                .__ 
Equipment/Equipement                                                                                                                                  1  [1 =f i X    
Technical Assistance/Assistance Technique 1* ;       
|    Fellowships/Bourses                                                >$^               w        ;     i     i       +       i      »       ^_ <                         É
Operating Costs/Couts de Fonctionnement                     [4 -         -      --                                            4~             -        1                        >
J--""}    PREPARXATION                            _CONSULTATION                                *      L+.EXECUTION



- 38 -
ANNEX 11
BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
IDA CREDIT ACCOUNT/COMTTE DU CREDIT IDA
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS/CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
(US$ '000/en milliers de dollars EU)
IBRD/IDA                                           Accumulated       Undisbursed  Cumulated%
Fiscal Year 1/                                      Disbursements/  Balance/       Disbursed/%
Année budgétaire 1/   Quarter   Disbursements/  Décaissements   Solde non    Décaissements
BIRD/IDA               Semestre  Décaissements   accumulés           décaissé      accumulés
1982                4               0                0          14,000            0
1983                1             400              400          13,600            3
2             250             650          13,350             5
3             250             900          13,100             6
4             300           1,200          12,800             9
1984                1             300           1,500           12,500           il
2             400           1,900          12,100           14
3             550           2,450          11,550           18
4             750           3,200         '10,800           23
1985                1             900           4,100            9,900           29
2          1,100            5,200           8,800           37
3          1,200            6,400           7,600           46
4             800           7,200           6,800           51
1986                1             600            7,800           6,200           56
2             6500          8,400           5,600           60
3             1500          8,900           5,100           64
4             ';00          9,400           4,600            67
1987                1             _500          9,900            4,100           71
2             600          10,500           3,500            75
3             800          11,300           2,700           81
4             900          12,200           1,800           87
1988                l             900          13,100              900           94
2             600          13,700             300           98
3             200          13,900             100           99
4             100          14,000               0          100



- 39 -
ANNEiX 12
BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS AGAINST CERTIFIED STATEMENTS OF EXPENDITURES
1.         IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditure in
the case of' (a) salary allowances for project management staff, and (b) operating
expenses related to project management. The working papers for the project
outline the specific expenses which can be financed against certified statements
of expenditure. In addition, the Government will be asked at negotiations to
sign a side letter specifying these eligible expenses. The total amount of
disbursements against certified statements of expenditure is estimated at
US$0.15 million, equal to about 1% of the IDA credit amount.
2.         The Government would manage and account for the disbursements against
certified statements of expenditure in the following ways:
(a) The Project Director would submit quarterly to IDA for review a budget
for the expenditures against certified statements which are projected
for t.e next six months.  The Director would attach to that budget
a statement showing the expenditures incurred during the preceeding
three month period.
(b)  The Government has established a working fund to finance these
expenses.  The fund has been started with an advance of CFAF 5.0
million, equal to about six months of thèse expenses.
(c) The Caisse autonome d'amortissement will replenish the fund in a
quarterly basis from the regular recurrent budget of the MEMGTP.
These replenishments will be made by the Caisse autonome in respect
of certified statements of expenditure prepared by the Project
Director, and verified by the Caisse.
(d)  IDA will reimburse the Caisse according to Schedule 1 of the Credit
Agreement, in respect of withdrawal applications indicating the amount
of expenditures against certif ied statements.
(e)  The Caisse autonome and the Project Director will keep a separate
account for expenses against certified statements and will retain
the certified statements for review by IDA supervision missions.
(f) An independent auditor will audit the accounts once each year, issuing
a separate opinion on expenditures against certified statements.
3.         As noted in paragraph 2.19 of the Staff Appraisal Report, the project
will finance the strengthening of the accounting work of the Project Unit,
through technical assistance by the auditors and fellowships for accounting
staff. Given these efforts and the considerable experience of the Caisse
autonome in dealing with IDA projects, we expect the Government to be ab:Le to
account adequately for expenditures against certif ied statements.



-- 4C0 -                               ANNEX 13
BENIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
LIST OF RELATED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Bénin: propositions pour le développement de l'éducation, UNESCO, 1978
2. Bénin. Education Sector Memorandum, March 27, 1980, World Bank Report
No. 2836-BEN
3. Project Brief, Revised Version, April 1981
4. Request for a Second Education Project, Government of Bénin,
May 19, 1980
5. Consultants Report on Agricultural Training at the ENI Lokossa, June 1981
6.  Consultants Report on Textbook Production and Distribution, May 1981
and Annexes of August 1981
7.  Programme de formation des écoles normales d'instituteurs, Government
of Benin, 1981
8. Formation des instituteurs ,et desprofesseurs de l'enseignement moyen
général niveau I, ENI Lokossa, Parakou, et Natitingou, Government
of Benin, 1981
9. ENI Lokossa: Enseignement industriel, économie et commerce, et
économie familiale



.AL  w' N 554~~~~~~~~~N  L 
j  0174  J                    OU
304<-  I                                                                                  'j~~~~~~~~~~~~Db-1
TANVOU
4T.44GOU~    2..
AOANT'C  05045  -~~~~~~~~~~Bb,èk
04440                                 j-                    54'54"
/1                                                BsgoY~~~~~~-I1                          I
<i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-b 



