Document of                FIL   C   PY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3278-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
April 22, 1982
This document bas a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the peforance of O
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank outhorlgation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =       CFAF
US$1.00                    CFAF 270 1/
CFAF 1,000                 US$3.7
CFAF 1,000,000    =        UJS$3,704
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 km  kilometer          =  0.62 miles
1 km2 square kilometer  =  0.39 square miles
1 m meter                =  3.28 feet
1 m2 square meter        = 10.26 square feet
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        African Development Bank
BEPC       Brevet d'Etudes Premier Cycle
CEAP       Certificat d'Aptitude Pedagogique
CPPE       Centre de Perfectionnement du Personnel des Entreprises
DEP        Direction des Etudes et de la Planification
EEC        European Economic Community
ENI        Ecole Normale Integree
ENS        Ecole Normale Superieure
GRVC       Groupement Revolutionnaire a Vocation Cooperative
GTZ        German Agency for Technical Cooperation
INFRE      Institut National de la Formation et de la Recherche en Education
JIR        Jeunes Instituteurs Revolutionnaires
MACP       Ministry of Literacy Training and Culture
MDRAC      Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action
MEBM       Ministry of Pre-Primary and Primary Education
MEMGTP     Ministry of General Secondary, Technical  and Vocational Education
MESRS      Ministry of Higher Education and Research
MTAS       Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
UNESCO     United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The People's Republic of Benin
Amount:        SDR 12.2 million; (US$14 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA terms
Co-financing: Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation - US$3.5 million
equivalent
German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) - US$4.7 million
equivalent
Project
Description:  The main objective of the proposed project is to assist
the government in improving the quality of primary and lower
secondary education. The proposed project would comprise:
(a) construction, equipment, and staff training for three
integrated teacher colleges for primary and lower secondary
teacher education with a total enrollment of about 1,190
students, (b) construction, equipment, and staff training for
a textbook production and distribution program with an average
annual output over the project implementation period of 470,000
books, and (c) staff training, equipment and operating costs for
project management and evaluation, and specialist services for
identification and preparation of future education projects.
Benefits
and Risks:   The project would focus on improving the quality and efficiency
of primary and lower secondary education. It would accomplish
these by upgrading the standard of teacher training, increasing
the annual output of teachers for the primary and lower secon-
dary level from 800 to 935, and by establishing a national
textbook program. The project would also allow government to
orient secondary education more toward priority manpower require-
ments by establishing new training programs for teachers of
vocational, technical and agricultural subjects. Over the
longer term, the project would help to improve the efficiency
of the educational system by reducing drop-out and repetition
and thus lowering the cost per graduate. The main risks
to the project stem from the lack of adequately prepared local
staff to operate the teacher training colleges and manage the
construction component. Provision of technical assistance and
IDA review requirements have, however, significantly reduced
these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:  (net of taxes)            Local      Foreign       Total
…---   (US$ million)-------
Primary and Lower Secondary
Teacher Education                        7.55        5.80        13.35
Textbook Production and Distribution    0.65            2.69          3.34
Management, Evaluation and Planning         0.36        1.34          1.70
Base Cost                              8.56        9.83        18.39
Physical Contingencies                0.86         0.98         1.84
Price Contingencies                    2.52        2.89         5.41
TOTAL                                11.94        13.70        25.64
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                            6.05         7.95        14.00
Government                             3.43          --         3.43
Swiss Aid                              1.51        1.99         3.50
German Aid                            0.95         3.76         4.71
TOTAL                                11.94        13.70        25.64
Estimated Disbursements:       FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
----------------(US$ Million)---------------
Annual               1.2      2.0      4.0     2.2      2.8    1.8
Cumulative           1.2      3.2      7.2     9.4    12.2   14.0
Project Completion Date: December 31, 1987
Staff Appraisal Report: 3674-BEN
Map: IBRD No. 15373



INTERNAEIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of Benin for an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 12.2 million (US$14.0 million)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Education Project. Additional
financing for the project would be provided on a joint basis by the Swiss
Agency for Development Cooperation for an amount of SF 7 million (US$3.5
million), and on a parallel basis by thb Agency for Technical Cooperation
of the Federal Republic of Germany for an amount of about US$4.7 million
equivalent on terms to be established in separate agreements between the
Borrower and these two agencies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 2079-BEN), was
issued in May 1979. The paragraphs below are based on this report, but
include updated information, some of which was provided by an IMF mission
that visited Benin in June 1981. Annex I provides basic country data.
Introduction
3.        After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized
by frequent changes in Government prevailed until the revolution in 1972,
which brought to power the military Government of President Kerekou. The new
regime removed foreign dominance from the modern sector and strengthened the
Government's involvement in the agricultural sector, but these measures
initially disrupted the economy since there was an inadequate number of
trained Beninese to replace the departing expatriates. Yet, the Government
also pursued conservative financial policies, which resulted in budgetary
surpluses on current account and the maintenance of the debt service ratio at
generally less than 5 percent.
4.         Benin has now enjoyed a comparatively long period of political
stability under a one-party system. Following the adoption of a new consti-
tution, Lieutenant Colonel Kerekou was confirmed by the National Assembly in
early 1980 as President of the Republic for a three-year term. President
Kerekou has in turn appointed a Government composed mainly of civilians.
1/   The text of this section is essentially the same as that included in the
President's Report for the Technical Assistance Project in the Petroleum
Sector to Benin which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
January 21, 1982.



- 2 -
5.        The nation is entering a period of moderate growth propelled by
major investments in the industrial sector.  But Benin's near-term prospects
should be assessed with caution, because they are dependent on a few key
factors:  the Nigeria and Niger markets, success of key industrial projects,
and the pursuit of a prudent fiscal policy.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        Although Benin enjoyed an average annual real GDP growth rate of
4.5 percent and a sound financial position over the 1976-80 period, it remains
a poor country with a GNP per capita of $320 per annum (1980). Between 1976
and 1980 exports of goods and non-factor services increased from $173 million
to $319 million, but because of an even higher rise in imports and deteriorat-
ing terms of trade, the resource gap remained at about 20 percent of GDP dur-
ing this period. An important part of the resource gap was financed by a
sustained inflow of workers' remittances and capital grants, but there was
also a modest but rising reliance on medium- and long-term borrowing, largely
on concessionary terms.
7.        Agriculture, which generates about 45 percent of GDP, has stagnated
since 1970. With respect to export crops, cotton peaked in 1972 at 50,000
tons, but has since fallen to around 20,000 tons. Palm oil production con-
tinued to increase until the mid-1970s but output has been reduced since a
severe drought in 1977. Institutional disruptions, unremunerative producer
prices, lack of financial resources, and the absence of technical assistance
are the main reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of export crops.
Foodcrop production has fared somewhat better because of rising demand from
Nigeria. Performance in agriculture is, however, slowly improving under
renewed Government support through producer price increases, mainly for
cotton, and more reliance on market forces in general. Also with better
climatic conditions, output of foodcrops (in particular maize and cassava)
was estimated to have increased in 1981. Regarding export crops, cotton
production could rise provided inputs such as fertilizers are provided on
time. Output of palm oil and kernels is expected to continue to recover
gradually from the 1977 drought.
8.        The secondary sector is still undeveloped due to lack of skilled
manpower, a small local market, and institutional constraints. It contributes
about 10 percent to GDP, and consists mostly of processing of agricultural
products and import-substitution activities. The sector achieved an 11
percent annual growth rate during 1972-76, but slowed down to 5 percent during
1977-81 due to a fall-off in Nigerian demand, and because many state-owned
industrial enterprises are experiencing operational and financial problems.
Currently Benin is beginning to strengthen its industrial base through several
major projects: the Onigbolo cement factory, the Save sugar plant, and the
Seme offshore oil development project (paras. 15-16).



- 3 -
9.        The tertiary sector (mainly commerce, transport, and public ser-
vices) accounts for about 45 percent of GDP. The bulk of this sector consists
of commercial activities which mostly remain in private hands. Their sus-
tained growth for the past several years testifies to the dynamism of the
private sector, and reflects the important role of Benin as a trading center.
Concerning transport, the port of Cotonou has traditionally provided access
to the sea for landlocked Niger and the western part of Nigeria. IDA led
a group of co-financiers in a major expansion of the port facilities. After
increasing rapidly in recent years, the traffic volume through Cotonou port
has shown signs of leveling off.
10.       As a result of a prudent budgetary policy, the government has been
running current surpluses averaging about CFAF 5 billion during the 1976-80
period. It followed a policy of preventing a real increase in current expen-
ditures between 1972 and 1979 through limits on salaries of civil servants,
and by holding down maintenance expenditures. The overall budgetary deficit,
mainly because of substantial and rising investment expenditures, and stepped
up government lending to state enterprises, has increased in 1980 to CFAF 15
billion, nearly four times the average level of the previous four years,
financed almost entirely from concessionary foreign sources.  The large defi-
cit was due also to lagging revenue collections and a general salary increase
in 1980. In 1981 the overall deficit was estimated to have increased to CFAF
36 billion, because of an increase in lending to largely unprofitable state
enterprises from CFAF 10 billion in 1980 to CFAF 25 billion, and a sharp
increase in current expenditure. Foreign borrowing would have to more than
double to cover the deficit. This trend cannot continue if Benin is to avoid
debt servicing problems over the medium term.
11.       The deteriorating financial conditions of major state enteprises
has become a source of great concern for the government. It has responded by
setting up a new Ministry for the Inspection of Public and Semi-public Enter-
prises to supervise the operations of state enterprises. The Minister also
chairs the newly-formed Commission Nationale du Bilan which reviews the
financial situation of each state enterprise. In a series of reforms, the
government has already replaced the management of several important state
enterprises, tightened their access to credit, and imposed new salary guide-
lines.
12.       In Benin prices are generally market-determined, and the authorities
have limited their price controls to essential commodities in urban areas. In
an open economy like Benin with an active cross-border trade and a thriving
private sector, comprehensive price controls are bound to be unsuccessful.
Thus, emphasis is being placed on maintaining orderly conditions in the
commercial sector and on regulating profit margins. The increased economic
activity induced by the start up of major industrial projects is likely to
exert some pressures on prices in the next few years, with an annual inflation
rate of about 11 percent projected for 1981-82.



13.       The government is committed to promoting social welfare, but a key
concern hitherto has been to keep wages and salaries low because of limited
public revenues and in order to stem rural-urban migration. In real terms,
both public and private sector salaries have declined. However, in early
1980, the government adopted a number of measures aimed at raising real
incomes of wage earners. These included raising the minimum wage rates in
the private sector by 15 percent and in the public sector by 11 percent.
Despite these measures, which were taken after several years of frozen
salaries, Benin is one of the few countries in Africa where the urban-rural
income gap has not widened in recent years.
14.       Benin-s balance of payments position is characterized by a large and
growing deficit on goods and services, financed by foreign grants and external
borrowing, with the latter increasing in recent years. In 1980, the trade
balance worsened considerably because of sharply higher imports of capital
equipment relating to the major industrial projects. However, the shortfall
was offset by a larger volume of official grants and external borrowing
largely tied to those projects. Consequently, the overall deficit was only
CFAF 1.9 billion. For 1981, a further large increase in imports of capital
goods was expected. Along with weak export performance and stagnating
transfer receipts, the current account deficit was estimated to reach
CFAF 42.5 billion or 16 percent of GDP, representing a 70 percent increase
over 1980. The overall deficit would increase to CFAF 3.1 billion, in spite
of a near doubling in foreign loan disbursement.
Development Plan
15.       A Three-Year Plan (1978-80) was issued in October 1977, setting out
_ _.vernment s economic goals. Its declared objectives were to raise the
starncard of living, to strengthen economic policies and to promote participa-
tion in the preparation and implementation of economic and social changes.
The Plan favors large-scale projects, the major projects being: the Cotonou
Port extension (US$50 million) financed by IDA and seven other agencies; a
40,000 ton sugar project at Save (US$210 million); a 500,000 ton cement plant
at Onigbolo (US$159 million); and the Seme offshore oil development project
(US$130 million). These projects together account for about 50 percent of
Plan investment. Work on the Cotonou Port is almost completed, but has
suffered from cost overruns. The sugar and cement projects are joint ventures
with the Nigerian government, with Nigerian marketing and financing guarantees.
The production of sugar, cement and oil should start in late 1982.
16.       Plan implementation has achieved less than 50 percent of its objec-
tives. Major difficulties include inadequate project preparation, coordina-
tion, and execution control, as well as delays in obtaining foreign financial
commitments. Recently, however, the government has succeeded in accelerating
commitments from foreign aid donors, and total public investment is likely to
be around US$750 million in the five-year period 1978-82. As a result, the
ratio of investment to GDP is estimated to have risen from 20 percent of GDP
in 1976 to 25 percent in 1981, with most of the increase accounted for by
investment in the large projects mentioned above.



- 5 -
17.       Benin is now going through a period of consolidation during which
results of the 1978-80 plan are being assessed.  For 1981-82, the government
is implementing an Interim Plan for Investment and Production, pending the
coming on stream of the next development plan, probably covering the period
1983-85. The latter is conceived within the framework of a development
strategy for the decade 1980-90, set out in a major government document which
was presented at the United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Coun-
tries (LLDCs) held in May 1981. The ten-year development framework foresees
a doubling of real GDP by 1990. This is rather optimistic in light of past
performance and ecological as well as human resource and financial constraints.
Benin has decided to convene a donors' conference in the Fall of 1982 to solicit
foreign assistance. The Bank was invited and has agreed to attend.
Prospects
18.       The medium-term economic outlook in Benin is for real GDP to grow
by 4 percent annually during the 1981-85 period. The risks to Benin's economy
are export prospects in markets of neighboring countries, the worsening
financial situation of state enterprises, and potential problems in implement-
ing the large projects. Prospects in agriculture will depend on remunerative
pricing for export crops and marketing policies for food crops.  In the long
term, growth could slow down unless the government is able to channel re-
sources and orient its economic development programs towards the development
of food and cash crops.
19.       Benin's public finances may be subject to greater pressures during
the 1981-85 period than during the preceding five-years. With a growing
capital stock to maintain, tendencies to increase recruitment in the public
sector and pressures to prevent a further drop in real incomes, current
expenditures are likely to rise faster in the future than in the recent
past, leading to growing budget deficits on current operations. The relative
pause in investment expenditure between the completion of the ongoing large
projects and the effective start of a new development plan a few years hence,
should be a countervailing force with a favorable impact on the balance of
payments. Currently, implementation of the major industrial projects is
proceeding satisfactorily. However, the substantial and sustained benefits
that these large projects could confer on the budget and the balance of
payments will depend on the extent to which they lead to efficient production
and an ability to compete on the Nigerian market.
20.       Reflecting increased investment, Benin's external debt (including
undisbursed) rose from US$441 million (1979) to US$719 million by end-1980, of
which about 50 percent was held by commercial banks. Of the total external
borrowing, about 40 percent went to financing the major cement, oil, and
sugar projects and nearly 90 percent of the US$324 million committed during
1980 was provided by private banks, almost exclusively for industrial projects.
The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services is estimated to



- 6 -
have risen from 3 percent in 1980 to 10 percent in 1981, and is projected to
approach 20 percent in the mid-1980's, largely on the basis of debt already
contracted. Although comparatively high, up to two thirds of the debt service
burden is on account of industrial projects in association with Nigeria and
the related debt is mutually guaranteed by the governments of Benin and
Nigeria. Nevertheless, considering the magnitude and remaining uncertainties
of these projects, great caution is required in contracting additional foreign
debt, particularly on hard terms.
21.       In view of the country's low per capita income, the growing need
for external funding of priority projects in an expanding economy, and Benin's
narrow export base, it will be necessary to increase the volume of foreign
financing on concessionary terms. Benin is expected to be able to finance
no more than 10-15 percent of a reduced public investment program; thus
foreign donors should continue to provide a large share of total project
costs, including some financing of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
22.       To date, the Bank Group has extended sixteen credits to Benin
totalling US$139.2 million, including two supplementary credits. Four of
the credits were for agriculture (24 percent of total lending), six for
road construction and maintenance (42 percent), two for energy (power and
petroleum) and one each for port expansion, education, urban water supply and
development of small-scale enterprises. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank Group operations in Benin, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
23.       The Bank Group's first operation in Benin, the Hinvi Agricultural
Development Project (FY69), was aimed at increasing oil palm planting and
food crop production. It achieved less than the intended objectives because
poor rainfall hampered the expansion of oil palm planting and labor constraints
reduced the scope for food crop production. The second agricultural project
(FY72) was intended to raise production of both cash crop (cotton) and food
crop in the Zou and Borgou provinces. The objectives of raising cotton
production was not achieved due to frequent changes in government policies and
reorganizations of institutions in the sector. Food crop production, however,
increased in response to rising cross-border demand in Nigeria. IDA assistance
to agriculture was continued with a Technical Assistance project (FY77) which
helped complete preparation for two follow-up Rural Development projects.
One of them (in Borgou province) was approved in FY81 and provided for expand-
ing agricultural production (cotton and food crop) through improving support
institutions and technical infrastructures. The second project (in Zou prov-
ince) was appraised in November 1981, and will be submitted for Board conside-
ration during FY83.
24.       IDA's involvement in Benin's transport sector began with its role
as Executing Agency for a 1969 UNDP land transport study, followed by a
highway maintenance credit signed in FY69. To date, bank lending has included
four projects in highways and two in feeder roads. In FY78, the Association
led a group of co-lenders in financing a major extension of the Cotonou



- 7 -
harbor, and providing technical assistance to improve port operations. This
project has encountered some cost overruns, which were met by supplementary
financing obtained from the co-lenders.
25.       The First Education Project (FY74) aimed to train rural youth and
upgrade the country's vocational training capacity. The proposed Second
Education Project would consist of training for primary and lower secondary
school teachers, and the production and distribution of textbooks.
26.       In FY80, IDA granted a credit to the Banque Beninoise pour le
Developpement (BBD), the national development bank providing medium- and long-
term loans to both the public and private sectors. The project is aimed at
financing small- and medium-scale enterprises, and strengthening BBD's manage-
ment and project preparation capacity.
27.       The Bank Group initiated its operation in the water supply and
sanitation sector with a Cotonou Water/Sanitation Engineering Project approved
in FY81. The project is aimed at addressing the most urgent water and sanita-
tion needs of Cotonou, and through studies, helping to define and implement
long-range sector objectives and strategies.
28.       In the energy sector, the Association is financing a Power En-
gineering and Technical Assistance Project (FY82), a regional undertaking
involving Togo and Benin, which aims at helping the two countries complete
preparations for the Nangbeto hydroelectric scheme, and lay the groundwork for
national as well as regional energy planning. Another credit (FY82) aims to
assist the government in training Beninese personnel in oil field operations,
promoting further exploration by foreign companies, and preparing for a
second-phase development of the Seme off-shore oil field.
29.       In the medium term, Bank Group lending in Benin is expected to
continue in sectors with existing IDA involvement, such as agriculture and
transport, and, in addition, the energy and urban sectors.
30.       In Benin, the time lag between credit signing and declaration of
effectiveness has averaged about one year. This delay was due to the cumber-
some administrative procedures that came into effect with the promulgation of
a new Constitution and the election of a National Assembly in 1980. Following
discussions with Bank staff, the Government has now adopted new procedures
that should simplify and speed up the declaration of effectiveness.
31.       In terms of disbursement profiles, projects in Benin vary from
sector to sector. However, experience to date indicates that a common problem
leading to delays has been an inability by government to make timely contribu-
tions of counterpart funds. This problem has recently been exacerbated by the
Benin budgetary position which is moving into a period of stringency. The
Association is exploring means to assist the Benin Government in resolving
these difficulties.



- 8 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
30.       The net impact of recent developments in the education sector has
been mixed. Positive steps have been made toward expanding enrollments in
primary and secondary schools and in containing the proportion of Government's
recurrent budget spent for education. However, during this period of rapid
growth and cost containment, the Government has not provided the teachers
textbooks, or facilities required to maintain the quality of education. What
remains as the main issue facing the educational system is how Government can
continue to increase access to primary education and, at the same time,
improve the quality of education and direct education and training more
toward key manpower requirements.
Access to Education
31.       Despite rapid growth in enrollments, the gross primary school
enrollment ratio in 1977 was still only about 50 percent. Furthermore the
ratio for primary school enrollment varies by region from 26 to 76 percent,
with higher enrollment ratios recorded in the densely populated coastal
areas. There is also a significant difference in the enrollment ratios
between girls and boys at both primary and secondary school levels: the ratio
for girls at the primary school level is about 27 percent, compared with about
58 percent for boys. Continuing to expand primary education would require not
only an increase in the number of school places but also in the number of
qualified teachers and in the production of educational materials.
Quality of Education
32.       Government has taken a number of measures to improve the quality and
efficiency of education in Benin.  Until 1977, efforts had been constrained in
part by the lack of suitable institutions for teacher training and, further-
more, by the nearly total absence of instructional materials. Therefore,
since 1978 Government has reorganized the training of primary school teachers
by establishing six institutions for training primary school teachers. A
number of important problems however continue to face the training of primary
and lower secondary school teachers: (i) the new institutions are operating
temporarily in small, poorly-equipped facilities which cannot train teachers
to required standards; (ii) no program for training lower secondary school
teachers has yet been established; and (iii) no program has yet been created
for teacher training in vocational and agricultural subjects which are essen-
tial for orienting the education system more toward meeting manpower require-
ments. To improve the distribution of textbooks, the National Institute for
Training and Educational Research (INFRE) has recently begun to prepare
manuscripts for textbooks for the primary and lower secondary levels. How-
ever, Government does not yet have the capacity in textbook printing, storage,
or distribution necessary to operate a national textbook program.



- 9
Education Expenditures and Financing
33.       There are a number of financial issues facing educational develop-
ment in Benin. First, during the past ten years the government has been
allocating about 35 percent of its annual recurrent budget to education, but
only about 50 percent of the primary school age children are in primary
school. Second, although salaries are low, a substantial proportion of the
recurrent funds for education have been going into an escalating total wage
bill for teachers in the expanding education system and almost no funds have
been allocated for the purchase of textbooks, teachers' guides or other educa-
tional materials. Finally, government has ambitious plans for developing
secondary technical education which would lead to a large increase in the
recurrent expenditures for education.
34.       Aware of the increasing proportion of educational expenditure in the
recurrent budget, the government has implemented a series of cost-containment
measures, which include: (i) employing large numbers of untrained teachers in
primary schools; (ii) using university students as secondary school teachers;
(iii) reducing the number of scholarships; (iv) freezing the salaries of civil
servants, including teachers; (v) reducing the education cycle of primary
school from six to five years and of secondary school from seven to six years;
and (vi) increasing the teaching load of secondary school teachers. While
these measures have helped to contain educational costs, they have affected
adversely the quality of education. However, costs could be contained while
improving educational quality and more funds made available for education if
government were to: (i) control the growth of enrollment in secondary educa-
tion; (ii) review present boarding and scholarship policies in secondary and
higher education; (iii) maintain high pupil/teacher ratios; and (iv) diversify
the sources of education finance.
Meeting Key Manpower Requirements
35.       The low quality of education in Benin has been a constraint to
addressing key manpower requirements since graduates often do not possess
the knowledge and skills necessary to perform effectively in employment.
Moreover, only about 50 percent of manpower requirements are met by the annual
output of middle and upper level personnel from the existing institutions.
In addition, less than half of the teachers are qualified Beninese, and the
facilities and equipment at their disposal are in poor condition. At present,
the educational system trains few people in many different specializations,
while the economy would be better served with training more people but in only
a few key fields. To resolve these problems, the government needs to improve
the coordination of training efforts with general education, employer require-
ments and budgetary resources.
Government's Strategy for Educational Developments
36.       The orientation of the Benin education system over the next ten
years will be based on the Education Reform Decree. In general, there
will be an attempt to make all levels of education more employment-oriented.
The Government's program for primary education includes (a) providing addi-
tional facilities, (b) improving and expanding the training and upgrading of
teachers, (c) supplying the schools with adequate educational materials, and



- 10 -
(d) creating groups at schools to engage in productive work as part of their
schooling. Programs for technical education and vocational training are also
being developed and it is intended to improve the teaching of science and
mathematics in general secondary schools.
The Bank Group's Role in the Education Sector
37.       The Bank Group has been associated with the education/training
sector in Benin primarily through lending for rural youth training and voca-
tional training under the first education project. This IDA credit (FY74)
provided for the development of rural youth literacy, the teaching of simple
agricultural techniques, and the vocational upgrading of workers in the modern
industrial sector in a new training center (CPPE). Project effectiveness was
delayed and its implementation proceeded at a slow pace due to major revisions
in the government's approach to rural development and also to delays in civil
works. The trend has improved and project implementation has accelerated:
the construction of the National Support Center and three Regional Support
Centers for the rural youth training program have been completed. In addition,
an evaluation study of the rural youth training component has recently been
completed and indicates that the approach taken: (a) encourages young people
to stay in their village and engage in agricultural activities; (b) has demon-
strated to many villages the potential value of agricultural cooperatives. On
the other hand, participants in the training gained much less literacy than
planned and agricultural activities were not successful in areas where little
land could be placed at the participants' disposal. The vocational upgrading
center should be fully operational in the next few months and a well drilling
component is making good progress. The project is expected to be completed in
late 1982.
38.       The sectoral objectives which the government is pursuing are
reasonable, and in the long-term the Bank Group should support the govern-
ment's efforts to attain universal primary education, improve the quality
of education, and satisfy agricultural and industrial manpower needs. For
an acceptable quality of education to be maintained under the present circum-
stances, teachers will have to be trained in methods appropriate for teaching
large classes and an adequate supply of textbooks will have to be made avail-
able. At the secondary level, the government should slow the growth of
secondary general education and moderately expand technical education and
vocational training; university education should be developed gradually,
taking into account possibilities for training abroad. In addition, govern-
ment will need to continue containing costs and carefully examining the
cost-effectiveness of specific proposals.  Future Bank Group operations
should be designed against this background and aim at providing guidance on
sectoral policies and on the selection and implementation of carefully planned
projects.
39.       Assistance from outside the Bank Group.  The most important bilateral
and multilateral donors for educational development in Benin include France,
Canada, the EEC, and the ADB. The ADB and EEC are assisting with the develop-
ment of technical education for the industrial, commercial, agricultural and
health sectors. The government of Canada is financing the construction and



- 11 -
equipping of a university-level polytechnical institute. France is the most
important source of technical assistance personnel. Higher education receives
about 70 percent of the external assistance, mostly in the form of scholarships
and salaries of technical assistance teaching staff. External donors have
also provided assistance to secondary education in the form of teaching staff
and the construction and equipping of schools.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background and Preparation
40.       A Bank/Unesco mission visited Benin in October 1979 to identify
the proposed project. The teacher training and infrastructure components,
including technical, agricultural and home economics programs, were further
analysed in detail during a Unesco preparation mission in January/February
1980. The project was pre-appraised in July 1980 and a preparation review
mission visited Benin in February 1981. The project was appraised in
May 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1982 with a
Beninese delegation led by the Minister for Secondary, Technical and Profes-
sional Education. Annex III contains supplementary project data. Funds
available under a project preparation compoment of the First Education Project
(Credit 583-BEN) financed initial expenditures for equipment, vehicles and
staff of the Project Unit, which has been created within MEMGTP. PPF advances
amounting to a total of US$1,000,000 were approved in October 1980 and February
1982 to finance architectural design work, preparation of textbook manuscripts
and the establishment of the Project Unit. Preparation of final architectural
drawings and bidding documents is proceeding and should be completed about the
time of credit effectiveness.
Project Objectives
41.     The main objective of the project is to assist in improving the qual-
ity and efficiency of primary and lower secondary education by increasing the
numbers of qualified teachers and textbooks available for these levels. Over
the long-term these efforts should not only reverse the recent trend toward a
deterioration in the quality of education, but also improve the efficiency of
education by reducing dropout and repeater rates and by providing graduates
who are better prepared for the workplace.
Project Description
42.       The proposed project, to be implemented over the 1982-87 period,
would comprise the following components:
(a) Primary and Lower Secondary Education: construction, furniture,
equipment, specialist services and fellowships to establish three
teacher training colleges;



- 12 -
(b) Textbook Production and Distribution: construction, furniture,
equipment, specialist services and fellowships to prepare manu-
scripts and establish a printing facility and six regional distribu-
tion warehouses; and
(c)  Project Management, Evaluation and Planning:  specialist services,
equipment and operating costs for project management, and specialist
services for evaluation of this proposed project and the preparation
of future education projects.
43.       Primary and Lower Secondary Teacher Education.  Three colleges
to train primary and lower secondary school teachers to a higher standard and
in larger numbers ("Ecoles Normales Integrees"--ENIs) would replace the six
colleges which the Government is now operating on a temporary basis. In
accordance with the Government's decentralization strategy, the colleges would
be located in the northern and central parts of the country, where the numbers
of qualified teachers are currently low--namely in Lokossa (Mono region),
Parakou (Borgou region), and Natitingou (Atacora region). The colleges would
upgrade the quality of teacher training by consolidating the one-year training
program of primary teachers in general subjects at the three ENIs and add new
two-year programs for the training of lower secondary teachers in general
subjects. The project would also support a program at one of the ENIs to
train teachers in technical and agricultural subjects and home economics for
the lower secondary level. In addition to considerably upgrading the quality
and relevance of teacher training, the colleges would achieve a permanent
increase in the annual output of qualified primary and junior secondary
teachers from 800 to 935. When compared with the situation existing before
the temporary programs were established, the new colleges will allow for a
permanent increase in the annual output of primary and junior secondary school
teachers from 170 to 935. Instructional staff for the three colleges would
include the staff of existing teacher training facilities. As this staff
lacks experience in operating the programs in technical and agricultural
subjects and home economics, 56 staff-months of specialist services and 168
staff-months of fellowships would be provided to train and upgrade local
staff.
44.       Most of the students for the primary teacher training program would
be recruited from among lower secondary school graduates who have no prior
teacher training but have already served as teachers. Upon graduation, they
would be certified as teachers with the first level of qualification and could
be certified at the next higher level after following in-service courses over
a several-year period. Recruitment of the students for the lower secondary
program would be from among upper secondary school graduates. All teacher
training students would be boarders on government scholarships. Responsibility
for the further development of the ENI training programs and graduation norms
would rest with INFRE.
45.       The program for training lower secondary teachers of agriculture
is closely related to a government program to upgrade and expand the upper
secondary agricultural school in Sekou and establish three new lower secondary
agricultural schools in various regions. This program has been reviewed by
IDA and found satisfactory. Government will implement the program by June 30,
1987 (Section 4.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
46.       After the opening of the three project-financed ENIs, the Government
will transfer sufficient staff, equipment and facilities to the ENI concerned
so as to enable the consolidation of the teacher training program as planned;
it will subsequently close existing schools for training primary and lower
secondary school teachers (Section 4.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement.) As the government has had difficulty in maintaining educational
facilities and equipment, the project would finance 6 man-months of services
of a maintenance specialist to work with the architectural consultants and the
staff of the MEMGTP in preparing a plan for future building and equipment
maintenance for the three teacher training colleges.
47.       Textbook Production and Distribution.  The project would finance the
establishment of a program within the MEMGTP to prepare and distribute an
average of about 470,000 textbooks and teaching guides per year. The Ministry
would be strengthened by providing about 166 staff-months of technical assis-
tance for on-the-job training of the local personnel who would develop curri-
cula, edit textbooks, and staff the print shop. Eighty-five staff-months of
fellowships would be granted to train abroad personnel for the print shop.
The project would also finance civil works, equipment, furniture and con-
sumable materials for the print shop and its central warehouse to be located
in Porto Novo, plus six regional warehouses to be situated at each of the
principal education centers. Textbook manuscripts would be produced with the
assistance of eleven teams of educators on contract with INFRE. A technical
commission established within INFRE and comprising educators, teachers and
educational inspectors for each discipline would review a total 36 manuscripts.
48.       An additional 9 staff-months of services of an evaluation specialist
would be provided to assist the MEMGTP in preparing a study on the use and
impact of the educational materials produced under the project. The govern-
ment would submit to IDA by December 31, 1986, a copy of the results of this
evaluation study, in accordance with a research design satisfactory to IDA
(Section 4.03(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Furthermore, as
educational printing bureaus in West Africa function most effectively when
they have administrative and financial autonomy, government will by December
31, 1982 have taken the necessary steps for the establishment of an autonomous
educational bureau located within the MEMGTP (Section 4.09 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
49.       Project Management, Evaluation and Planning.  The project would be
administered by the Project Unit established within the MEMGTP and directed
by a senior official assisted by two part-time deputy directors and an
accountant, all recruited locally (Section 4.01(d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). A building technician and four construction supervisors
would also work with the Project Unit. The Unit would be strengthened by
150 staff-months of technical assistance in project management and in the
coordination of the architectural program and civil works. Given the limited
accounting expertise within the MEMGTP, the project also provided for 12
staff-months of technical assistance by an independent auditing firm, which
would: (a) assist in establishing an acceptable project accounting system,
(b) provide periodic on-the-job training of local staff, and (c) carry out
annual audits. The project would also provide 60 staff-months of fellowships
to upgrade Project Unit staff in project management, procurement and account-
ing. The Project Director would submit quarterly progress reports to IDA and,
in addition, the Government would submit to IDA within six months of the
completion date of the project a final report on the implementation experience



- 14 -
and achievements of the project (Section 4.03(d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
50.       The project's evaluation specialist would also assist the MEMGTP
in evaluating the other project components in addition to the textbook compo-
nent and in preparing a project completion report. The specialist's primary
responsibility would be to help the Ministry establish systems for data col-
lection, analysis and reporting on these matters. The project would also
finance 12 staff-months of services of architectural and education specialists
to assist the government in planning and preparing future education projects.
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
51.       The project would include a total of 401 staff-months of techni-
cal assistance and 313 staff-months of fellowships. The qualifications,
experience and terms of reference of these specialists would be acceptable to
IDA (Section 4.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Fellowships
would be awarded to suitably qualified candidates who would serve at least two
years in the positions for which they were trained (Section 4.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
52.       Project costs (inclusive of taxes) are estimated at US$30.38 million
with a foreign exchange component of US$13.70 million (45 percent). Taxes
would amount to US$4.74 million.
53.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR12.2 million (US$14.0 million equiv-
alent) and a grant of SF 7 million (US$3.5 million) from the Swiss Agency
for Development Cooperation would jointly finance the teacher training and
project management components, and would together cover 68 percent of the
net-of-tax cost. The credit would finance 100 percent of the foreign costs
(net of taxes) and 36 percent of the local costs (net of taxes) of the teacher
training and project management components. The German Agency for Technical
Cooperation would provide the equivalent of about US$4.7 million to finance
the textbook component in parallel with the joint IDA and Swiss financing.
Consequently, the effectiveness of the Swiss grant and the execution of the
grant agreement between Benin and Germany would be conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed IDA credit (Section 7.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Total external financing would cover 87 percent of the total
net-of-tax cost (US$25.64 million). The government's contribution would
amount to US$3.4 million, equal to 13 percent of the total net-of-tax cost,
and US$4.7 million for taxes.
Unit Costs
54.       The average cost of construction at the teachers colleges ranges
from US$400 per square meter for classrooms to US$450 for staff housing.
The base cost of construction per student place ranges from US$10,000 to
US$13,000, with the higher unit cost due to the distance from the coast and
the relatively smaller student body of one of the colleges. The average base
cost of furniture is US$600 per student. These base costs compare favorably
with those for similar institutions in the rest of the region. The base cost



- 1 5 -
of equipment varies from US$700 to US$1,400 per student. The average cost of
technical assistance (net-of-taxes) is estimated at US$8,700 per staff-month,
including salary, allowances and overhead.
Recurrent Cost Implications
55.       In 1985, when the project-assisted programs are expected to become
fully operational, the government's annual recurrent expenditures would
increase by about US$1.35 million per year in 1981 prices. This would cor-
respond to about 2.5 percent of the 1981 government recurrent budget for
education. The recurrent costs generated by project activities would, there-
fore, be relatively small when compared with the anticipated government
expenditures on education at the time the project-assisted programs are fully
operational. Before December 31, 1983, the government would submit to IDA for
comment a detailed plan for ensuring the provision of adequate budgetary funds
and personnel to operate and maintain the project-financed facilities (Section
5.02(c) draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation and Accounting
56.       The Project Unit, which has already been established, would adminis-
ter the proposed project and be responsible for liaison with external financ-
ing agencies. MEMGTP and the other two ministries involved with the project
have each designated a permanent representative responsible for liaison with
the Project Unit. An interministerial National Commission for Technical
Education would advise the Project Director on the planning and implementation
of the teacher training programs for technical and agricultural subjects and
home economics. The government will establish by July 31, 1982 at a bank
acceptable to the Association a working fund of CFAF 5.0 million (US$20,000),
to be replenished quarterly, to expedite project implementation by prefinan-
cing local salary and operating costs as well as the purchase of small items
of equipment and materials. (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The Project Unit would establish and maintain the necessary accounts and
records for the project, in accordance with established government financial
and accounting procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and government would
submit independent audits to the Bank annually (Section 5.01 of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Sites
57.       The government has selected suitable sites for all project-assisted
institutions and has obtained legal title for those sites. A condition of
disbursement for the construction of any ENI would be that government had
provided access, water and electricity to the site of that ENI(Schedule 1,
para. 3(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). Before construction of any
ENI the government would submit evidence to IDA that a suitable number of
residences for staff are available near that ENI site (Section 4.05 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
Procurement
58.       Civil works contracts valued at US$17.7 million including taxes, and
furniture and equipment contracts valued at US$2.9 million including taxes,
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with IDA's guidelines. Packages of furniture and equipment estimated
to cost between US$20,000 and US$50,000 each, not suitable for international
competitive bidding, would be procured in accordance with local competitive
procedures acceptable to IDA. Equipment and furniture estimated to cost less
than US$20,000 would be procured through negotiated purchase on the basis of
quotations from at least three reliable suppliers whenever possible. The
aggregate value of such items is estimated not to exceed US$300,000. For all
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, IDA would
review bidding documents and bid evaluation documents before the contracts
are awarded. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin
of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the total applicable
customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. Domestic contractors
would be given a preference of 7.5 percent in the evaluation of bids for civil
works. Professional services estimated to cost US$1.17 million and specialist
services estimated at US$3.28 million would be obtained in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The remaining costs, about US$1.0 million,
would consist of administrative costs and fellowships.   Procurement of goods
and services related to the textbook component which would be financed by the
GTZ would be carried out in accordance with the relevant guidelines of that
agency.
Disbursement
59.       The IDA credit would be disbursed to cover the costs of the following
items for the teacher training and project management components:
(a)  40 percent of total civil works expenditures;
(b)  64 percent of total expenditure for furniture and equipment;
(c)  64 percent of total expenditure for professional fees;
(d)  80 percent of total expenditure for consultants and specialists
services;
(e)  80 percent of total expenditure for fellowships;
(f)  64 percent of total expenditure for operating costs; and statements
of expenditures;
(g)  100 percent of the withdrawn PPF funds (US$1.0 million).
US$2.16 million of the proposed credit would be unallocated.  All disburse-
ments from the credit would be fully documented.



- 17 -
Benefits and Risks
60.       The project would improve the quality of primary and lower secondary
education by raising the standard of training for primary and lower secondary
teachers, and by increasing the annual output of primary and lower secondary
teachers from about 800 to 935 and by distributing an average of about 470,000
textbooks per year to primary and lower secondary students. In addition, the
project would strengthen INFRE's capacity to prepare and distribute textbooks,
and training teachers for vocational, technical and agricultural subjects will
allow government to better orient secondary education toward meeting priority
manpower requirements. Over the long term, the project would help also to
improve the efficiency of the educational system by reducing dropout and
repetition rates and lowering the cost per graduate.
61.       The lack of adequately prepared local staff to operate the teacher
training programs for technical and agricultural subjects and home economics
in the newly created ENIs poses a number of risks for the project. There are
also risks that the lack of experience with operating a full-scale textbook
production unit could constrain the implementation of the textbook component.
By providing technical assistance and fellowships for the training of local
staff to operate both these programs, the risks would, however, be reduced.
As this would be the first Bank Group assisted education project within the
MEMGTP, significant attention must be paid to Government's ability to manage
the construction of the civil works effectively. The risks associated with
this component should be low given the advanced state of architectural
designs, careful review of project management issues and provision of
technical assistance for the Project Unit.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
63.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of credit effec-
tiveness would be (a) that the conditions precedent to initial disbursements
under the Swiss grant, except for the effectiveness of the IDA Agreement, have
been fulfilled, (b) that the Grant Agreement between Germany and Benin has
been executed, (c) that the following technical assistance specialists have
taken up their positions: assistant to the director, coordinator of works,
specialist in maintenance, and independent auditor. A special condition of
disbursement for the construction of any ENI would be that Government provide
access and utility services to the site of that ENI.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.                                by  E. Stern
April 22, 1982



- 19 -                                        ANNEX I
TABl F 3A
RENIN- SOIAL INI)ICATORS DATA SIHEET
BENIN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEI.IHTF) AVF7ACES
LAND AhLA (TIIOUSIND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MO)ST RECENT ESTIPATE)-: 
ITIAL            112.6                                MST RECENT           LOW INCMtE             MIDDLF INCOIP
ALhlLULTUIAL      10.2              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIIATE lb  AFRICA SOiUTII OF SAHARA  AFRICA ';ji,,i OF SARAEA
0NY PEK CAPITA (US$)                 90.0        120.0    250.0                 238.3                   794..2
1.NFR{Y f .:;T 'Yl'IAN 'Fl CAI'A
(KILULKAMI. (k COAL EQUIVALENT)    39.9        54.0       67.5                 70.5                   707.5
POPU'LAIION A?ID VTTAL STATINTICS
LPLL.il,N. HI-i'LAR (ThU,LSANDS)  2049.8      2645.6    3425.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.5         12.6      13.9                 17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATl_N IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      6.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        19.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REAGHED                 2110
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       17.7        23.5      30.4                 27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.6      264.0      326.7                 73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.1        45.3      46.0                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                        53.3        52.0       51.3                52.4                     51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.6          2.7       2.7                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.6        2.9                  2.6                     2.8
URBAN                             5.8         5.4        3.9                  6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH kRATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.5       49.2       48.7                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     26.5        21.9      18.5                 19.3                    15.8
GQOSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.3          3.3       3.3                  3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TUOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
0OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         95.0        101.0      97.0                 89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  93.0         96.0      98.0                 90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         51.0         53.0      51.0                 52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       14.0        15.0      13.0                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) NDRTALITY RATE    41.0        32.2       25.4                 27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.2         42.4      46.7                 45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         206.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..       21.0                 23.9                    27-4
URBAN                               ..         ..       50.0                 55.0                    74.3
RURAL                              ..          ..       16.0                 18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
o0 POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         14.0       ..                  26.2
URBAN                               ..       83.0        ..                  63.5
URAL                               ..         1.0        ..                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        23031.3    28447.1  26883.3                 31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2860.1   3035.9                3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            747.6       846.9    735.5                1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                           538.1        231.6     393.9                272.8                   423.0
RURAL                            779.5      2185.5   1134.6                1745.2                  3543.2
AMISSIONS Pta HOSPITAL BED            ..        30.2      17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE UMBER Of PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URAN                                ..         ..         .
RUILAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                               ..         ..



- 20 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2
TAPLE 3A
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            l.W 1                    MIOCT.j: INC(OMF
1960  _b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOLTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJI STED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TrTAL                 26.0         40.0       60.0                   56.4                      73.7
MALE                  38.0          55.0      78.0                   70.7                      96.8
FEMALE                15.0         25.0       42.0                   50.1                      79.0
SECONDARY,   TOTAL                   2.0           5.0      12.0                   10.0                      16.2
MALE                    2.0          8.0      18.0                   13.6                      25.3
FiMALE                  1.0          3.0       7.0                    6.6                      14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  13.0             4.1       6.0                    8.0                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             41.0         44.0       55.0                   46.5                      36.2
SECONDARY                           23.0         26.0       31.0/d                 25.5                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           8.0         11.0/e                           25.5
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          4.6        5.4                    2.9                      32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          12.2         32.1       46.5                   32.8                      69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                                   0.1                    1.9                       8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL,
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     2.0          0.8       0.3                    2.8                      20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2             0.4                              1.2                       0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1048.9       1285.7    1572.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    45.4         45.1       44 2                   34.1                      36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               54.0         49.7       46.4                   80.0                      56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.0         11.8       15.5                    8.6                      17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  51.2         48.6      45.9                   41.7                      37.2
KALE                                   57.1         54.3      52.0                   54.3                      47.1
FEMALE                                 45.5        43.1       40.0                   29.2                      27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9          1.0        1.1                   1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   31.4/c
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.77T
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5. 57T
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.87T
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                             136 0                     381 2
RIURAL                                                      84.0                   84.5                     156.2
ESTIHATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                              99 1                     334.3
RURAL                                                       82.0                   61.2                     137.6
ESTIlMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                          .                   39.7
RURAL                                                       65.0                   68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Population;  /d 1975;  /e 1973.
May, 1981



- 21 -                                                                         ANNX I
Iage 3
DEFINITIONS OF SPElt] INDICATORS
totes   Allhogh the data ar  dr-s  frog Iro           eealyjde-heee   uhori-si-neand tel labl, 00l thould also be noted that theY sydnot bener
nationally coteparable because of the lack if ergodardleed dIntoe so lcneps  .d by dIfferen  countrie  to colcin              h  dar.  Tedt  aeIoe
theless,.. usfu1l.t desorth  order. of augoloude  Indicats tred., cud charcteIzecetin  -J.r dlffer..nc-  he..ee. co-notes
The nefetnce trOuptare (1) te sane contry grot  of the subject coutr  aid (2) aIonoy gou  00t .1h   se    htghe-  -neog  i-coss than the couttry grou
ofteebjsot coutr  (etrep  for 'CaIta  tuplsOt Exporters". trou  obr   Muddle  t.cose Soot.h Aft -c  and ,tddle Eas'  scoe                           ss  of srne
cic-cu.ltua   fftiltituse.  loo1herenr-nce  gro-p data the snraesar  pp            isio   etgtd so otue Ilc nesne.for eso thiud    orad shwnony b,
wejootr  of thecouttoss toagoup  ba  oars fr thaotodinatr.  ttne the cverage  f tounrtos anog theindtoatrs dapnds or  hseoaiabtltIfof_dat
L,AOO  ,0  Ihuad  q. AcREAtc.jr Hspta  te- oa,  ra,ed coral - Foclatto -                                                                                                     tn-
Total - Totalsur aceurr  cn0 leg lard urea and irlan.            ses.uhn.d                                     -roo) 'dtoddb   hirrsetorneifhoptlbt
for ltops I.   tre    ate   and..ither gatdene  in no . IItison 19Nde.hblcto cner-   npas era estahi b-an   parsanesly statted
GNP  Ot .CAPITA 1USth  - Atp.ttoccl       etiae  st c -oon  wadel       pies       l                dial  .ar. ... not itL.d       oe       optLs,I ho..ener, tioluda hsarh
c_late  by sass conesto   rthd as bond Isok Atlas. 11977-79 hneis)  19,                            -rd nedlo cnooI       nnpsoanertly stIfted by a phyattuan  lint byl
197   end 1979 data.                                                                            sedi-I a..et-etort            nus,sdnifn, mc.  stitchfte  to-pan.i.. IcO
datict and provide s lie ited rage of  edtcl  fcIIie,   o  sars
ENSEROCTCNS TIOONll rEt CAP ITA - Aonl coac. pi. Iof comeria " enry I(coa                            cua  purposes  lthat hospitaIls_ inclde Alto  pr,or lPsIgaeahoptas
and Ilgite.  erio,ntr,             o   n  tydro-, _ncEar and erteslse-ad hrual                                    ...Ittl  loaoI  rra   oapitai  en d sediaan   aeta
toot inrklore  ofca qIvaen  le.cpitno 1960, 1970, and 1979                                   .ett.r.. Speclaltast Ice ,Itas ar  iorluded only unde  total.
data.                                                                                            IdBsos  e   001tlld - Toisi.. ouber of adaior  too   dtschsrges
ctcs bpiaedinidad by tts nuabar nf beds.
POPULOTIIN MD1 blTAt STATISTICS
Mns   nulto~iid-Trar lthuo-adsl - us of Juiy 1; 1960, 1910, and 1919                HOCtItA
data.                                                             Aneraan bite of~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..u.shold (persons per hou..rboldl     otl urban, and 
UlrbstFr tin(ecn  ifttl       i                  f urban. to tn... populaion;                     u h...ebild coists of a group of indinidosla nhc share lingqott
dtlf-r-t  definItions of trban        IIrra  aa -te       -lsprbtLltycof dan                    an   hi   atsas            tcre r dgt say or say notbe irlotsd in
sant  ounris;190.  97, ad  97  daa                                                   tehoosho    o   ttsia    upae
Poouiacto  Projections                                                                          oorncuertean  rtro-ocl   ra. n   ua-   nsage one
Polu.istio  it year 21010- Curen-     op cirp...j.c. ion  are  ...r inb91o  of pers.ons yr ro-  it aluban,en  rsl ccpted  -onoe1tonI
toulppost- by ag-sd ers  td thei  sorta1lY and fetlm    ae.delca   ePect l ly.  OslogssnIoe.nwpraetsrcoe   n
IngI is  ope naoyat  trb  icorslg tnt  outrys  et  a pnsinossAccess to Elnciittt  lpsrcs-  of dwellins ..    toalI               rban~, ad rorsi-
oesefor f-rtl y rar also hve tbn. level  seen wing declice in                             of toa,obar, ond tonal do-ll ing  raeot
f otlltly  ....rdIn8 to    ...oa  .se.  ndps..     nl   lnnn    efo ne
aod tertllIcy crendaicr.o-bleci...purposs.                                    ydMus-d EnolILsI_o  SeioI
insclonar populaton-t    ttcny             oua iothrre is no groeth since                 Priwaro a-ol - totl, walensd frasie - Cros  tota, sal  end fena
thr bitlhrt inqulo the death tap,an  also the  :ge eutr                                          noiet of all Igra an nhe prisury lee1           s  eonagsoYeaet
otoenelur_Oel t eoatl.   he.ininay                      ..u.no  alonw                     cntira with oni-er-a  educatIon I_olen  say e e  ill Percen
-scisand on thr heefs of thr  cIos.           htostclwo  thr popunlanTo                         sIc   os oiir err bwoe or atone the nff icia1 athoi sg.
lo- er00,sd the toe of dsclinr of f-til ily rats toteplace-                         orodaoshol-noa,waead                    feeeCosponedasbc;scodr
Yraoann 10-a  -ottiamon it  a beld - Th. Yeu  oh.. atanot-y popu~laton                            pr_nde gI orrl ,c isnoa I or tether tranig                  --irur.on  tot puplk
etor has beet nonchod.                                                                          us-sly of 12 to 17 years of age; ccepneoscuasae grnere11Y
Pr-ao.tn- id-ylupouiocTpro-qurakilon..r -(100h lactaes)cf                                .      Oooa dlotaeollwatcl(per--octaec-dsry)-ocslona..  ositton
totl1 ura,190   Ol  n   30   os                                                                 include nectoicl, idsnil,ortte  pr gras  alhio   0 n   Lndepend-
Prysu. .t.oaRcltocelIlacd C                      b-Cnoodnho  fnr- nilurllsnd                      rntlycras..d--st      -un   otfcodelunnnuuo
ocly;iSAl  107  and1978 d-cn                                                            Pi-ech'rrai  -  rtur,od ye udr-fonal ateh_ts enrolled in
AooaicNas In 2ctue  reen) - Childreo  10-lu years )' -okint-sas  ill-                         prtw.p an  secondary len1i  diciddbnubraonecrsithe
64 y rurel, soe  etrd   (65  .ea.. oid over) as         . pteigee of  itd-Y..,  .P.-               --cteaptditgITas
Ilatto; 1960, 1900  ad 1979 Pus                                                                 Au1lt 1 inesrtas)arr-              ttctatedultw   a         oradadoie
tooautrsh I.a o.......I i      IAonu        g t-whr..... oftot-iwid-                       aesy .roen.a. ofnotl-a dulnpoplaton                     Yed yasadotr
yerpp futn   oo 1950-Sd, lSTIC  sd 190-0
'Poplatiot Growth tns(rpcnt -tbso - Ao a1 groth --ta  vi -rt- pOp,-                           CONSTMTITN
Latt.. for 191-T    790-7, and 1970-9                                                         P....rnaar Cars__(Ee nbhoo..ndrrito)-Fasgrcrsosie   no
Crude    tlOt I    ret~1   thousand)   -,,.tIa lice births per th..o.ad of  td-yearcot  ssarg a esca   ih   eroa                                ldsaboaos   ece   o
rooatc; 1050, 1971, tnd 1979 dna.                                                          all mp.....v-bidrlaw.
Crude leath Rtat  (per thousa.nd) -Anuld-ht  per thuads of wid-fortal tctnr  Cs nhouaod cuiatlol -All typee nfrcieafor  -ulo
population; 1960, 1970, end 1979 data,                                                          broad owen  no gaerIpublIc per nhou..and of pTpolerio; etoldes i-
yu  rtduction tate -Averge  tunbe  of daughter a. bI sn ill bea  in                         License d orceier .t Iotlee and .ir yara ohe. regot io   of radio
tility  rates; usuolly floe-fran  sosceara endin  in 1960, 1070, ad 1979.sa  conties abolished lynit
FasuloPlontlnu-toaotorw.dortlih,ou....ds) -    -naln ..wberofaoeptnrw                 TO Rsosin..a (loarth-uandooou.i.nol-T'   rect-rerIa f             lerdca..tIn
if bilbn-co ol d.nlcen under ...epilea of innio.a.  iaftily planting progron                    general public per ibousandpouain;snudswliesdfrciTr
hasllvFatly.- z. ass p.ren.fa...d..o)                          tereneg  ofoaryled                 iroottnadinysahanrttattfo                              etn
o _larird  _oeni  a    aegru                                                                  coltto  of''dlly genereLL - -nera opap-r", defined Fsspr dooca
p.blitOtiin devoted pr IarlyL no t..rdioggeerl  oe.   ,It in . cosierd
FWD ___N_______IT__N                                                                                en be "daily" if in appe.... an Leas  doo f    tisE`   e
Tndan cf Food Prod-c Ionl two tana(09 -7 100) - Tudat of par capita acul_iew                           1o a Attendanc  os  Catn raw tea-twee..d on tho nu.der of
,rodooclon of all food o-nedfinio.  F-du-too  -otlode seed an  feed and                         tick-n  sold during the Year  Itld n  ndti.is...otnodri--ici -ra
Iso  clnorya  basis.  Cot               on ote  prinay goode (eg.uer rad wabila  nie
ceo us _ocldedy.   gAREg...ce  -rd.cnio ofsa.chcc--nlyiLahbed on                        L,ABORFORCE
voitlsata    pr.odncr  p-ica-ights, 1961-65, 1970, and 1979 dab..                     Total Labor Foro(husoe   -Ecr...tcaliY noiepesn.oidn
Pe PptsscIn of rauts(rknnto   aviaris                  Conputed fooa                     ..n.  f...e  end ..veployedbtycldo  toosatrs  soes,et.
ort dsy.  Acolatespia   oole            doesi      .rdcin IJ"        yr  less.                nor.  np'ble  160, 1970 sod 1979ds
e...rn.. nod chagr  inutcA    -e,slina noc iudr nolsal feed, sasda,                        Fe.l (rerc-nt) ;-lPFsallabo  fotIsPrre                t  of t"tI laboc forc.
qonocls  ur  in food p_ootln, and loss.es   d,Rrtoco              . inolne-             A.locn   aret       ao  fot...             asr,  natY, hornIng and
-encusoyrrncisatd by PIO haw.od on pyInlgclI dsfo   oulac-fishing a  pte tae  fnos  labor time  1961, l                                              1977ad17   aa
city ad hhai  nonid eriTg .eniooctlteaperat-r, bdy    gh,atInuyd(ect)-Labor Inro  iy wining, torttru,t- Ion, saucurn
arendnnto'ib.ctoco of populocton  and a1loning 10 P_yor    for otel anad e!dleiniiY, aster sid tas.  as .p.rcwtnseof total labor core; 1960,
ho-wetld Itooll 1961-55, 1970, ond 1907 dots.                                                 107an  107  dta
co ,oply cI food proday,. Ie  woyplyci,lfoo  i   efnd     aooe.   s-ancytles recopte   a   ont,, -sie,adfsilbrfrsa
cotsnnfor ul l ocroe  saalise    yII   rnd   o   iiu                                     acra        of itoel  wl adraLe popoLeno oalatstseno  t
oiloo.n..oe  AC6 gruwiof t,.tol.poni  pe   sp       -d 0grnof s"i"a  1rd60h, 1070,  od 1979daa   Thes   r   ae-nIospritainwr
coo   yof,of eliob In loan   hb  Id hr u-teo   on-si-  fTherasand-                            efl-noTt    ago--se    ---ru.o t he pyceo ,,ad loot con  trend.
oulnol potect usan suengn for csocrld, pycyod hy Foc It the Octrd               Ronnc    rdnotnc              hni. of ppoenotuder 11 end Al and over
On-id Food  --tor; 0061-hf, 1000 nod 197  ao.n    h.c -on  1hbn To-o.
Pro _apcr croneiotooil  rnnla                 us      P-Ftain sccply of food de-
noted  roe anilnal  ond poises io grass per, dry; 1961-65, 1971 and 1977 data.           INO   DIOlTPItTIDN
Child     - latnjz)OfoM. i  tasIe   hco.od   A-1ualdeatb  pen ih....n  IT                       Feosiao I...   Fricai   tocn   hot  or c-t and hood) - R-oolor  by cocr
Iotcolc   or.ohlIdre1nioch9f6st9  ttoop;iontdeeo-toc'C r n ,nih...l 20 ron -                                          ,yoorn-i  0           pttttadtcreI40ttto
cro  do  daniod to   ieitr;15,17   od17   aa                                                 ofh.oosrhldu
OtAL.TO                                                                                         P-nry  TARGtT GROPIF
Life torsoconooy t- n  inran le ..    Average no. bhr  of Yeat  of ILIfraoitTeflctgeaiar   r   rospo  stonsur   cyonoro
at hitch; 100  17'nd10  daed eod ha oonerprrtred alchcc-idesiscuon
Rnfnt iotal py at   I lhouw..ndi -  -onuo  deo-hs of Illsn-sndrc urn ys-              totinathd AbsoIln  Foceri  lcw  t            (ol S$25 ocr caitl -ubnan)ua
it ag,epr    ....rad 110w bIrths.                                                               Ahslt   rsryicw    otIsta   coe  rrIhl, oi-                               nlu
uoo"sstSbfw Asto  (Forro  o f rorulaltvi cta,.cho. odtul-_ue
b:,   -%l, od l-               -bl.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~uiiiicaln   druordoo -uonrou  nc-tu.ocoutsrov
ouaproclaahat  i            -vlr-tdhbooahclrs,                . srnR,ona ioyul   etoa  tolatior po-ery intone1- ivltoe-titofovcar  ornp
cood nd hnbiv  ltn rrato-bi  a u          In n o  wha  house   l- P rurs     l-0t55ta -sto  F            otuatio   --yon b  Ilict  Puorto ow te--   ftren theon)
Irncn..   rcI.,.    ol   celytha -.hose-f IIt0 sesbec  of the..               b                                ....   . hoseol,adrya  F...noprs Io (ofbnn   rural) In-bo errtaacu
dovihc   cpn      Iyoocoxo   ato   l   a   otthn   h
aid "Itess h      y,"  tn-brn  synnedsa,p..   or the tee of o1t  f-ihissan  ahtni-P-  .. . on-b-   atd  bonlo  coc -lciuton
Popuelatio    peperPhsca- tbnpuiaco      ...dtide - b   nuby .... prcdlcnn. ccsu                                                                      fyI1
clans qu_oltIId drosa naica  schole  ovore     iosi.               --e-
toudto nr   oen   esn-Fooatndnddbbnee   tpatcn
ooitovdfenslauroduatnvotsss,  ccuolicalnuosea,anl sesiwnantoorses_,~P~1'1lt'oii,lo



- 22 -
ECONOMC INDICATORS                                                                           ARX I
ANINUAL RATE OF GROWTH
WK>3b NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                                                                                             "(S CURRIR  PRICES)
Us$ Million         S of MP                                                 1976-80
;GNP at M)rket Prices                                  1,109.0            103.9                                                   13.9
GDP at Market Prices                                  1,070.9             100.0                                                   13.7
Gross Domestic Invesntent                               265.7              24.8                                                   20.1
7-ans Domentic Saving                                    20.5               2.0
Current Account Balance                                -160.5             -15.0
Exports of Goods, NFS                                    319.0             29.8                                                   16.2
Imnorts of ':oods, N3                                  -564.3             -52.7                                                   16.2
OUTPBT,LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980                                         Value Added                               labor Force                       Value Added per Worker
ZL$MLIllion                     L         Thousand                       
Agriculture                                            413.5                      43.1          906                       55.7        456.4                         77.4
Industry, Construction
and Public Works                                     113.2                      11.3           52                        3.2      2,176.9                        369.2
Government                                             114.1                      11.9           72                        4.4      1,584.7                        268.7
Commerce and Transport                                 285.9                      29.8          597                       36.7        478.9                         81.2
Other Services                                           32.8                      3.4
GDP at Factor Cost                                  959.5                     100.0        1,62                       lO0,0        569.7                        lOO.0
GOVEZNRMET FINANCE
Central Goverrment
(CFAF Bl1ion)                   of GDP
MO                  1976.80
Revenue                                                 32.8              14.6                  15.5
Grants                                                  18.0               8.o                   8.4
Current Excendinures                                    26.3              11.7                  11.9
Investment Expendltures                                 29.2              13.0                  11.5
Net lending to State enterprise                         10.4               4.6                  15.8
Overall deficit (-!                                  -15.1             -6.7                   -3.8
External borrowiag                                      14.7               6.5                   5.0
MO-NEY, CREDIT ANO PFICES                               1976            1977          1978           1979           1980           19811/
(Billion CFAF Outstanding End Period)                         1
Money and Quasi Money                                   31.6           34.9          39.0           40.7            61.4           67.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            -2.3           -6.1          -4;9          -16.6          -15.2          -20.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                           32.1           37.6          45.1           63.5           S5.0           87.0
(Percentage or Index Number)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                       22.8           23.1          23.1           24.2           29.2             -
General Price Index (1974 a 100)                       122.4          132.6         145.6          160.4          177.9             -
Annual Percentage Change in:
Gieneral Price Index                                  0.3            9.S           6.0           10.2            a.4             -
Rank Credit to Pblic Sentnr                          20.7,        -165.2          19.1         -23C.0          -26.3             -
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        -0.1           17.1          19.9           40.8           33.8             -
. not available
1/ As of end September 1981.



- 23 .
ANNEX I
TADE. PAYNS AND CAPIUL 1Lm                                                                               Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                    36         11          I97                                                          EXPORTB (AVERGE l97_5.178BCODI)
1976        1977        1978        in                          I -       -                                                 - rL1
Exports of Goods, NFS                172.8       220.0       214.3       269.5        319.0            Cotton                                         8.0         26.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                308.6       364.3       394.3       468.6        564.3            Coco  Beano                                    3.5         11.4
Resource Sap (deficit . _)          -135.8      -144.3      -180.0      -199.1      -245.3  .          PaL  Products                                  2.2          7.2
All -Other C odities                          1  ,a        m  ;
TOTAL                                30.6         100.O
Interest Paynents (net)               -0.9        -0.9        -2.2        -2.8         -2.4
Workers  Remittances                 22.4         30.5        38.6        34.3         44.3
Other factors (net)                   1.0          0.5         1.3         1.9          0.9
Net transfers                        30.0
Balance on Correct Accounts         -83.3        -81.9      -117.1      -133.3       -160.5     .      ITMAL DEBT, DECDIBER 31, 1980
Direct Foreign Investment             1.4          4.8        ii.4        17.1         40.0
Net ItLT Borro,cing                  47.6         42.4        34.8        40.9         51.4                                                                US$ X1lltco
Capital Grsoto                        30.5        33.8        25.7        32.8         42.8
Other Capital (net)                 -11.4        -17.1         5.7        10.5          3.B            Public Debt (Disbursed),
Other Item, te.i.                     _-                       -           - _                            Including Guaranteed                               261.7
SODP                                               -                 -            -                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Errors and Omissions                 21.4         16.2        16.2        16.7         18.1            Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Overall Balance                       6.2         -0.9       -23.3       -12.8         -1.9
Use of Reserves                       -6.2         0.9        23.3        12.8          1.9
DEPT. SERVICE RATIO POR 1980 J/
Net Reserves (end year) 2/            20.1        20.1        14.1        13.8          8.6            DT EIR O R1.
Petroleum Inorts as I                                                                                  Public Debt (Disbursed)
of Total Imoorte                   6.o          5.1         4.7         5.3          5.5               Including Guaranteed Private Debt                    2.9
tflea-GUarsmtse4 Privakt..bnb
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
EXCIRIE RATES (CPFA PER US$)
Year           Period Average      End of Period                                                       7BRD/IDA LENDING, February 28S i982
IB2D      IDA
1976                239                248
1977                246                235                                                             autstanding  nd Disbursed                                  67 17
1978                226                209                                                             Undisbursed                                        --      67.17
1979                212                201                                                             Outstanding Including Undisbursed                   -     130.70
1980                210                226
1981                270                 268 4/
i/ Foreign assets of Central Bank
Estimates
;/ Preliminary estitatesof ratio of debt service to exoorts of goods and services
4/ AstofVEyIy    r 1981



-24-                                ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of February 28, 1982)
Credit
Number          Year   Borrower   Purpose                Amount 1/  Undisbursed
(US$ million)
Four Credits fully disbursed                             16.50
415-BEN         1973   Benin       Roads                 20.80 2/    2.67
583-BEN         1975   Benin       Rural Education        4.00        1.25
and training
717-BEN         1977   Benin       Feeder Roads           5.50       0.00 4/
746-BEN         1977   Benin       Third Highway         10.00       0.71
826-BEN         1978   Benin       Cotonou Port          19.30 3/    1.85
997-BEN         1980   Benin       Industrial            10.00       8.59
development
1090-BEN         1981   Benin       Feeder Roads           7.00        6.00
1127-BEN 5/      1981   Benin       Borgou Province       20.00      20.00
Rural Development
1142-BEN 6/      1981   Benin       Fourth Highway        11.30       11.30
1171-BEN 6/      1981   Benin       Cotonou Water          5.00        5.00
Sanitation
1189-BEN 6/      1981   Benin       Power Eng. & TA        1.80        1.80
1207-BENb/       1982   Benin       Technical Assistance 8.00         8.00
in Petroleum Sector
TOTAL                                  139.20       67.17
of which has been repaid               8.50
TOTAL now outstanding                  130.70
TOTAL now held by IDA                  130.70
TOTAL undisbursed                        67.17
1/ Prior to Exchange Adjustment
2/ Including a Supplementary Credit of US$9 million. This Credit was
closed on March 31, 1982.
3/ Including US$8.3 million participation of the Government of Norway
(fully disbursed) and repaid.
4/ Only $1,188.13 remain undisbursed.
5/ Became effective on March 25, 1982.
6/ Not effective yet. Credit No. 1142 was signed on July 16, 1981,
Credit No. 1171 on October 26, 1981, Credit No. 1189 on January 4,
1982, and Credit No. 1207 on February 19, 1982.



- 25 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 583-BEN   Rural Education and Training Project; US$4.0 million
credit of June 19, 1975; Effective Date: October 21,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This credit provides for (i) construction and supply of training
materials for a Skills Upgrading Center in Cotonou; (ii) construction,
equipment and technical assistance to improve the ongoing rural youth training
program; and (iii) preparation of a second education project. The construction
of the National Support Center (CNAC), and of the Regional Support Centers for
the rural training component of the project and of the Skills Upgrading Center
(CPPE) have been completed. Personnel have been appointed to the CNAC.
Equipment has been selected and issued to the youth clubs. Training for
extension staff and group leaders has begun. Implementation of the rural
water supply component jointly financed with UNICEF, commenced in July 1980,
is expected to take two years to complete.
Credit No. 746-BEN   Third Highway Project US$10.0 million credit of
November 18, 1977; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This project is designed to facilitate access to the Port of Cotonou
by providing for the rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the country's main
north-south highway; it also aims at expanding the highway maintenance program
begun under the two previous highway projects; including the elimination of
some of the backlog of bituminous and laterite roads resurfacing. Project
execution is proceeding satisfactorily although delays in starting the bitumen
roads resealing program have resulted in further deterioration of about 54 km
of roads which now require full reconstruction. Reconstruction of the bitumen
roads is provided for under the Fourth Highway project.
Credit No. 826-BEN   Cotonou Port Project; US$11.0 million credit of June 8,
1978, Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December. 31, 1982.
This project provides for the extension of the existing general
cargo port facilities involving dredging of a new basin, construction of 660 m
berths with transit sheds, hardstandings, roadway, and railway services; the
construction of a new cut-off breakwater and entrance channel dredging;
technical assistance for all port operations including railway and a study
of coastal erosion problems. Eight co-financiers including IDA had originally
agreed to participate in the project and to provide about US$44.0 million of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems and
actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read with the under-
standing that they do not present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -                             ANNEX II
Page 3
external financing. A US$3.0 million EEC Special Action Credit was approved
on November 9, 1979 to close the financing gap created by the withdrawal of
one of the co-financiers. Civil works are proceeding satisfactorily. Project
costs have increased by about $9.0 million, primarily because of a design
change necessitated by an apparent shortfall in the volumes and sizes of rocks
expected to be obtained from an old breakwater to be demolished for the
construction of a new one. Additional financing to ensure project completion
has been obtained from the OPEC Fund and the BADEA.
Credit No. 997-BEN   Industrial Development Project; US$10.0 million credit
of March 20, 1980; Effective Date: August 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project provides needed term resources to the Banque Beninoise
pour le Developpement (BBD) for financing small- and medium-scale investments
in the industrial sector and technical assistance to help build up BBD's
capacity to identify, promote and assist industrial projects.
Credit No. 1090-BEN Second Feeder Roads Project; SDR 5.5 million credit of
December 23, 1980; Effective Date:  December 11, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This project would finance the construction by force-account of
about 700 km of feeder roads, maintenance and improvement of another 1,200 km,
providing technical assistance to the Feeder Roads Division (Ministry of
Public Works) for carrying out civil works, project monitoring, staff training
and preparation of future feeder roads programs.
Credit No. 1127-BEN Borgou Province Rural Development Project; SDR 15.7
million credit of April 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
March 23, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This project provides for expanding agricultural production (food-
crops and cotton) in the Borgou Province through the strengthening and support
of institutions and of technical infrastructure, integrated with improved
extension, cooperatives, training and social services.
Credit No. 1142-BEN Fourth Highway Project; SDR 9.3 million credit of May 14,
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project provides for the rehabilitation of about 500 km of
gravel roads, the reconstruction or resealing of about 84 km of paved roads,
and the improvement in the efficiency of routine and periodic maintenance.
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 1171-BEN Cotonou Water/Sanitation Engineering Project;
SDR 4.1 million credit of June 25, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
This project initiates Bank Group operations in the water supply
and sanitation sector. It provides for studies on the preparation of master
plans for water supply, sanitation, and urban development; the review of
existing tariff and accounting systems with recommendations for improvement; a
training program for staff of the Agency for Power and Water Supply (SBEE);
and detailed design and bidding documents for a first stage construction
program to be carried out under a possible future project. This Credit is not
yet effective.
Credit No. 1189-BEN Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
SDR 1.7 million Credit of November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This project, a joint undertaking involving Togo and Benin, would
aim at helping the two Governments complete preparations for the Nangbeto
Hydroelectric project, assist in improving planning in the power sectors of
both countries, provide assistance in institution-building, and strengthen
accounting procedures. The credit has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 1207-BEN Technical Assistance to the Petroleum Sector Project;
SDR 7.0 million Credit of February 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This project would assist the government in training Beninese
personnel in oil field operations and petroleum exploration, promoting off-
shore exploration by foreign oil companies, and laying the basis for the
second-phase development of the Seme oil field. This credit has not yet been
declared effective.



- 28 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first presented to IDA:  October 1979
(b) Time taken to prepare the project: 20 months
(c)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  May 1981
(d)  Completion of negotiations:         February 19, 1982
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:   Sept. 30, 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
In October 1980, an advance of US$400,000 under the Project Preparation
Facility was granted to the government to start up project preparation. A
Second PPF advance of US$600,000 was approved on February 26, 1982.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of effectiveness
Firstly, the Association shall be notified by the Swiss Agency for
Development Cooperation that any conditions precedent to the first disburse-
nent under the Swiss grant, except for the effectiveness of the IDA Agreement,
have been fulfilled (para. 53), and secondly by the GTZ that the Grant Agree-
ment between Germany and Benin has been executed, and thirdly that the techni-
cal assistance specialists for project management must have taken up their
positions.
2. Conditions of disbursement
A condition of disbursement of the proposed credit for the construc-
tion of any ENI would be that government provide adequate access and utility
services to the site of that ENI (para. 57).
3. Other Conditions
Government will:
(a) take all measures by June 30, 1987 to upgrade and expand the upper
secondary agricultural school in Sekou and establish three new lower
secondary agricultural schools (para. 45);
(b) transfer to the ENI's as they become operational staff, facilities
and students from the six existing teacher training colleges, and
then, close any other college for training primary and lower secon-
dary school teachers (para. 46);



- 29 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) submit to IDA before December 31, 1983, a detailed plan for
providing adequate budget and staff for the operation and main-
tenance of all project-financed construction (para. 46);
(d) establish by July 1, 1982 a project working fund and replenish it
on a quarterly basis (para. 56); and
(e) submit to IDA before December 31, 1986, an evaluation of the text-
book component, carried out in accordance with a research design
sastisfactory to IDA (para. 48).






iBRD 15373
Z14  k  J                                                                                                             'UNE 1*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE1$
LZ4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CY,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
%IQ JWN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--A----  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7i~ ~ ~~~~~~



