CAEDIT NUMBER 1246 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Education Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1246 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              -               ,1982, between
the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BE N (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to thiL Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower expects to receive from Switzerland a
noa-reimbursable contribution (hereinafter called the Swiss
Contribution) in an amox,nt of seven million Swiss Francs (approxi-
mately equivalent to three million five hundred thousand dollars
($3,500,000)), to assist in financing Parts A and C of the Proj-
ect, on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (here-
inafter called the Swiss-Beninese Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and Switzerland;
(C) Switzerland intends to appoint the Association as
Administrator of the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and a letter of understanding to be
entered into between the Association and Switzerland;
(D) the Borrower expects to receive from the Deutsche
Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit (tereinafter called
GTZ), an agency for technical cooperation of the Federal Republic
of Germany, a grant (hereinafter called the GTZ Grant), in an
amount approximately equivalent to four million seven hundred and
ten thousand dollars ($4,710,000)) to assist in financing Part B
of the Project, on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the GTZ Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Federal Republic of Germany; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ENI" means Ecole Normale Int6gr6e, a college at
which primary and lower secondary school teachers are to be
trained;
(b) "INFRE" means the Institut National de la Formation et
dc la Recherche en Education, the Borrower's national institute of
education responsible for curriculum development, teacher educa-
tion and the production and distribution of educational materials;
(c) "MEMGTP" means the Ministere des Enseignements Moyen
G6n6ral, Technique et Professionnel, the Borrower's ministry
responsible for general secondary, technical and vocational
education;
(d) "Swiss Account" means the account to be established
for the Swiss Contribution;
(e) "Project Unit" means the unit establisned withii MEMGTP
to supervise and coordinate all activities under the Projec+;
(f) "Project Preparation Advances" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 1, 1980
and October 9, 1980, and a further exchange of letters dated
May 5, 1982 and May 14, 1982 between the Borrower and the
Association; and


﻿-3-
(g) "CFA Franc" and the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de la
CommunautS Financi&re Africaine, the common currency of the
Borrower and the other members of the West African Monetary
Union.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III hereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(u) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1992, and ending April 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Swiss Contribution
Section 3.01. The amount of the Credit and the amount of the
Swiss Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
the Swiss Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation may be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agree-
ment between the Borrower, Switzerland and the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account and from the Swiss Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Association and Switzerland shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of tha reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the total
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or of the Swiss Contribution, the Bor-
rower shall deliver to the Association a written application in
such form and containing such statements and agreements as the
Association or Switzerland shall reasonably request. Applications
for withdrawal, with the necessary documentation as hereinafter
provided shall, except as the Borrower, Switzerland and the
Association shall otherwise agree, be made promptly in relation to
expenditures for the Project.
(b) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy
Switzerland and the Association that the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss Account the amount
applied for and that such amount is to be used only for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from both the Credit Account and the Swiss Account, and the
funds to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be
apportioned by the Association, as nearly as practicable in the
circumstances, between the Credit and the Swiss Contribution in
the ratio of 80:20, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between
Switzerland and the Association.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account to or
on the order of the Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement;
and
(ii) promptly notify Switzerland that it has received
such application for withdrawal from the Swiss
Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved the payment of
the portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in the amount set forth in such
notice, and that the portion to be withdrawn from
the Swiss Account in the amount set forth in such
notice is eligible for payment by Switzerland, and
instruct Switzerland to make such payment.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or
of the Swiss Contribution shall have been fully withdrawn or
cancelled, applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals
shall be deemed to be requested for withdrawal of the full amount
applied for from the Credit Account or the Swiss Account only,
as the case may be, and the provisions of this Article III, except
for Section 3.04 hereof shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis
until the full amount credited to such remaining Account shall
have been withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such terms
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may, on behalf and for the account of Switzerland,
enter into special commitments to pay amounts out of the proceeds
of the Swiss Contribution in respect of the cost of goods required
by the Project, subject to the provisions of this Agreem.ent
concerning the allocation and apportionment of the proceeds of the
Swiss Contribution. Switzerland has agreed with the Association
that any such special commitment shall, once it has been notified
to Switzerland, constitute an obligation on the part of Switzer-
land to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or can-
cellation of the Swiss Contribution, the amount to be disbursed
out of the Swiss Account in fulfillment of such special commit-
ment.
Section 3.08. Except as Switzerland and the Association
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit or the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the
provision of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its MEMGTP, together with the assistance of other
ministries as appropriate, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate educational, administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall establish


﻿-7 -
at a bank acceptable to the Association by July 1, 1982, a re-
volving fund of five million C'A Francs (CFA 5,000,000) to
pre-finance the operating costs of the Project Unit and to finance
part of the Borrower's local cost contribution to the Project, and
shall replenish such fund as and when required to ensure that on
the first day of each calendar quarter the aforementioned amount
is credited to the fund.
(c) The Borro.er shall cause the Project Unit to exercise
overall management and coordination in the carrying out of the
Project with such responsibilities, powers, services and facili-
ties as are specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall employ at all times during the
execution of the Project the personnel identified in paragraph 2
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(e) For the efficient operation of the Project Unit, the
Borrower shall employ or continue to employ consultants and
specialists as specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; the
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of said consultants and specialists shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derivefA and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower Rnd the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(e) Without limitation on or restriction to its other
obligations under this Section, the Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1986, furnish to the Association a study of Part B
of the Project carried out in accordance with a research design
satisfactory to the Association and shall exchange views with the
Association on the findings, conclusions and recommendations
resulting from said study.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to ensure that all land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project shall
continue to be available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 4.05. Prior to commencing construction of any one of
the ENIs referred to in Part A of the Project the Borrower shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Association that an adequate
number of residences for ENI administrative and teaching staff are
available near to the site on which the ENI concerned is to be
constructed.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that fellowships
under Parts A (3), C (1) (d) and B (4) of the Project are awarded
to suitably qualified candidates;
(b) furnish to the Association for its review and approval
detpls of the training programs (and their costs) to be followed
by said candidates; and
(c)  receive the guarantees necessary to ensure that all
recipients of fellowships under the Project take up employment in
positions consistent with their training for a minimum period of
two years after completion of said training.
Section 4.07. (a) As soon as construction of each ENI
referred to under Part A (1) of the Project has been substantially
completed the Borrower shall transfer from existing programs for
training primary and lower secondary teachers sufficient staff,
equipment and students to the ENI concerned and shall ensure that
thereafter said ENI operates at full capacity.
(b) As soon as the ENIs referred to under Part A (1) of the
Project are operational the Borrower shall discontinue the train-
ing of primary school teachers at the six temporary primary
teacher training colleges.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall:   (a) take all steps neces-
sary to substantially carry out, not later than June 30, 1987, its
program for increasing the enrollment and for the upgrading of the
upper secondary agricultural school in Sekou and for the develop-
ment of three new lower secondary agricultural schools in order to
ensure that a sufficient number of qualified students will be
available for the agricultural teacher training programs; and (b)
shall exchange views from time to time with the Association on the
progress being made in the implementation of such program.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1982, or such later date as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, furnish to the Association for its approval, the


﻿- 10 -
documents establishing a separate printing unit within MEMGTP
for purposes of textbook production and distribution; said docu-
ments shall include the operational rules for said unit.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof (hereinafter called
the Project Accounts).
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained as pert of the Project
Accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, sub-
accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account or the Swiss Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure; (ii) retain or cause to
be retained, until one year after the Closing Date, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures for the Project on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account or the Swiss
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) for each fiscal year have an
audit carried out on the Project Accounts and the sub-accounts
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section respec-
tively, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Assoziation; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account or the Swiss Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were


﻿- 11 -
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning the Project Accounts, sub-accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the buildings
constructed for purposes of the Project to be operated in
accordance with the objectives of said Project and shall provide
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources as well as qualified teachers
and administrators in adequate numbers required for the effective
utilization, staffing and operation of such institutions.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the buildings and equipment of
the buildings constructed for purposes of the Project to be
adequately maintained and cause all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof to be made promptly as required, all in accordance with
appropriate technical, administrative and economic practices, and
shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for this
purpose.
(c) Without limitation to or restriction on its obligations
under paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall, not later
than December 31, 1983, furnish to the Association for its review
and comments a plan setting out in detail its proposals for ensur-
ing that: (i) adequate funds will be allocated annually for the
operation and maintenance of the facilities constructed under
the Project; and (ii) personnel are readily available in adequate
numbers to carry out the operation and maintenance required for
such facilities pursuant to said plan.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant, contribution or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in


﻿- 12 -
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Gonditions:
(a) the Swiss-Beninese Agreement and the letter of under-
standing referred to in paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this
Agreement have been executed and delivered and such execution
and delivery have been duly nothorized and ratified by the com-
petent authorities of the Borrower and the other conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of said Agreement, subject only to
the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) the GTZ Grant Agreement between the Borrower and the
Federal Republic of Germany has been duly executed by and
delivered to the appropriate authorities; and
(c) the assistant to the Project Director, the coordinator
of works, the maintenance specialist and the independent auditor,
included amongst the specialists referred to in Section 4.01 (e),
have taken up their positions.


﻿- 13 -
Section 7.02. The date 03Qt\)                  M   is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of tfe General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article V of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        5009 or
Cotonou                             5289
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contri-
bution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the
Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount of the      Swiss Contri-
Credit Allocated   bution Allocated % of Expen-
(Expressed in      (Expressed in   ditures to
Category      SDR Equivalent)     Swiss Francs)  be Financed
(1) Civil works        5,580,000        3,200,000     50%
(2) Furniture          1,540,000         880,000      80%
and equipment
(3) Professional         490,000         280,000      80%
fees for local
specialists
(4) Consul-            1,400,000          800,000     100%
tants' and
specialists'
services
(5) Fellowships          350,000          200,000     100%
(6) Operating            110,000           60,000     80%
costs
(7) Refunding            890,000                      Amount due
of Project
Preparation
Advances
(8) Unallocated       1,840,000        1,580,000
TOTAL      12,200,000        7,000,000
I__________


﻿- 16                                             q
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and of Switzerland that
no proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss Contribution shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Swiss Contribution decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such item as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association and
Switzerland.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
May 13, 1982; and
(b) payments made for such expenditures under Category
(1) above with respect to any one of the three ENIs to be
constructed under the Project unless with respect to the ENI for
which the withdrawal application is made the Borrower has made
adequate arrangements to ensure road access and water and electri-
city connections to the site on which the ENI concerned is
to be constructed.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or of the Swiss Contribution or the disbursement percentages set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or of the Swiss
Contribution then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or of the Swiss
Contribution which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association, are not needed to meet
other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 17 -
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or of the Swiss Contribution and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement or of Switzerland under the Swiss-Beninese Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and
of the Swiss Contribution as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit or of the Swiss Contribution.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality
of primary and lower secondary education and establish a sound
basis for its expansion, in particular, in rural areas.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Primary and Lower Secondary Education
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of three colleges
(ENIs) with an annual output of about 675 primary school teachers
and about 260 lower secondary school teachers; these colleges will
be located in Lokossa, Parakou and Natitingou.
(2) Development of training programs to be followed by
students at the ENIs with a focus on general subjects at the
primary level and general and vocational subjects at the lower
secondary level.
(3) About 14 fellowships equivalent to about 168 man-months
to train Beninese staff to operate and maintain the ENIs.
Part B:   Textbook Production and Distribution
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a print shop
in Porto Novo.
(2) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a central
warehouse located next to the print shop to be constructed under
Part B (1) of the Project and six regional warehouses at loca-
tions acceptable to the Association.
(3) Establishment and initial operation of a program for
printing and distributing approximately 470,000 textbooks and
teaching guides per annum.
(4) About 3 overseas fellowships equivalent to 85 man-months
for print shop personnel.
Part C:   Project Management, Evaluation and Planning
(1) Strengthening of the Project Unit: (a) improvement of
its management, procurement and accounting procedures; (b) provi-
sion of complementary furniture and equipment; (c) financial


﻿- 19 -
assistance in its initial operations; and (d) about 5 fellow-
ships equivalent to 60 man-months to train personnel in matters
related to Project management.
(2) Establishment of a project monitoring system and the
evaluation of Project activities.
(3) Planning and preparation of proposed projects in the
educational sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977   (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   To the extent practical, items of furniture and equipment
shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement in accordance
with appropriate technical and procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Benin may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Benin if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Benin equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 22 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which, as result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of -wnership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into packages
costing at least $50,000 equivalent or which are not suitable for
international competitive bidding may be procured in accordance


﻿- 23 -
with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Associat'on, subject, however, to paragraph D.3 of this Schedule.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $20,000
equivalent which are available from a limited number of suppliers
may be procured by inviting quotations from at least three reli-
able suppliers, subject, however, to paragraph D.3 of this
Schedule.
3.   The aggregate cost of contracts awarded pursuant to paragraph
D.1 and D.2 of this Schedule shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 24 -
(d) Two signed or conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two signed or conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recoumendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
(Section 4.01 (c) and (d) of the
Development Credit Agreement)
1.   The Project Unit shall be headed by a full-time Project
Director acceptable to the Association who shall be responsible to
the Minister of MEMGTP.
2.   The Project Unit shall include, in addition to the Project
Director:
(a) a full-time accountant;
(b) a deputy director responsible for programming and
budgeting; and
(c) a deputy director responsible for technical services
under the Project.
3.   The Project Unit shall have the necessary powers for the
execution of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a) coordinating of all Project activities with the assist-
ance of INFRE and of the appropriate ministries;
(b) preparing for submission through proper channels of
applications for withdrawals from the Credit Account
and the Swiss Account;
(c) preparing and maintaining accounts for the Project
and preparing statements of expenditur, for withdrawals
under Category (6) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d) ensuring that quarterly project expenditure estimates
are prepared for timely replenishment of the revolving
fund provided for in Section 4.01 (b);
(e) ensuring that quarterly progress reports relative to
the Project are prepared and sent to the Association;
(f) ensuring that all evaluation reports and financial
reports provided for in this Agreement are regularly
prepared;


﻿- 26 -
(g) ensuring that construction work under the Project is
carried out substantially in conformity with the archi-
tectural designs approved by the Association; and
(h) ensuring that the furniture and equipment procured
under the Project is substantially in conformity with
detailed lists and specifications approved by the
Association.
4.   The staff of the Project Unit shall cooperate fully with the
specialists identified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Consultants' and Specialists' Services
(Section 4.01 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement)
Part A:   Specialists to prepare equipment and furniture lists and
specialists to train the teachers at the three ENIs
(about 46 staff-months).
Maintenance specialists to prepare, in conjunction with
architectural consultants and MEMGTP staff, a plan for
the maintenance of the ENI buildings and equipment
(about 6 staff-months).
Part B:   Specialists to provide on-the-job training of local
personnel employed at the print shop and to assist
INFRE in curriculum development and textbook editing
(about 166 staff-months).
Part C:   Specialists in project management and in the coordina-
tion of the architectural program and civil works (about
150 staff-months).
Accountants who will:
(i) assist in establishing a Project accounting
system;
(ii) provide periodic on-the-job training to Project
Unit staff; and
(iii) carry out annual audits (about 12 staff-months).
Architectural and education specialists to assist the
Borrower in carrying out Part C (3) of the Project
(about 12 staff-months).
Evaluation specialist(s) who will be primarily responsible
for assisting MEMGTP in establishing systems for data collec-
tion, analyses and related reports and who will also assist
in evaluating Part B of the Project and in preparing the
Project completion report.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original ini the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    2k.     day of 51)X
198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


