Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23932-MOG
PRtOJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
,GOVERNMENT OF MONGOLIA
FOR A
FINANCIAL CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Mongolian Tugriks (MNT)
1.00 Tugrik = US$0.0009
USS1.00 = 1104Tugriks
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AgBank        Agricultural Bank of Mongolia
BR-Bonds      Bank Restructunng Bonds
BOM           Bank of Mongolia
CAEL          Capital, Assets, Equity and Liabilities
CAMEL         Capital, Assets, Management, Equity and Liabilities
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA          Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIB           Credit Information Bureau
EFT           Electronic Funds Transfer
FCDP          Financial Capacity Development Project
FMRs          Financial Monitonng Reports
FSAC          Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Mongolia)
FSPL          Financial Sector Program Loan (ADB)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GoM           Govenmment of Mongolia
LAS           Intemational Accounting Standards
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IFIs          Intemational Financial Institutions
PRSC          Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
JICA          International Cooperation Agency (Japan)
MARA          Mongolia Assets Recovery Agency
MOFE          Ministry of Finance and Economy
NBFIs         Non-Bank Financial institutions
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NPLs          Nonperforming Loans
PCO           Project Coordination Office
PHRD          Policy and Human Resource Development (Japan)
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PIU           Project Implementation Urnits
PRGF          Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (RMF)
PSC           Project Steering Committee
R.FMA         Regional Financial Management Advisor
RTGS          Real Time Gross Settlement
SBD           Standard Bidding Document
SDMCD         Sector Development Management and Coordination Department (MOFE)
SFPL          Second Financial Program Loan (ADB)
SIDA          Swedish Intemational Development Authority
SME           Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
TDB           Trade and Development Bank
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
USAID         United States Agency for international Development
WBOM          World Bank Office in Mongolia
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager/Director   Homi Kharas
Task Team Leader/Task Manager.    Xiaofeng Hua



MONGOLIA
FINANCIALL CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     13
3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          19
2. Financial                                                                          19
3. Technical                                                                         20
4. Institutional                                                                     20
5. Environmental                                                                     22
6. Social                                                                            22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                23



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    24
2. Critical risks                                                                    24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    26
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           26
2. Other                                                                             26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Sunmmary (not applicable)                                43
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      48
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    57
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  58
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 59
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           60
MAP(S)



MONGOLIA
FEinancial Capacity Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASFS
Date: May 14, 2002                                Team Leader: Xiaofeng Hua
Country Director: Ian C. Porter                   Sector Director: Homi Kharas
Project ID: P071023                               Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
ProJ_ectFnanc1ng Data
[ ] Loan     pq Credit    [ Grant      [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Maximum 0.50%                    Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source $Local                                   Foreign  _      Total
BORROWER                                                       0.50           0.00          0.50
IDA                                                            0.00           5.00          5.00
Total:                                                         0.50           5.00          5.50
Borrower: MONGOLIA
Responsible agency: MOFE, BOM, PARTICIPATING BANKS
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Address: Government Bldg-2, Negdsen Undestnii St. 5/1, Ulaanbaatar-210646, Mongolia
Contact Person: Mr. Bayasgalan, Director, Sector Development Management and Coordination Dept.
Tel: (976-11) 32-1912          Fax: (976-11) 32-0247           Email: bayasgalan(@mof.pmis.gov.mn
Other Agency(ies):
Bank of Mongolia
Address: Baga toiruu-9, Ulaanbaatar-46 Mongolia
Contact Person: Mr. B. Lkhagvasuren, Director, Accounting and Information Technology Dept.
Tel: (976-11) 324340           Fac: (976-11) 31-1471           Email: llchagavasurengmonglebank.nm
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY  2003   2004       2005      2006
Annual      0.43      3.55       0.65       0.37
Cumulative     0.43       3.98      4.63       5.00
Project implementation period: 3.5
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2002  Expected closing date:  03/31/2006
OM PAD FO,, WW, 2. 



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project is to support institutional capacity building of the Mongolian banking sector to reduce
systemic risks and enhance financial intermediation through (i) improved commercial bank risk
management; (ii) modernization of payments systems and instruments; and (iii) controlled process
of Savings Bank resolution.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Sector Indicators:
*   Sound macroeconomic framework as represented by the indicators agreed under the Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC), including general government finances as a percent of
GDP, credit to nonfinancial state enterprises as a percent of GDP, net domestic credit and net
international reserves.
* Implementation of the Action Plan for Financial Sector Strengthening adopted under FSAC in
the areas of corporate governance, legal and regulatory framework, commercial banking risk
management, and non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs).
* Availability of a comprehensive set of cost-effective payments systems that satisfies the needs
of all economic sectors.
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
*   New risk management framework established and implemented in participating banks.
* Improved financial position and performance of participating banks.
* Safe and efficient online transactions between end-users and their banks.
* Information technology used in a cost-effective manner to support compliance with best
international practice and realization of the sought after benefits of the payments system and
other related information systems.
* Overload of the existing BOM payments system alleviated.
* Timely preparation and implementation of a resolution plan for Savings Bank satisfactory to
IDA.
Output Indicators:
(i) Commercial bank risk management:
* Risk-based lending policies and procedures to be developed and issued within six months after
Credit effectiveness.
* Ratio of nonperforming loans (NPLs) to Total Loans of participating banks not to exceed 10
percent throughout project implementation period.
* Credit/portfolio risk function reorganized within six months after Credit effectiveness.
* All credit officers of participating banks to have completed at least one training course in
Mongolia within the first 12 months after Credit effectiveness.
- 2 -



(ii) Payments system modernization:
* Decision to be taken by the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) within 12 months after Credit
effectiveness regarding the threshold value of transactions to be processed in the existing
BOM system.
* An electronic transactions legislation to be adopted not later than 18 months after (Credit
effectiveness.
*   Value of commercial and government transactions processed through the new payments
system to increase by at least 20 percent per annum, respectively, after the system becomes
operational. Alleviated overload of the existing BOM payments system.
(iii) Savings Bank resolution:
*   A time-bound resolution plan for Savings Bank to be submitted to the Association for its
review and comment within four months after Credit effectiveness.
* Implementation of the resolution plan to be initiated within six months after Credit
effectiveness.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA-R98-38Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1998
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (17604-MOG) supports the Government of Mongolia in
completing the economic transition, improving living standards and reducing poverty through
capacity building in the areas (if macroeconomic management, private sector development,
infrastructure and equality in development. The project is to assist the Government to achieve
medium-term macroeconomic stability and private sector development through institutional
capacity building in the priority areas of Mongolia's banking sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Introduction. Mongolia started a peaceful transition to democracy in the early 1990s following
the collapse of the Soviet bloc Since then, the Government of Mongolia (GoM) has adopted a
policy stance that encourages economic liberalization. Today Mongolia's economic landscape is
quite different from the Soviet model of the past. With donor support, Mongolia has established
the basic legal framework for a commercial banking system (see Annex 8: Documents in Project
File, Mongolia Banking System: Major Regulatory Changes). However, the pace of reforns has
been uneven, and the economy remains vulnerable to external shocks.
Sector structure. The financial system is still evolving to support the development of a
market-based economy. Total financial sector assets are about US$302 million, as compared to a
GDP of over US$1 billion. Gross loans account for 41 percent of total assets. Loans to
Government (excluding Bank Restructuring Bonds) account for half of a percent of total assets,
and are 11 percent if the Bank Restructuring Bonds (BR-Bonds) are included. Loans to public
sector are 3 percent of the total assets. Loans to private sector has increased to 38 percent of
total assets. Fixed assets are 6 percent of the total assets. There are 15 commrercial banks, but
many of them are start-ups (See Annex 8: Documents in the Project File: Mongolia Financial
Sector Market Review). Of the four large banks, the state-owned Trade and Development Bank
- 3 -



(TDB) is the largest, accounting for about 34 percent of total assets. Golomt Bank is the largest
private bank, accounting for 14 percent of total assets. The assets of the state-owned Savings
Bank amount to 14 percent of total assets, but are largely composed of non-tradable government
bonds. The Agricultural Bank has the most extensive branch network, and is currently under a
management contract arrangement between the Ministry of Finance and Economy (the owner's
representative) and the Bank of Mongolia (the receiver), and a foreign consulting firm. NBFIs are
at an early stage of development. The stock market is small and illiquid, and insurance and leasing
businesses are embryonic.
Main issues. Despite the initiatives to strengthen and liberalize the financial system, the banking
sector has experienced recurring crises and failures, most notably in 1994, 1996 and 1998/99.
While the sector appeared to recover substantially after the crises, these recoveries turned out to
be transitory. The 1999 Financial Sector Review and the 2000 Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit (FSAC) identify among the policy distortions and structural weaknesses the following
issues during this turbulent period:
Eroded public confidence in the financial system and low level of monetization. The deposit
base of the banking sector was small, accounting for 15% of GDP. The basic measures of
financial depth were quite low: the ratio of M2 to GDP is 25%, while the ratio of claims on
nongovernment sector to GDP was only 7 percent. Of the total net banking assets, 19 percent
were non-negotiable BR-Bonds. On the one hand, the economy was over banked (12-14 banks
for a population of 2.6 million), leading to losses and inefficiency. On the other, a large portion of
transactions between enterprises were in the form of barter trade, and households operated on a
cash economy parallel to the formal financial system.
Crowding out ofprivate sector development. The real interest rates in Mongolia remained at an
unsustainable levels: for local currency, the average lending rate in 1999-2000 was 28 percent,
and the average deposit rate, 18 percent; for US dollar loans and deposits, the average rates were
23 percent and 4 percent. A number of factors contributed to the problem: high expectations of
currency devaluation, excess government demand for credit, and huge explicit and implicit NPLs.
Total credit to private sector accounted for only 4 percent of GDP.
High Nonperforming loans. Reported NPLs stood at 19 percent of total loans. Most of the
NPLs were incurred due to poor credit risk management. While the official NPLs number
appeared to be quite stable, there were incidences of "hidden" NPLs due to liberal assets
classification practices and accounting entries. All loans in Mongolia were collateralized, but
banks found it difficult to verify the legality and value of the collateral. When a borrower
defaulted, it was difficult for the creditor to repossess and liquidate the asset.
Slow assets recovery. Of the US$35 million impaired assets taken over by the Mongolia Assets
Recovery Agency (MARA) in 1997, only about 14% were recovered by 2000. In 2001 another
US$10 million liquidated assets were transferred to MARA from the closed ITI Bank and
Reconstruction Bank. It was estimated that most of those assets have little residual value if
marked to market.
-4 -



Weakfinancial sector infrastructure. Underlining the above issues is the weak infrastructure of
the banking system.
* Banking laws and regulations are often copied from different legal systems (e.g. a continental
law civil code and a common law securities law). Although similar in words to the laws and
regulations in effect in the developed economies, the synergy, conflicts and applicability of
those instruments are not clearly understood. There are loopholes regarding the relationship
between lenders and borrowers and private property right transfers. Until recently banks did
not have the power to adopt readily enforceable default conditions and remedies. The
knowledge of laws of ban]cers and borrowers is limited. Law administration and enforcement
are weak.
* The accounting practices are yet to comply with the International Accounting Standards
(IAS). While Mongolia adopted the IAS in a law about nine years ago, training in IAS are
seriously lagging behind. While the new amendments to the Accounting Law effective April
2002 require all business entities to maintain their accounts on the accrual basis, it will take
time for many enterprises to switch from the cash-based accounting. There is evidence that
interim bank accounts are not in compliance with LAS, and therefore may not be of much use
as a basis for good management decisions. Banking decisions are based on personal
references and physical evidence as financial statements are either unavailable or unreliable. In
cases where financial statements are provided, they are prepared for tax purposes, and
therefore do not provide sulfficient information for credit analysis.
* Prudential regulations and supervision need to be further strengthened. Although BOM has
come a long way to bring the prudential regulations and supervision closer to the B3asel Core
Principles, there are discrepancies in off-site reporting requirements, CAMEL and CAEL
rating systems, and on-site examination procedures. Licensing of new banks tends to rely
heavily on minimum capital requirement, without thorough review of the suitability of senior
management and board directors, and the quality of business plan including market analysis
and financial projections. The regulatory framework and supervision of NBFIs are weak.
* Corporate governance and internal control are very weak. Bank boards are yet to become
effective governors of the institutions. Their role and accountability are not clearly
understood. Personal liability of bank board members and senior managers for gross
negligence is either missing in laws or not enforced. Intemal control is equated to internal
audit. There is a lack of control environment and senior bank management commitment is
weak. The internal control offices in banks are not independent of the management and do
not have the mandate and skills to monitor bank-wide risks.
* Human resource development policies do not support a culture of accountability and
responsibility. There are few measurement techniques to evaluate performance. As good
performers are not sufficiently rewarded, poor performers have no worry of being penalized.
Mongolian banks have received lots of training supported by donors, but training activities
tend to be on an ad hoc basis without management follow up to ensure implementation.
There is the need to develop and implement a core curriculum of systematic, phased-in
- 5 -



training activities that are closely related to daily operations of the banks.
In addition to the above weaknesses, deficiencies in two critical areas of financial infrastructure in
Mongolia are to be addressed under the project: commercial bank credit risk management and
payments system modernization.
Recent developments. The year 2001 witnessed some positive developments in the sector. Public
confidence in the banking system started to recover as the total deposits as a percentage of GDP
increased to 20 percent from 15 percent in the previous year. Cash outside the system as a
percentage of M2 dropped to 33 percent as compared to 39 percent in 2000. Real interest rate for
local currency loans was 30 percent, but that of local currency deposits dropped to 13 percent;
real interest rates for US dollar loans and deposits declined to 11 percent and 2 percent. NPLs
declined from 23 percent of total loans in 2000 to about 8 percent, thanks mainly to write-offs,
better collection of overdue loans and a large portion of new loans that were yet to become
problematic. The privatization process of Trade and Development Bank was initiated, and a
foreign investor is expected to acquire a controlling shareholding by June 2002. IFC and ADB
may also invest in this bank. The AgBank met the BOM capital adequacy ratio, and became
profitable under the foreign management team. Most banks showed strong growth in profitability
due to the loan growth and high interest spread. An amendment to the Civil Code gives banks
powers over the execution of collateral. This legal improvement and the pent-up demand for
credit in the economy were said to be the main causes of the 100 percent growth in total loans.
Provisions on prompt corrective action are incorporated into relevant law and regulations, and the
new BOM regulation on assets classifications places 50 percent weight on qualitative analysis. As
the MOFE started to redeem the BR-Bonds under the FSAC framework, the bonds accounted for
about 12 percent of total banking assets, a drop of 24 percent from that of 2000. Mongolia
Assets Recovery Agency (MARA) also made progress in the total of NPLs transferred to the
agency: about 11 percent recovered at full value, 38 percent received favorable court decisions, 2
percent to be written off soon, and 49 percent to be recovered or disposed of.
While the improvements are encouraging, the fundamental deficiencies described above prove
difficult to remove. The rapid growth of loans outstanding in 2001 is clearly not sustainable and
there is a significant risk that the weak banking infrastructure will be unable to adequately monitor
and control the risks. Because of the dramatic increase in new loans, loan loss reserves to total
loans declined by 66 percent. Note that Mongolia banks provide for loan loss reserves only on
the NPLs classified according to the BOM norms, and have little experience in forward-looking,
qualitative analysis. Total capital as a percentage of total assets remain almost unchanged
between 13-14 percent. Another trend that calls for close attention is the rapid increase in the
number of start-up institutions in the sector. Over the last 8 months, the central bank licensed 4
commercial banks and 17 NBFIs in an already overbanked economy. In terms of the number of
banks per 100,000 people the country ranked 54th in a group of 108 countries in 1999 (see
Section B.3 for further comparison).
Government strategy. Since early 1990s, successive governments have attempted to develop
the banking sector. Considering where the government started, the progress is impressive. In
1998, the then government began implementing a new round of financial sector reforms that were
- 6-



focused on:
* Establishment of a financial sector infrastructure (banking skills, accounting standards, bank
resolution procedures, etc.);
* Consolidation of the banking system;
*   Divestiture of government ownership in TDB (the largest bank);
* Development of effective iregulations and supervision;
* Improvement of payments system; and
* Timely servicing of govenument bonds.
The current govennment which came to power in June 2000 has repeatedly expressed its
commitment to the strategy. Meanwhile, in its Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(I-PRSP) the government states that the structural adjustments will continue in the banking sector
in the next 4 years, including:
* Shift to indirect monetary instruments,
* Strengthening of bank supervision,
* Privatization of state-owned banks,
* Tightened legal procedures regarding commercial contract enforcement, and
* Improved financial intermediation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues to be addressed. The project seeks to address financial infrastructure weaknesses in
the two critical areas: credit risk management and payments system modernization. The project
will also assist the government to deal with potential systemic risks by developing and
implementing a Savings Bank: resolution strategy and plan.
Credit risk management. The recurrent banking crisis and the existing systemic fragility can be
attributed to a large extent to poor credit risk management in the banking sector. Loans are made
by personal references, without sufficient borrower and market analysis. There is excessive
reliance on collaterals which are not marked to market. There is a lack of forward looking cash
flow analysis. Loan supervisfion is of a cursory nature. Bank management often fails to control
and audit the credit process effectively. In many banks the credit review and portfolio
management functions are missing. In recent years progress has been made in providing basic
infrastructure for credit risk rmanagement. The BOM now requires that banks submit loan
information on all borrowers on a monthly basis to its Credit Information Bureau (CIB), which
provides information on outslanding loans and classification of such loans, although it only covers
the Ulaanbaatar (the Capital) area borrowers. Banks can also check for prior liens on proposed
collateral with the Immovable, Property Registration Agency managed by the Ministry of Justice.
However, compliance with the registration requirements is not steady and the information may or
may not be factored in when lending decisions are made.
As the baniking system is coming out of the recent crisis, the commercial banks in Mongolia have
become increasingly exposed to credit risk. Because small and medium enterprise (SME) loans
are gaining a high profile, many banks plan to offer this type of loan, although in general they do
- 7 -



not have much experience with the product. The increase in high risk assets in the form of loans
can result in an overall erosion in capital adequacy, profitability and liquidity. As the business of
bank, lending determines a bank's quality and performance; good lending policies and procedures
are a key element in the framework for proper management of a banking institution. A bank's
organization structure is also critical to its successful management of risks, particularly in the loan
portfolio. The improvement in credit risk management would no doubt help to reduce systemic
risks, and improve banking system profitability and efficiency.
Payments system modernization. Recent efforts in the area have been focused on the
development of a real-time clearing and settlement system integrated into the core general ledger
of the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) which also maintains the settlement accounts of the commercial
banks. This BOM clearing and settlement system operates as a "Periodic Gross Settlement
System," and works by each bank periodically dialing in and submitting files of payments which
are processed one at a time across the bank's settlement accounts according to standard Real
Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) credit availability rules. Supporting advice received from the
IMF during the past year has concentrated on the issues relating to the implementation of
monetary policy targets and thus this advice has focused on the efficiency of the interbank funds
management and control, and the budget control and liquidity management duties of the Ministry
of Finance and Economy as a subset of the management of liquidity in the economy in the short
term. Importantly, this earlier advice has correctly identified the need to enhance the authority
and legal powers of the central bank in certain areas, especially in regard to risk identification and
management. Noticeably absent from this advice has been a more thorough-going and integrated
solution for the transfer of funds by non-cash payments in all sectors of the economy, including:
* Interbank transfers,
* Disbursement and collection of government payments and revenues,
* Business payments and collections, and
* Consumer payments.
Mongolia is a sparsely populated country with an average per capita income of US$40-90 per
month. This does not reduce the demand for payment services, but it does dictate that any
solution must be cheap and have acceptable low "per transaction" costs. The eroded confidence
in banks also affected the development of the payments system. The banking systems currently in
use in Mongolia are all running on PC platforms. In total, there are no more than
150,000-200,000 commercial bank accounts in Mongolia, and yet all non-cash payments must
ultimately be posted to one of these accounts. The PC banking systems are relatively
unsophisticated, but have proved entirely adequate to date where most banking transactions either
start or complete as a cash transaction. With the introduction and widespread use of non-cash
payment instruments, banking systems will need to become more sophisticated with online links
between branches being highly desirable. This future target is achievable given that there are a
number of initiatives; one initiative is funded by ADB to upgrade banking application systems and
network services. These developments will increase the sophistication of the banking systems
operating in the commercial banks in Mongolia which greatly increases the potential for
introducing new non-cash payment instruments.
The network options available for online banking and related non-cash payments are widening
- 8 -



rapidly with the only effective constraint being price levels. Technical skills in the market are
limited but willing and able within a relatively narrow range of technical options. Networking
skills are scarce but the available resources are reasonably well organized into a few local
Information Technology services companies. In mnitigation of these constraints, the concentration
of investment in low end, small systems and industry standard Microsoft products and related skill
sets is suitable for most IT demands in Mongolia--but some widening of these skills to cover other
internationally widespread technology is appropriate. At the operational level, increased
knowledge and skills with operational utilities such as system and network management tools and
"Help Desk" facilities is mand&tory.
Cash is both the major payment medium in Mongolia as well as being the major store of value.
Official BOM statistics show t[iat 37 percent of M2 is held as cash, which translates as MNTI 16.3
billion (US$100 million) in cash circulating as outside the banking system. Recent developments
in the start-up of card-based services have added card-based payments to the available payments
instruments. The BOM interbank payment order used in the real-time interbank clearing and
settlement system is the most recent form of a non-cash payment order which is supported by
appropriate regulation. Howerer, this payment instrument can only be used for interbank funds
transfers between the Head Offices of the banks and the BOM. In addition, different banks use
different formats and internal instructions for making inter-branch payments, and for taking
various remittance and transfer instructions from customers. It should be also noted that
government budget entities use a standard system of authorization letters and forms which act
entirely like a payment order. All of these forms of non-cash payment would benefit from the
standardization of the associated forms to ensure that such formns are easy to recognize, store, and
process through manual or automatic systems. In addition, the contents of such forms should
comply with certain minimum criteria to ensure that sufficient details are carried on the forms to
enable them to be converted uniquely to electronic format, and to comply with the legal
provisions of Mongolia relating to non-cash value transfers. Modernization of payments systems
and payments instruments in Mongolia is a high priority matter, as is increased confidence in the
banking system. It would reduce the economy's dependency on cash through easier and more
convenient access to and use of the banking system. It would also facilitate the use of the
available liquidity in the banking sector without increasing banking sector risks.
Savings Bank Resolution. Savings Bank (SB) was created as a specialized deposit-taking
institution following the 1996 banking crisis. All household deposits of two insolvent state banks
were transferred to, and the government placed the same amount of BR-Bonds with the SB.
These bonds were non-tradable "IOUs," and did not have the standard features of a government
security. In 2001, the MOFE "standardized" the BR-Bonds held by the SB, which now have a
floating coupon rate that is linked to the central bank bills (monthly average yield of the 91-day
BOM-Bills + a premium). Interest payments are made monthly and the maturity is five years.
The SB also received a limited lending license from the BOM last year, which puts a cap on the
annual loan growth. The loarn portfolio stands about 2.2 percent of total assets, and the
loan-to-deposit ratio is 2.3 percent. The SB earned some profit and paid income tax in 2001, as it
benefited from low deposit raltes, little or no provision for loan losses, and low operating expenses
due to the lack of a normal banking infrastructure. It should be noted that a large portion of SB's
revenue came from the interest income on the BR-Bonds.
-9-



The table below depicts Savings Bank's market share, balance sheet structure and profitability:
Savings Bank Position & Performance
2000     2001
Market Share (%o)
Assets                                        19       14
Savings deposits                              37       28
Balance Sheet Structure (%)
Assets                                      100.0    100.0
BR-Bonds                                    72.0     62.0
Reserves at BOM                             19.6     17.8
Fixed assets                                 2.3      2.3
Cash                                         1.9      1.9
Loans                                        1.5      2.5
Liabilities                                 100.0    100.0
Household savings deposits                  85.8     81.2
Institutional current accounts              10.8     5.6
Profitability (°/0)
Income                                      100.0    100.0
From government securities                  82.0     82.3
Return on assets                             0.5      1.3
Expenses to revenue                         96.0     89.0
Sources: BOM, Savings Bank, staff estimates
The table shows the institution is a bank in name only. However, it is extremely sensitive to
interest rate risk. It suffered losses in the past when the government could not service its debt on
time. A stress test conducted by IMF staff last November reveals that one-percent reduction in
the interest rate of government securities would immediately cause a 10 percent loss of capital.
Meanwhile one percent increase in deposit rate would lead to a 9- percent capital loss. Because
of its importance to system stability, the government has kept Saving Bank open, despite budget
impacts (interest payments amount to over 2 percent of GDP, and non-cash transfers about 6.5
percent of GDP). As the govermment has committed itself to replace the BR-Bonds with
tradeable securities under the FSAC framework, the MOFE started to retire the bonds in 2001.
This would have significant implications for the SB, as it holds more than 55 percent of the total
BR-Bonds outstanding. While it is too risky for the SB to rapidly expand its loan portfolio, the
retirement of the higher-earning bonds would further squeeze tits thin profitability. The
BR-Bonds currently earn 16 percent, while 3-month T-Bills yield between 8-13 percent and the
same maturity BOM-Bills about 14 percent. The MOFE wanted to redeem MNT3 billion in
2001, but ended up with only MNT250 million retired because Savings Bank could not invest the
would-be additional cash for good returns.
-10-



The government has realized tLat the status quo cannot be maintained and is committed to adopt
a time-bound privatization action plan under the FSAC framework. There can be different
options for Savings Bank resolution. Immediate wholesale privatization is not possible since no
outside strategic investors would be interested in SB's present form, and it may be too large for
any domestic investor with banking experience to take on a controlling majority. While the
government has ruled out this option, there are discussions of transforming the savings institution
into a full-fledged commercial bank or merge it with the AgBank. The disadvantages of those
options clearly outweigh the advantages. Savings Bank has little experience in lending and the
basic institutional infrastructure for commercial banking is missing. A rapid expansion of the loan
portfolio is too risky while a gradual approach may take too long. Above all the economy is
overbanked and does not need another weak full-service bank at present. As the following table
shows, in terms of number of banks Mongolia has 5 times more banks than such economies as
Turkey and South Africa. By contrast, Mongolia's per capita GDP is about 13 percent of that of
Turkey and 10 percent of that of South Africa; and its financial sector accounts for about 30
percent of GDP as compared to the ratio of 70 percent in Turkey and 90 percent in South Africa.
Mongolia         ~~~0.X        2,398, 000         390    _2__7
ISouth Africa          0.11         42,800,992        3,120             69
Turkey               ~0. I65,311,000                  3,985             90
Source: Year 2000 data from ]30M, World Bank, IMF.
It seems that a controlled dives,titure of a large portion of SB's assets and liabilities may be a
better option to alleviate the budget burden and resolve the Savings Bank problem. Once it has a
balance sheet structure similar to that of a typical Mongolian commercial bank (e.g. a
loan-to-deposit ratio of 50 percent), the SB may become privatize-able, or can be taken over by a
stronger private bank. However, since Savings Bank is regarded by many small depositors as the
safe haven, strong leadership by the MOFE is necessary to centralize and coordinate the process
of finding a solution.
Strategic choice. Technical assistance initiatives are needed in almost all aspects of Mongolia's
banking sector. The three areas included under the project have been selected in accordance with
government priorities. The government's private-sector led growth strategy could not be realized
without a sound and efficient banking system. The weak institutional capacities in these areas are
the key missing building blocks of this system. The strategic choice is also based on a review of
various on-going donor programs. Although there is a number of donor programs covering
various issues described above, no systematic international assistance in the selected project areas
are being provided, and the pioject would enhance the effectiveness of other donor programs (see
Section D.2 below).



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project consists of the following components. Component 1: Commercial Bank Risk
Management is to assist the participating banks in re-engineering their lending process and
creating a strong credit culture. It would enhance the effectiveness of commercial banks' credit
risk management and compliance with Bank of Mongolia (BOM) regulations and intemational
banking practices. Three commercial banks (Anod Bank, Mongol Post Bank and Zoos Bank)
have been assessed for their eligibility as participating banks based on the agreed selection criteria
(see Annex 2: Detailed Project Description), and final selection will be made before Credit
effectiveness. For each bank, an intemational specialist will be retained to work full time in a
senior management position such as head of credit or chainman of ALCO, who reports directly to
the bank's CEO. Allocations are also made for short-term staff secondment in foreign cornmercial
banks and risk mnanagement systems upgrading.
Component 2: Payments System Modernization is to assure the availability of an appropriate set
of cost-effective payments systems and payment instruments that satisfy the evolving needs of all
sectors of the economy with particular emphasis on the needs of government, business, and
individual consumers to make and receive non-cash payments. The component will assist the
BOM to (a) acquire and install a Switch/Clearing House processor and software, and adopt
related procedures and operating rules; (b) develop new payment instruments and the legal and
regulatory framework to support their use; and (c) establish a Shared Financial Network with
multiple functions for the banking sector. The estimated cost of the Switch/Clearing House
accounts for a major portion of the Credit. Allocations are also made to fund the hardware and
software costs of the network management software utility and related "Help Desk" software.
Related costs of expert technical assistance are also covered. On-the-job training are to be
provided by the supplier and the consultants. There is a small budget for a study tour by the
BOM staff to selected countries where a Switch system has been in operation for years.
Component 3: Savings Bank Resolution is to assist the government to develop and implement a
carefully managed divestiture process of Savings Bank, to diversify systemic risks and reduce
government subsidies. Adoption of a time-bound action plan for Savings Bank privatization is a
condition for the release of the second FSAC tranche, and is in conformity with the announced
government policy of withdrawing state ownership from the banking sector. However, with the
current size and structure of its balance sheet, Savings Bank is not privatize-able. The controlled
divestiture process would reduce SB's size by a large portion, and result in a balance sheet similar
to that of a typical Mongolian commercial bank (a loan-to-deposit ratio of 50 percent). The SB
can then be privatized or taken over by a stronger private bank. Under this component the MOFE
will engage international advisors to develop and implement (a) a workable BR-Bonds
redemption/replacement plan, and (b) a divestiture program to auction carefully packaged assets
and liabilities. A small allowance is provided for a study tour to selected countries with rich
experience in bank restructuring/resolution.
- 12 -



Below are the indicative costs:
Indicative           Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector       Costs    °/e of   tihancing  Bank-
-(US$M)   Total     (US$M)   financing
Commercial Banking Risk         Financial Sector     1.42     25.8      1.28      25.6
Management                      Development
Payment Systems Modernization   Financial Sector     3.81     69.3      3.46      69.2
Development
Savings Bank Resolution         Financial Sector     0.19      3.5      0.18       3.6
Development
Implementation Support          Financial Sector     0.08       1.5     0.08       1.6
__P_ Development                               _
Total Project Costs                 5.50     100.0      5.00     100.0
Total Financing Requlired                  5.50     100.0     5.00     100.0
Note: All cost estimates include price contingencies. The allocations of the Credit proceeds can be found in
Table C of Annex 6.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is an integral part of the continuous policy and institutional reforms in Mongolia's
banking sector that are supported by donor programs, such as IDA's Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit (FSAC), the ADB's Second Financial Sector Program Loan, and the IMF's Second
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). In particular, the project supports the policy
actions required by the FSAC. The strengthening of commercial bank risk management and
improvement in the payments system, as well as a resolution to Savings Bank are all part of the
conditionality for further FSAC tranche releases. While the adjustment credit sets out the policy
framework, this technical assistance project facilitates institutional capacity building of selected
priority areas. Its success, however, would be conditional on the pace and effectiveness of the
reforms regarding macroeconomic stability, commercial bank corporate governance, legal and
regulatory framework of the financial sector, and human resource development. These issues are
dealt with in the Action Plan for Financial Sector Strengthening which the government adopted
under the FSAC framework (see Annex 8: Documents in the Project File).
3. Benerits and target population:
The project is expected to bring about the following benefits on the macro-level:
*   Improved competition in the banking sector through strengthened credit risk management of
selected private-owned barks;
*   Enhanced banking system liquidity management through upgraded payments system and a
shared financial network,
*   Extended access to formal banking services through new electronic payments arrangements;
*   Reduced systemic risk and improved government cash management through Savings Bank
resolution; and
*   Enhanced human capital in. the key areas of the banking sector.
- 13 -



Specific benefits would include:
Component 1:
* For each participating bank, development of a clear understanding of risks the bank is
undertaking, the level of risk the bank wishes to assume in the broadest terms and the
structuring of loans consistent with the level of risk.
* Development of a culture of individual responsibility and accountability for loan quality.
* Establishment of a Credit Review Unit whose exclusive task would be to monitor the ongoing
quality of the loan portfolio.
* Development of policies and procedures for credit and other risk management as appropriate.
* Improvement in rating loans on a qualitative basis.
* Development of a credit system which can be adjusted to reflect market conditions and
changed environment.
*   Acquired skills to assess credit risk and identify an emerging problem with a borrower's ability
to repay.
Component 2:
* A shared financial network that promotes "Real Time Gross Settlement," secondary financial
markets, and cost-efficient investment in terminal infrastructure.
* A common low-cost payments processing system that reduces the transaction load on the
BOMs own processing environment.
*   Development and enforcement of standards for payments orders and new electronic
instruments that comply with the international practices.
* Adoption of common standards for electronic security and banking operational procedures
and a supporting legal framework.
* Improved effectiveness of the ongoing development initiatives financed by other donor
programs (e.g. the ADB program of six-bank banking software, and the IMF program of
Treasury Single Account).
Component 3:
* Implementation of a redemption/replacement plan for the government to retire the costly
BR-Bonds that takes into account the government's cash flow situation, the market demand
and banks liquidity position, and the BOM's monetary policy operation.
* Preparation and implementation of a carefully packaged divestiture process.
* Experience in dealing with distressed financial institutions.
There would be two target groups. Professional staff in the participating banks, the BOM and the
MOFE would upgrade their skills through "learning by doing" with international specialists. The
public, especially small and medium private-owned enterprises and entrepreneurs, would have
better access to formal banldng services.
- 14 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation is expected to take about three years. The implementation agencies
include the currently eligible ihree participating banks for the Credit Risk Management
Component, the BOM for the Payments System Modernization Component, and the MOFE for
the Savings Bank Resolution Component. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) was established
and is headed by the Deputy Minister of MOFE. The PSC comprises (a) the directors of Sector
Development Management and Coordination Department (SDMCD) and Treasury Management
and Coordination Departmnent of MOFE, and (b) the First Deputy Governor and the directors of
Accounting and Information Technology Department and Supervision Department of BOM. The
PSC will provide policy direction and guidance regarding overall project implementation, evaluate
project outcomes and resolve major project coordination issues. A Project Coordination Office
(PCO) was also established before negotiations to serve as the secretariat of the PSC and be
responsible for day-to-day administrative support to the project [e.g., routine communications
between the Borrower and IDA and between the Project Implementation Units (PIU) and the
PSC; project file keeping; and organization of the required audits of project accounts]. The PCO
is headed by the director of SDMCD and will be supported by a full- time Project Coordinator. A
MOFE staff will work part time for the PCO. The BOM is to establish a five-member task team
as the PIU by Board date, and the office of the chief executive of each of the participating bank
will serve as the PIU under thie first component.
Financial management arrangements. A Financial Management Review conducted by a financial
management specialist has been cleared by the Regional Financial Management Advisor. As a
result of this review, a time-bound action plan to address outstanding financial management issues
has been prepared and agreed with the MOFE. Upon adequately addressing the outstanding
issues, the Project will meet Bank financial management requirements as stated in OP/BP 10.02.
The text of this assessment is included in Annex 8: Documents in Project File.
FM institutional arrangements: They are the same as those for the project implementation.
Project accounting and intenal controls: A Project Financial Management Manual (the Manual)
will be prepared by the PCO, to strengthen financial management capacity and ensure that
accounting principles and internal control policies and procedures are consistently complied. The
Manual will be included in the finalized Project Implementation Plan (PIP). A draft Manual was
submitted to IDA for review before negotiations and the Manual will be finalized and formally
adopted by the PCO before the Effectiveness date.
Internal controls encompass authorization, segregation of incompatible functions, adequate
maintenance of supporting documents and project audits. The Manual will document detailed
control policies and procedures. Project monitoring via regular supervision missions will
encompass review of project accounting, reporting and disbursement activities. These internal
control features will be complemented by annual audit required by IDA during the life of the
Project.
Financial monitoring reports (FMRs): In accordance with "Financial Monitoring Reports:
Guidelines to Staff issued by the Financial Management, Operational Services, and Procurement
-15 -



Sector Boards" on November 30, 2001, the IDA discussed and agreed with the MOFE, the
format and content of the following Financial Monitoring Reports, which will be submitted to
IDA on a quarterly basis:
* Sources and Uses of Funds
* Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Activity
* Physical Progress Report
* Procurement Reports
Project audit: IDA requires that an annual audit of project accounts be carried out by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and audit report must be submitted within six months of
the end of each fiscal year, with separate opinion on Statement of Expenditures and Special
Account. It was agreed that an auditor with prior experience with World Bank project will be
appointed by project effectiveness and audit costs will be financed under the Project. It was also
agreed that the same audit firm will conduct annual audit of the Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit. The audit Terms of Reference will be subject to IDA's prior review and clearance.
Disbursement arrangements: Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made on the
traditional system from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on full
documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), and direct payments from the
Credit Account. Disbursements for goods (including hardware and software) would be 100% of
C.I.F. costs for imported items, 100% of ex-factory cost for locally purchased items, and 90% for
other locally procured items. The cost of consulting services would be financed at 94%. Training
expenditures would be financed at 100%. Incremental operating expenses of the PCO would be
financed at 90%.
There will be two special accounts, SA-A and SA-B. The MOFE is to open and operate a Special
Account (SA-A) in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA for Component 1: Commercial Bank
Risk Management, Component 3: Savings Bank Resolution, and the eligible expenses of the PCO.
The BOM will establish and operate a Special Account (SA-B) at a commercial bank acceptable
to the Bank for Component 2: Payments System Modernization.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
As described in Section B, "Strategic Context," policy distortions and structural problems exist in
every corner of Mongolia's banking system. The capacity gaps are monstrous. The temptation is
to address all the issues under one project, but this would be a recipe for failure. The achievement
of the project objectives is a function of the overall legal and regulatory framework and the
financial sector infrastructure. Recently, with the unfolding of several major donor programs in
the sector, progress has been observed in improving the overall banking environment. The
amendment to the Civil Code provides banks the powers to possess and dispose of collateral
without lengthy court procedures. The BOM requires banks to register all loans with basic
borrower information at its Credit Information Bureau, and the upgrading of the system is
underway as a component of the ongoing Private Sector Development Project. The BOM has
- 16 -



also strengthened its prudentia.l regulations and supervision of the banks. The new assets
classification regulations place 50% weighting on qualitative factors, which is a good
improvement. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has identified areas of
noncompliance with the International Accounting Standards (IAS), and a new operation is being
considered to address the issues. In addition, many of the policy and structural issues, such as
monetary policy instruments, Judiciary reforms and education, and banking system upgrading, are
covered by other ongoing Bank operations or other donor programs (see Section D.2 below).
The project therefore focuses on the three areas that have received less technical assistance and
are the key to the achievement of the Government's financial sector reform objectives as described
in the FSAC policy matrix an,1 the I-PRSP. The focused scope of the project also takes into
consideration the limited implementation capacity of the government.
2. Major related projects finaiced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
LatWst Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Debt workout, loan recovery and   Banking, Enterprise and Legal     S             S
supporting judiciary system       Technical Assistance Credit
(completed)
Term lending capacity, private sector  Private Sector Development   S             S
access to longer-term loans and credit  Credit (ongoing)
infornation system
Development and adoption of       Financial Sector Adjustment       S             S
medium-term financial sector sirategy, Credit (ongoing)
action plans on terms of trade,
government payments and debt
servicing, BOM loan classificalion and
prompt corrective actions, and inancial
sector strengthening.
Legal transparency, governance, and  Learning and Innovation Loan
access to justice                 for Legal and Judicial Reform
(approved)                 _
Other development agencies
IMP: Macroeconomic stability and  Second Poverty Reduction and
soundness                         Growth Program (under
negotiation)
IMF: Prudential supervision, banking  Technical Assistance on
accounting and auditing, and monetary Improving banking supervision
policy                            and accounting standards
(on-going)
ADB: Banking laws and regulations,  First Financial Sector Program
BOM capacity building in supervision  Loan and associated technical
and accounting, accounting software  assistance (completed).
for commercial banks, bankers training
- 17-



center
ADB: Prudential regulation and    Second Financial Sector
supervision of NBFIs and capital  Program Loan and associated
market development                technical assistance (on-going)
ADB: Rural finance; supervisory   Various on-going technical
capacity of BOM; financial accounting assistance project
and reporting of commercial banks
UNDP: Microfinance                An on-going operation
USAID: Rural finance; AgBank      On-going operations
turn-over
JICA: Rural banking               A study
Germany: Rural finance system     Various TA projects
SIDA: Bankers training            Technical Assistance project  _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Mongolia's financial sector has received quite a lot of technical assistance from donors. The more
effective donor programs such as the UNDP microfinance program share the common features of
simplicity in project design and local ownership. In less effective cases, international assistance
tend to be in the form of general assessments or ad hoc consultant visits. Some times the
perceived international best practice is introduced without careful analysis of the required legal,
economic and institutional environment. The weak administration capacity and the interagency
coordination issues also affect the performance of donor programs, especially those which span
over a wide range of policy and structural areas. The 1998 Bank portfolio review, and the Client
Feedback Survey confirm these lessons, as do the more recent consultations among donors.
The project design has taken into account those lessons. It targets specific, identifiable and
measurable benefits. The project design also stresses Borrower ownership of the project and
participation of major stakeholders. For instance under the commercial bank risk management
component, for each participating bank, an international expert will be engaged to serve as a
full-time senior bank manager reporting directly to the CEO. This is to avoid the marginalization
of international experts which typically happens should they play only a consulting role. It can
also enhance knowledge transfer between international experts and local staff. The project
implementation programs of the other components also reflect this focus.
- 18 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Under the Bank's FSAC and the parallel ADB Second FSPL policy fiamework, the government is
committed to implement the medium-term financial sector reform program. It reiterated the
reform priorities in the recently completed I-PRSP. The project design has benefited fiom the
analysis and recommendations of international consultants hired by the Borrower under the PHRD
Grant for the preparation of the project. Those analysis and recommendations have been
extensively discussed with the government. The senior management of the Ministry of Finance
and Economy were directly involved in project preparation, and have provided strong support to
the project design and scope. The proposed solution to the payments system modernization has
been well received by the senior management of the BOM which has expressed its readiness to
start project implementation as soon as possible. The currently eligible participating banks are
selected partly because their executives are committed to participate in the project.
5. Value added of Bank suppoit in this project:
The Bank's involvement has helped to bring about many structural changes in Mongolia's banking
sector since early 1990s. The operation with the most far-reaching impact on the policy
environment of the banking system is the FSAC. However, a good policy framework needs solid
structure and building blocks lo support it. The proposed FCDP project, which is closely linked
with the FSAC, is to assist the government and the banks to build institutional capacity in three
key areas of financial sector infrastructure and stability, so that the policies adopted under the
FSAC may be turned into realities. At the institutional level, the commercial bank risk
management component builds on the outcome of previous bank projects, but is more focused on
developing and irnplementing a risk management framework and the internalization of good
policies and procedures. In the areas of payments system modernization and Savings Bank
resolution, the government is yet to receive comprehensive assistance, and the benefits and
outputs of those two components are described in the previous sections. In general, the project
enhances the strategic objectives of the Bank's support program, and is a major operation in the
area of banking sector capacity building.
E. Summary Project Anallysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit  NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project is not expected to generate any direct monetary benefits. The qualitative economic
analysis, such as project benefits, risks and sustainability, are presented in other sections of the
PAD.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and knnex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
The project is estimated to cost US$5.5 million, with IDA financing of US$5 million. Counterpart
finding consists mainly of cointributions in kind, including salaries, and costs of office space and
equipment. While technical alvice by international experts and staff training are important
vehicles for the achievement (if the project objectives, the bulk of the Credit proceeds will finance
-19 -



the cost of a Shared Switch/Clearing House for processing low value electronic payment
transactions. It is estimated that this cost can be recovered over the next ten years (See Annex 5
for detailed cost recovery analysis).
Fiscal Impact:
The budget impact of the project is negligible in the short run. In the medium term, the impact is
positive. Through the on-lending arrangements, the MOFE will pass on the borrowing cost of the
commercial bank risk management component to participating banks while taking into account
the banks' cost of funding from other sources for similar technical assistance programs. The
Shared Switch/Clearing House will initially be incorporated as a BOM-owned company, but will
be turned into a not-for-profit institution jointly owned by the BOM and the banks. As the end of
the grace period of Credit repayment draws closer, the facility will start to have positive cash
flows and is expected to become self-sustainable at the end of the grace period. In addition to
direct-borrowing cost recovery, the project would enhance the budget position. The
redemption/replacement of the costly BR-Bonds under the Savings Bank resolution component
could alleviate the budget burden and improve the government's cash management. The Shared
Switch/Clearing House is expected to facilitate tax collections and the operation of the Treasury
Single Account.
3. Technical:
As described in the previous sections, the design of the commercial risk management and Savings
Bank resolution components is in conformity with the government's priorities with a view to
assisting the counterparts to build on their current capacities. The proposed solution to the
payments system modernization is formed through extensive surveys of user requirements, and is
based on the principles of minimizing the total investment through maximizing the utility of the
infrastructure, and maintaining market neutrality in respect of the commercial activities of the
banks. It will position the national payments system directly within the mainstream of
international payments systems developments and standards. It will also accommodate the future
development of both new electronic payment types and paper-based credit remittance non-cash
payment instruments.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Component 1: At least two participating commercial banks to be selected by PSC in accordance
with agreed selection criteria.
Component 2: The Accounting and Information Technology Department of the Bank of
Mongolia.
Component 3: The Sector Development Management and Coordination Department (SDMCD)
of the Ministry of Finance and Economy
4.2 Project management:
A Project Steering Committee (PSC) was established. The PSC is headed by the Deputy Minister
of MOFE and composed of the directors of SDMCD, and Treasury Department of MOFE, and
the First Deputy Governor and the directors of Accounting and Information Department and
- 20 -



Supervision Department of the BOM. The PSC will provide policy direction and guidance
regarding overall project implementation, evaluate project outcomes and resolve major project
coordination issues. A Project Coordination Office (PCO) was established before negotiations to
serve as the secretariat of the PSC and be responsible for day-to-day administrative support to the
project, e.g., routine communications between the Borrower and IDA and between the project
implementation agencies and the PSC; project file keeping; and organization of the required audits
of project accounts. The PCO is headed by the director of SDMCD and will be staffed with a full
time Project Coordinator and a part time SDMCD staff.
The chief executive of each paiticipating bank will take the overall responsibility for project
implementation under Component 1. The chief executive is to be assisted by an associate with
good English skills for the administrative work related to project implementation. The chief
executive's office will provide secretariat and other logistical support to project implementation.
The director of SDMCD and MOFE is responsible for project implementation under Component
3. The staff of the SDMCD will assist the SDMCD director in handling the administrative work
related to project implementation. For project implementation under Component 2, the BOM is
to set up a five-member task team before the project goes to IDA's Board. The task team will be
composed of a project manager, a Clearing House/Switch specialist, a network specialist, a
payments instruments and regulatory framework specialist, and a project administrator. Job
descriptions have been prepare,i for each of these positions and the major responsibilities of each
position described. In addition, a schedule by project month of major tasks has been prepared for
each project team member to ensure that the total work required by the BOM project team is
appropriately assigned, coordinated and scheduled in accordance with the indicative project
implementation schedule.
These institutional arrangements can enhance project management. Nevertheless, training is
needed especially regarding IDA's policies and procedures on procurement, disbursement and
financial management. A training workshop on those subjects is to be held before Credit
effectiveness. The workshop will be probably jointly organized with one or two other ongoing
IDA projects in Mongolia. A small allocation is also made for continuous training in those areas
for the PCO members. Given the government's budget difficulties and the small staff of SDMCD,
the PCO will engage a local consultant as a full-time Project Coordinator during the entire
implementation period. The costs of the Project Coordinator will be financed under the Credit.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Procurement Law of Mongolia provides waivers for procurement financed by international
financial institutions (IFIs), and they apply to international competitive bidding (ICB) and national
competitive bidding (NCB) proicedures. If there are any conflict with the local laws, the rules of
the IFIs would apply. Regarding the procurement capacity of the project implementing agencies
under the proposed Project, an assessment has been carried out by an IDA procurement specialist.
The Implementing Agencies have various degree of experience with IFIs-financed projects, but all
need to enhance the capacity in procurement planning and monitoring, and the management of
procurement process in accord;mce with the Bank's guidelines. Major weaknesses were identified
in internal policies and procedures, support and control, general procurement environment, and
other areas. To address the weaknesses, the counterparts agreed to adopt and implement an
- 21 -



action plan, which includes training in Bank policies and procedures, appointment of staff with
English skills in PIU, in-field support and hands-on supervision by Bank staff, and engagement by
the BOM of international advisor on procurement process and contract management. The general
procurement risk is rated as high. Refer to Annex 6 for further discussion on procurement
capacity assessment and procurement arrangements. Annex 8 includes the text of the
procurement capacity assessment and detailed risk analysis.
4.4 Financial management issues:
IDA conducted a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) in mid-November 2001.
The CFAA reveals financial accountability mechanisms in need of further development. The main
sources of risk in government financial management include (a) budget fragmentation, (b) use
settlement of transactions, (c) lack of single treasury account, (d) existence of a large number of
bank accounts, (e) use of diverse charts of accounts and informal consolidation practices, (f)
absence of attestation audits for financial statements, and (g) poor enforcement of auditor
general's recommendations and inadequate parliamentary oversight. The CFAA also uncovered
the fact that Mongolia's private sector financial accountability framework is incomplete, and an
accounting and auditing profession lacks skills and experience. This has had an impact on the
adoption of international accounting and auditing standards. The CFAA recommended that
efforts be made to provide official translation of IASs into Mongolian, and the quality of audits of
large companies and state enterprises should be monitored by MOFE. These recommendations
will be discussed with the government outside the scope of this project.
At the project level, a Financial Management Review was carried out by an IDA financial
management specialist during project preparation. As a result of this review, a time-bound action
plan to address outstanding financial management issues has been prepared and agreed with the
MOFE. Upon adequately addressing the outstanding issues, the proposed Project will meet Bank
financial management requirements as stated in OP/BP 10.02. Some of the actions, such as those
related to institutional arrangements, have been/are being completed. Annex 6 provides the
detailed assessment and the action plan. It has been agreed that MOFE will submit financial
management reports to IDA on a quarterly basis. It has also been agreed that an annual audit of
project accounts be carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and an audit report
will be submitted within six months of the end of each fiscal year, with separate opinion on
Statement of Expenditures and Special Account. An auditor with prior experience with World
Bank project will be appointed by project effectiveness and audit costs will be financed under the
proposed Project.
5. Environmental:              Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
N/A
- 22 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used an(d which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
N/A
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
N/A
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangemenits have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy.                                -   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP BP 4.12)                           0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects In International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects In Disputed Areas (OP1 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
- 23 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
While Mongolia's road to a sound, well-functioning banking system is likely to be bumpy, it is
unlikely that the direction would be reversed. The memories of the previous banking crisis are so
fresh with the public, that it is in the interest of the government to stabilize the banling system
and assure improved financial intermediation. The proposed Project is first of all based on this
critical assumption. The ongoing donor programs, including IDA's FSAC, IMF's PRGF, ADB's
SFPL and other bilateral programs, all have this common goal and provide collectively a variety
of leverage to assist the government to complete the country's transition to well-functioning
market economy. The implementation of these programs are monitored by regular supervision
missions and reviewed at annual donor coordination meetings. New programs under
consideration, such as IDA's Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC), may further ensure that
the government remains committed to achieving its medium-term financial sector reform
objectives and private-sector-led economic development, as well as enhancing its overall
implementation capacity especially in regards to its poverty reduction strategy and financial sector
reform.
Against this overall background, a number of the key features in the project design may enhance
the likelihood of the sustainability of the project's benefits:
*   The selection of the participating banks has taken into account the representation of an
important segment of Mongolian banks, i.e., the fast-growing, medium-sized, private-owned
banks, so that improved risk management in participating banks can have a ripple effect in the
banking sector.
* The recommended approach towards Savings Bank resolution may help the government
contain down-side risks while removing a potential trigger of a systemic banking crisis.
*   The envisaged payments system modernization architecture, whilst being based on Mongolia's
current technology environment, has the capacity to support an expanded set of market
applications through modular technical upgrading at a later stage. Meanwhile it would result
in a national payments system that is compatible both with medium-term Mongolian needs and
well established systems and standards typical of developed economies.
* The proposed ownership and organizational structure of the new payments system would
ensure market fairness and technic neutrality.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk'Rating     ,    RiskVMitigation, Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(i) Government's lack of commitment and  M       - Country-level policy dialogues and donor
political and economic conditions in the         coordination.
country seriously affect the achievement         - Team-level consultations with the MOFE and
of project objectives.                           the BOM.
- Disbursement conditions and effective
supervision of FSAC.
- Built-in mechanism for continuous financial
sector reforms in the new adjustment credit
- 24 -



(PRSC) currently under consideration.
- Coordination with other donors regarding
macroeconomic environment and public sector
reforms.
(ii) Project beneficiaries fail to support  M        - Effective communication with management of
project objectives.                                  project beneficiaries.
-Project deliverables that bring identifiable
benefits in enhancing institutional capacities.
- Implementation programs that ensure the
beneficiaries' ownership of the project outputs
through active participation.
(iii) Project beneficiaries fail to implement  M     - Monitoring of qualitative and quantitative
the sought-after project deliverables.               output indicators.
- Effective supervision of project
implementation.
- Midterm review of project performnance.
From Components to Outputs
Component 1:                               M
(i) Weakened role of international senior            - Committed international experts with extensive
manager due to conceptual and cultural               experience in transition economies/developing
differences, and lack of top management              countries to be selected.
support.                                             - Employment contracts clearly define the
responsibilities and accountability of
international experts, and of the banks as
employers.
- Timely intervention of the Steering Committee
in case of any material problems that would
seriously affect project implementation between
(ii) Unsatisfactory implementation of the           international experts and their employers.
new risk management frmework due to                  - Reorganization if necessary to ensure that the
intemal inertia.                                     organizational structure of the banks support the
operation of the new framework.
- Development of an on-the-job training
program by international experts to ensure that
the staff develop required skills to implement the
framework.
- Effective project supervision to identify and
address major shortcomings in project
implementation.
Component 2:                               M         - Strong leadership of the BOM's top
(i) The BOM has limited capacity to                  management.
manage the multifaceted project.                     - Hiring a committed international expert who is
experienced in similar banking systems
modernization projects, especially those
financed by the IFIs.
- Establishment and maintenance of a strong
BOM task team in accordance with the agreed
- 25 -



team-member job descriptions.
- Effective project supervision to identify and
address major shortcomings in project
implementation.
Component 3:                               S
(i) The government fails to reach a                 - Strong leadership by the Minister of Finance
consensus on a resolution program and               and Economy, and close consultation between
action plan that are acceptable to IDA.             the MOFE and the BOM at the working level.
(ii) IDA and government fail to agree on            - Effective consultations between IDA and the
a resolution program and action plan that           government under the FSAC fiamework.
are acceptable to IDA.
(iii) The adopted program/action plan is            - Continuous cooperation between IDA and the
not promptly implemented.                           government under the new adjustment credit
(PRSC) currently under consideration.
- Effective project supervision to identify and
address major shortcomings in project
implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                       M         The risk mitigation measures described above
may help to contain the overall project risk to
the M rating, that is there is a probability of
25-50% that the project development objectives
will not be achieved.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following are conditions for Credit effectiveness:
(a) the GoM has engaged a Project Coordinator under terms of reference acceptable to IDA;
(b) the GoM has adopted a financial management manual satisfactory to IDA in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph l(b) of Schedule 4 to the DCA;
(c) the GoM has entered into subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to IDA, with at least two
Participating Banks;
(d) the BOM and the two Participating Banks referred to in paragraph (c) above have established
their respective Project Implementation Units;
(e) the Project Coordinator and the manager and staff of each PIU established under paragraph
(d) above have completed a course of training satisfactory to IDA on project management,
including without limitation, on financial management and procurement; and
(f) the GoM has appointed an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, under terms of reference
- 26 -



satisfactory to IDA, to carry olut the audit of Project accounts.
2. Other [classify according to cDvenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial Covenants:
* The PCO and the PIUs will maintain in accordance with sound accounting and internal control
practices records and accoumts of the operations, resources and expenditures that are related
to project implementation.
* The PCO will have the project accounts including the records and accounts under statements
of expenditures audited annually by an external auditor acceptable to IDA and furnish IDA the
audit report within six month of the end of each fiscal year.
* The PCO and the PIUs will retain all records, evidencing expenditures made under statements
of expenditures until one year after IDA receives the final audit report for the year in which
the last withdrawal from the credit Account is made, and enable IDA to examine such records.
* The PCO will furnish to IDA quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports in the format and with
the contents agreed during ithe financial management capacity assessment.
Project Management:
* The GoM will maintain thizughout the period of project implementation the Project Steering
Committee and the Project Coordination Office.
*   The BOM will maintain throughout the period of project implementation a Project
Implementation Unit with staffing and responsibilities as described in Section C.4 and Annex 6
of the PAD.
*   The participating banks will maintain throughout the period of project implementation a
Project Implementation Unit with staffing and responsibilities as described in Section C.4 and
Annex 6 of the PAD.
*   The PCO will adopt and implement a financial management manual satisfactory to IDA.
Project Implementation:
* The GoM will select the paiticipating banks in accordance with the agreed selection criteria
(see Annex 2: Detailed Project Description of the PAD), and enter into a subsidiary loan
agreement acceptable to IDA with each selected participating bank, and exercise its rights
under each subsidiary loan Agreement to protect the interests of the GoM and IDA, as well as
to accomplish the objectives of the Project.
* The PCO will include in its quarterly reports to IDA a report on the eligibility of the
participating banks in an agreed format, and promptly inform IDA any conditions affecting the
eligibility of the participating banks.
*   The participating banks will implement Component 1 of the project in accordance with the
provisions of the subsidiary loan agreement.
* The GoM will maintain policies and procedures to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis
the project implementation activities and the achievement of project objectives based on the
project performance indicators agreed during negotiations, and will furnish to IDA quarterly
project progress (including procurement and FMR) reports.
- 27 -



* The GoM will take prompt actions to address any issues raised in the quarterly reports or as a
result of IDA's recommendations.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
II 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
0 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Xiaofeng Hua                      Homi Kharas                        Ian C. Porter
Team Leader                        Sector Director                   Country Director
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MONGOLLA: Financial Capacity Development Project
Aey: Perfrinance  -Data CollectionStrategyo
Hierarchy of Objectives     Indicators                               Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:  Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To assist the Govermment * Sound               * Periodic/ad hoc     * Continued
to achieve medium-term    macroeconomic          review and reporting  government
macroeconomic stability   fhnmework based on     on macroeconomic      commitment to
and private sector       the indicators agreed   policies and situation  private sector led
development through       under FSAC,            by                    economic
institutional capacity    including general      Government/BOM,       development and the
building in selected      government finances    WB, IMF and other     medium-term
priority areas of         as a percent of GDP,   donors.               financial sector
Mongolia's banking        ncnfinancial state  * Periodic/ad hoc       reform objectives.
sector.                   enterprises as a       review and reporting  * Improved institutional
percent of GDP, net    on banking sector     capacity in
domestic credit and    health by             implementing the
net international      Government/BOM,       government's poverty
reserves.              WB, IMF and other     reduction strategy
* Irrnplementation of    donors other donors.   and financial sector
the Action Plan for  * Periodic/ad hoc       reform program.
Financial Sector       reports on legal    * Enhanced legal
Stbengthening          system and            system and effective
adopted under FSAC     framework under       enforcement of laws
in the areas of        donor-financed        and regulations.
corporate              programs and by the  * Continuous
governance, legal and  government.           improvement in BOM
regulatory           * National statistics.  prudential regulations
framework,           * FSAC supervision      and supervision in
commercial banking     reports.               accordance with the
risk management, and                          Basel Core Principles.
NE3FIs.                                     * Continuous political
* Availability of a                             stability.
comnprehensive set of
cost-effective
payments systems
that satisfies the
needs of all economic
sectors.
-29 -



|   Key. Performance  | Data CoIIectlon Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives .   Indicators               .              Critical Assumptions
Project Development   Outcome / Impact       Project reports:      (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:            Indicators:
To support institutional  * New risk          * BOM monetary        * Strategic guidance
capacity building of the  management            survey and            and firm support of
Mongolian banking        framework              supervision reports.  Project Steering
sector to reduce systemic  established and    * Audited financial     Committee.
risks and enhance        implemented in         statements of       * Strong commitment
financial intermediation  participating banks.  participating banks.  of project
through (i) improved   * Improved financial   * FSAC supervision      implementation
commercial banling risk  position and           reports.              agencies.
management; (ii)          performance of      * IMF/PRGF and        * Better management
modernization of          participating banks.  ADB/SFPL reports.     by government and
payments systems and    0 Safe and efficient  0 Other related         project
instruments; and (iii)    online transactions   govermment and        implementation
controlled process of    between end-users      donor reports.        agencies of project
Savings Bank resolution.  and their banks.                            implementation
* Information                                  related risks.
Technology
cost-effectively used
to support
compliance with best
international practice
and realization of the
sought after payments
system and other
information system
related benefits.
* Timely preparation
and implementation
of a resolution plan
for Savings Bank
satisfactory to IDA.
- 30 -



Keyf Performance    Data-Collectlon Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators     .                          Critical Assumptions
Output from each        Output indicators:     Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Commercial bank risk
management
* Enhanced lending      * Rislc-based lending  * IDA supervision       0 Continued
policies and            policies and procedures  reports.              management
procedures to          to be developed and   * Counterparts project    commitment.
mitigate credit risks.  issued within six      implementation        * Mechanism that
* Reorganized risk        months after Credit     progress reports.      ensures the
management              effectiveness.  t       Consultants            responsibility and
functions to enhance    Ratio of NPLs o        deliverables.           accountability of
independent credit      paTlicipating banks                            foreign expatriate
appraisal, monitoring   not to exceed 10                               senior manager.
and review.             pereent throughout                           * well-designed
* Improved skills in      the project                                     secondment programs
credit analysis and     .impeent                                       that bring about
risk-based assets       implementatoon                                 identifiable results.
classification.       * Credit/portfoliodrisk                          Upgraded systems
function reorganized                            that meet the banks'
within six months after                         current operational
Credit effectiveness.                          requirements, but
* All credit officers of the                      have the capacity for
participating banks to                         future expansion.
have completed at least
a training course on
credit risk management
in M!ongolia within the
first 12 months after
Credit effectiveness.
2. Payments systems
modernization
* Upgraded large-value  * Decision to be taken by  * IDA supervision   * Continued
payments system to     the 130M within 12       reports.                commitment of the
provide final and       monts after Credit    * Counterpart project     BOM and other
irrevocable settlement  effectveness regarding  implementation          stakeholders.
and better liquidity    tra  esactions to be    progress reports.    0 Consensus among
management.             processed in the     * Consultants             financial istitutions
* Development of a        existing BOM system.    deliverables.           and government
low-value payments    * An electronic                                   agencies regarding
system to process       tram actions legislation                        the proposed solution
transactions at low     to be adopted not later                         and its
-cost and support the  than 18 months after                            implementation.
adoption of electronic  Credit effectiveness.                        * Effective management
payment instruments.  * Value of commercial                             by the BOM of
- 31 -



* Establishment of a     and govermment                                project
shared fmiancial       transactions processed                       implementation
network that will     through the new                               related risks.
connect all            payments system to
commercial banks,      increase by at least 20
the BOM, all ATMs percent per annum,4
the BOM, all ATMs      respectively, after the
and all EFT/POS        system becomes
merchants in the       operational.
Nation's Capital area.
* Standardized
payments instruments
that can be supported
by law, are accepted
by all Mongolian
banks, and comply
with relevant
international
standards.
3. Savings Bank
restructuring
* A workable           * A time-bound resolution  0 IDA supervision  0 Owner and regulator
BR-Bonds               plan for Savings Bank  reports.               conmmitment.
redemption and/or      to be submitted to the  * Counterpart project  * well-thought through
replacement plan.      Association for itS    implementation         redemption plan and
* A divestiture program  review and conm ent    progress reports.      divestiture program
with carefully         within four months   * S Consultants          that take into account
packaged Savings     *    Implementation of the  deliverables.       of government cash
Bank assets and        resolution plan to be                         flow situation, market
liabilities.           initiated within six                          demand, public
* Implementation of the  months after Credit                           reactions, and
divestiture program.   effectiveness.                                coordination with
* A time-bound post                                                    monetary policy.
divestiture                                                        * Government internal
privatization program                                                consensus over the
of Savings Bank.                                                     divestiture and
privatization
programs.
* Government and IDA
agreement on the
programs.
4. Implementation
support
* Reliable secretariat  * Satisfactory project  IDA supervision reports  * Strong support of the
services to Project   implementation.      PCO project               Project Steering
Steering Committee.  * Timely             implementation progress    Committee.
- 32 -



* Smooth handling of     conmmunication with  reports               * Enhanced project
project administrative  ID                Annual audit reports of   administration
issues   p oii and project                project accounts.         capacity of the PCO.
implementation
Ove     responsibity   agecies.
for project financial  * Compliance with
management.            World Bank project
financial management
requirements.
- 33 -



Key, Performince   Data Coflletion Strategy
Hlerrchy of Objectives      Indicators                              Critical' Assumptions
Project Components /  Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:  (from Components to
Sub-components:       component)                                   Outputs)
1. Commercial bank risk  * Total component cost * IDA supervision  * Enhanced project
management:              is US$ 1,415,000,     reports.               management capacity
with IDA financing of * Counterparts project  of participating
US$1,275,000 and      progress reports.     banks.
participating banks  * Project disbursement  * Compliance with
contribution in kind.  status statements.   World Bank
* Timely disbursement                         procurement and
of IDA funding for                          disbursement policies
eligible expenses.                          and procedures.
* Assurance of                              * Timely procurement
counterpart funding                         of services and
goods.
2. Payments system     * Total component cost * IDA supervision     0 Enhanced project
modemnization            is US$3,812,000,       reports.              management capacity
with IDA financing of 0 Counterparts project  of the BOM.
US$3,465,000 and      progress reports.   * Compliance with
the counterparts    * Project disbursement   World Bank
contributions mainly  status statements.     procurement and
in kind.                                     disbursement policies
* Timely disbursement                          and procedures.
of IDA funding for                         * Timely procurement
eligible expenses.                           of services and
* Assurance of                                 goods.
counterpart funding.
3. Savings Bank        * Total component cost * IDA supervision     * Enhanced project
Resolution               is US$194,000 with    reports.               management capacity
IDA financing of    0 Counterparts project   of the MOFE.
US$185,000 and the    progress reports.    * Compliance with
MOFE's contribution  * Project disbursement  World Bank
in kind.              status statements.     procurement and
* Timely disbursement                          disbursement policies
of IDA funding for                           and procedures.
eligible expenses.                         * Timely procurement
* Assurance of                                 of services and
counterpart funding.                         goods.
4. Implementation     Total component cost is  * IDA supervision    * Strong support of the
support               US$79,000, with IDA       reports.              Project Steering
financing of US$75,000  * Counterparts project  Committee.
and the MOFE's           progress reports.    * Enhanced project
contribution in kind.  0 Project disbursement   coordination capacity
status statements.    of the PCO.
- 34 -



* Compliance with
. World Bank
procurement and
disbursement policies
and procedures.
* Timely procurement
of services and
goods.
- 35 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MONGOLIA: Financial Capacity Development Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.28 million
Commercial Bank Risk Management
The main objectives of this component are to assist the selected commercial banks in
re-engineering their lending process and creating a strong credit culture. It would enhance the
effectiveness of commercial banks' credit risk management and compliance with Bank of
Mongolia (BOM) regulations and international banking practices. It is expected that these
objectives will be met through the introduction of international best banking practices modified to
fit the Mongolian banking environment. The component will address the participating banks'
needs through the development and field-testing of improved policies, procedures and skills, and
be implemented by the participating bank's management with an international expert working as a
member of the bank's senior management team.
The scope of work encompasses the following elements:
* Review and revise the current credit policies and procedures.
* Review the organizational set-up to address risks associated with a lack of independent credit
appraisal and monitoring function.
* Design strategy and implementation plan.
*   Design effective credit limit process reflecting operating environment of the participating
branch, management and staff skills as well as sector and client exposure.
* Short-term staff secondment in selected foreign correspondent banks.
* Limited upgrading of banking systems directly related to improved risk management.
Benefits include:
* Develop a clear understanding of what kind of risks they are undertaking; define in the
broadest terns the level of risk they wish and may assume; and how loans should be
structured in order to be consistent with the preferred level of risk.
* Develop a culture of individual responsibility and accountability for loan quality.
* Assist the participating banks to establish a Credit Review Unit whose exclusive task would
be to monitor the on-going quality of the loan portfolio.
* Develop policies and procedures and develop where they do not currently exist.
* The participating banks would become more effective in rating loans on a qualitative basis,
which is vital given the rapid increase in loan outstanding in the Mongolia banking system.
* Provide the banks with a credit system which can be adjusted to reflect market conditions and
changed environment.
* Acquire the skills to assess credit risk and identify an emerging problem with a borrower's
ability to repay.
The selection criteria of participating banks are as follows:
- 36 -



*   Total assets greater than MNT 8 billion.
*   Risk adjusted capital adecquacy ratio greater than 12 percent.
*   Private ownership greater than 80 percent.
*   Ownership diversification - more than three shareholders.
* NPLs less than 10 percent; of total loans.
*   At least one Ulaanbaatar branch and one countryside branch.
* In compliance with BOM prudential requirements.
*   IAS audit as of 31 December 2000.
*   Commitment of senior management to the project.
Selection of participating banks began at the project pre-appraisal stage with an estimation of the
technical assistance needs of different Mongolian banks. After careful consideration and
discussion with Mongolian counterparts, the largest four banks are excluded from the selection
process:
*   Agricultural Bank already has in place an experienced American senior management team.
*   Trade & Development Bank is in the process of being privatized and may well have a foreign
owner.
*   Savings Bank is dealt with in a separate component of the project (see below).
*   Golomt Bank is already a participant in several donor-financed lending programs and
expressed little interest in adding another at this time.
A review of the remaining eight banks based on the selection criteria has identified three banks,
i.e. Anod Bank, Mongol Post Bank and Zoos Bank, as possible participating bank candidates.
The following table provides a broad picture of the banks.
Banking System      Anod             Post            Zoos
Share in total       100.0%            7.2%             5.2%            4.6%
assets
Capital/risk-weight   22.8             13.8            25.1            28.9
ed assets
Loans/deposit         63.8             89.7           124.5           107.2
NPL/total loans        11.2             3.5            10.1             3.5
Return on equity      35.2             10.5            17.0            19.3
Operating             36.3             38.2            46.5            31.2
expenses/income 
Loans growth          99.0            105.6            79.1           234.3
As of 10/31/01
Source: BOM, IMF
However, there is a long way to go for the banks to develop a strong credit culture. The credit
manuals of those banks are mc,re procedures than policies, and are biased towards making loans
rather than monitoring them. Credit policy is buried in annual business plans, internal
communications and informal parameters. Implementation of the credit procedures and policies is
- 37 -



uneven. While BOM issued the new regulations on loan classification, the banks do not have the
capacity to classify assets on qualitative basis. Internal audits are often focused on checking out
"mistakes" rather than on setting up systems and procedures that prevent mistakes. The
management of the banks have recognized those weaknesses and expressed keen interest in
participating in the project. Detailed assessment of the banks can be found in Annex 8: Document
in the Project File.
Final selection of participating banks will be made before Credit effectiveness, and a participating
bank needs to continue to meet the selection criteria throughout project implementation period.
The eligibility of a participating bank will be monitored by the government and IDA on a
continuous basis through field visits, and quarterly reports of an agreed format which include the
selection criteria and specific BOM prudential norms.
Implementation. An intemational banking expert will be engaged by each of the participating
banks as a full time employee to work in a senior management position such as head of credit or
chairman of ALCO, who reports to the CEO. This expert will also develop an on-the-job training
program and deliver it. The recent tumaround of AgBank under the leadership of an international
management team shows that intemational experts can be more effective if they are part of the
bank management; and if their contracts provide sufficient responsibility and accountability. The
estimated person-months for each international expert is about 19 months to be completed during
a 28 month period. At the end of the period, an international consultant will be engaged to
conduct an independent evaluation of the project implementation by all participating banks.
Short-term secondment in well-established foreign banks may provide selected staff exposure to
good risk management practices and strong credit culture. A small budget for 36 staff/months
(each participating bank) in a period of three years is allocated for this purpose. The participating
banks will send IDA an annual secondment program for review and clearance each year. As bank
risk management policies and procedures are revised/developed, systems such as MIS and
banking software will need to be upgraded. The project is to cofinance the related costs.
Counterpart Resources. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of each participating bank will
provide senior management leadership for the project. In addition, the CEO will designate a
project administration staff with English language skills. This staff will have access to reliable
telephone, fax, intemet and copying facilities. The designed staff will also work closely with the
Project Coordination Office located in the MOFE regarding procurement and disbursement issues.
Indicative costinz. For IDA financing, the cost of the services of the international experts is
estimated as US$780,000; that of overseas staff secondment as US$195,000; and that of systems
upgrading US$300,000. All cost estimates include price contingencies.
Project Component 2 - US$3.46 million
Payments System Modernization
The objective of this component is to assure the availability of an appropriate set of cost-effective
payments systems and payment instruments that satisfy the evolving needs of all sectors of the
economy with particular emphasis on the needs of govenmment, business, and individual
- 38 -



consumers to make and receive non-cash payments.
The scope of work. A shared Financial Network Solution and National Clearing House have been
proposed and agreed upon with the Mongolian counterparts to address the sector issues identified
in Section B. This requires the establishment and successful installation of (a) A Switch/Clearing
House processor and software, procedures, operating rules; (b) Payment Instrument definition
and legal/regulatory support; and (c) Shared Financial Network with multiple functions for the
banking sector.
This proposed solution would deliver multiple benefits to the BOM, the banks, merchants and
users of non-cash payments. la particular:
* BOM obtains an online coimection with all bank Head Offices for real-time settlement
services.
* BOM obtains a real-time rmessaging and price broadcast service for bulk deposits,
Government Bonds and BOM Bills to facilitate the development of an active secondary
market.
* BOM obtains a secure file transfer and messaging service for the exchange of BOM messages
and supervisory reports from Bank inspectors, as well as for the submission of regular
statutory reports from banks.
*   Banks obtain a common network and Switch for the submission of all interbank EFT payment
messages for both individual payments and for files of low value payments which can be
exchanged with any bank.
* Merchants obtain a common network and Switch for the submission of all retail EFT payment
messages captured from both Magnetic Stripe Cards and Smart Cards.
*   Mongolia obtains a true low value clearing house which can operate on a real-time basis with
net settlement being periodic throughout the day - or at least at end-of day.
*   Banks minimize the net investment cost of establishing a credible critical mass of merchants
who accept bank cards as a! reliable and acceptable form of payment.
* Paper based payment instnrctions can be developed with these being immediately entered into
the EFT system through standard data entry routines at each online or offline bank branch.
* The MOFE has a range of future options for the management of its total funds on a
centralized and controlled basis.
Implementation will consist of two discrete and separate phases: (a) procurement activities
covering preparation of system, requirements, issuing a bidding document to prospective qualified
suppliers, evaluating supplier responses, selecting the winning supplier, and signing an
implementation contract with the winning supplier; and (b) physical installation of application
software, computer processing equipment, data communications equipment, integration testing,
training, operational testing, operational readiness of all participants, pilot system operation,
system acceptance, full operation. On-the-job training is to be provided by the supplier's team and
consultants. A study tour is budgeted for the BOM task team to visit selected countries where a
similar solution has been in operation for years.
Procurement activities are likely to require an elapsed time of 13 calendar months from user
requirements definition, to bidding documents preparation and proposal evaluation, through
- 39 -



contract award. The implementation phase is likely to require an elapsed time of 10 calendar
months. Physical installation will require very close cooperation between all stakeholders and will
be facilitated by establishing a fully representative leading group headed by the First Deputy
Governor of the BOM. The BOM is also to set up a task team composed of a project manager, a
network specialist, a switch specialist, a payments instruments specialist, and a project
administrator. The majority of the required goods and services can be acquired in a single stage
"supply and install" procurement. However, there will also be a need to acquire more specialist
external consultant support via individual consultant services procurements. Other
implementation planning initiatives should be initiated immediately and should cover key policy
issues relating to system ownership and commitment of senior banking sector officials. Current
views are that initial ownership and operational responsibility should be assigned to BOM.
However, the ownership arrangements should be established in a way that does not preclude
future outsourcing or the establishment of a not-for-profit arrangement with cooperative
ownership by the BOM and the participating banks. Irrespective of the specifics of the ownership,
the BOM would always have an appropriate oversight role.
Particular care will also be taken to use the computer system acquisition process as a vehicle to
discuss, agree, and disseminate an appropriate set of technical, business, and security standards
for use by all financial sector institutions in future information technology based improvement
initiatives. This will facilitate interoperability of critical customer oriented systems and increase
convenience of use and confidence in the banking system.
Counterpart resources. In addition to taking a leadership role in project implementation, the
BOM will take the lead in initiating the required changes to provide a legal and institutional
framework for the proposed solution and the adoption of non-cash payments throughout the
economy. While the institutional development takes time, it has to be undertaken in parallel with
the technical infrastructure development. The BOM will also provide office space, telephone,
internet and copying facilities, as well as secretariat support to the supplier's team and consultants.
Indicative costing. Based on best available professional estimates the total cost of this component
would be approximately US$3,460,000 for IDA financing; of which the estimated cost of the
Clearing Hours is US$2,950,000; that of the network hardware US$240,000; that of the network
system management software US$170,000; that of the international advisor US$80,000; and that
for the study tour US$20,000. All cost estimates include price contingencies.
Project Component 3 - USS 0.19 million
Savings Bank Resolution
The main objective of this component is to assist the government to develop and implement a
carefully managed divestiture process of Savings Bank, to diversify systemic risks and reduce
govemment subsidies. Adoption of a time-bound action plan for Savings Bank privatization is a
condition for the release of the second FSAC tranche, and is in conformity with the announced
government policy of withdrawing state ownership from the banking sector. However, with the
current size and structure of its balance sheet, Savings Bank is not privatize-able. The controlled
divestiture process would reduce the bank' size by about 80-90 percent, and result in a balance
- 40 -



sheet similar to that of a typical Mongolian commercial bank (a loan-to- deposit ratio of 60
percent). The SB can then be p.rivatized, or taken over by a stronger private bank.
The scope of work The success of a controlled divestiture process depends on several key
factors. The MOFE has to make good its plan for BR-Bonds redemption and pay interest on
time. Otherwise there will be liltle interest in Savings Bank assets/liabilities packages. The
redemption schedule should ma:ch the Treasury's cash flow situation, and be coordinated with
BOM's monetary policy operations. The bundling of the packages is equally important to
generate market interest. Considerations should also be given to the possible impact on the public
confidence in the banking system, and related legal and regulatory issues. Under the PHRD Grant
for the FCDP preparation, an international consultant has assessed projections by Savings Bank of
its loan and deposit growth in the next three years, and reviewed SB's deposit structure to help
the government better understand the behavior of Savings Bank's depositors. Building on this
analysis, the project will provide international advisory services to assist the MOFE to:
* Review and analyze the government cash flows;
*   Improve the T-Bills program;
*   Develop a workable BR-Bond redemption program
* Design and conduct a market survey of banks regarding market acceptance of different
packaging of Savings Bank's BR-Bonds and deposits;
*   Develop a divestiture program based on the analysis of the survey results and the BR-Bond
redemption program; and
* Assist the implementation o:f the divestiture program.
The main benefit of this component is the resolution of the Savings Bank problem and the
associated potential systemic risks as described in Section B of the PAD. The MOFE may also
benefit from improved government cash management and T-Bills program.
Implementation. The MOFE will engage two international advisors: one focusing on the
BR-Bonds redemption plan and associated Treasury management issues; and the other on the
packaging of Savings Bank assets and liabilities and the auction program. The services of a
Treasury management specialist may take 1.5 men/months during a period of 3 months, while
those of a bank restructuring specialist about 5 men/months during a period of 18 months.
The Sector Development Management and Coordination Department (SDMCD) of MOFE will be
responsible for the implementation of this component. The MOFE will also be responsible for
interagency coordination with the BOM and the State Property Committee, and for developing
and implementing a public awareness program once the resolution process starts.
Counterpart resources. The SDMCD will designate a staff member as the counterpart of the
consultants. It will also provide physical facilities such as office space, and communication
facilities, as well as secretariat support to the consultants.
Indicative costing. The estimated costs for IDA financing are as follows: US$170,000 for
consultant services; and US$20.000 for a study tour by MOFE and other related officials to
-41 -



countries with rich bank resolution/restructuring experience. All cost estimates include price
contingencies.
Project Component 4 - US$0.08 million
Implementation Support
Objectives. This component will support the operation of the Project Coordination Office (PCO)
and the audits of the project account.
Project Coordinator. A qualified local consultant is to be hired as the Project Coordinator in the
PCO by effectiveness, in accordance with the TOR and the contract cleared by IDA.
Tranling. The Project Coordinator and the part time PCO member will receive training on Bank
policies and procedures in the training centers of the nearby countries acceptable to IDA.
Project audits. There will be three annual audit reports of the project accounts. A private sector
auditor acceptable to IDA is to be appointed by effectiveness.
Office equipment. To facilitate project related communications and knowledge sharing, the costs
of limited office equipment, such as overhead projector, fax machine, copier, PC, etc., are to be
covered under the Project.
Incremental operational cost. Given the limited resources of the government, a small amount of
the Credit proceeds is allocated to finance the incremental operational cost of the PCO, e.g.
reliable internet connection, international telephone calls and good quality printer paper.
Indicative costing. The following estimated costs are for IDA financing: US$33,000 for the
Project Coordinator, US$15,000 for the project audits; US$15,000 for PCO staff training;
US$3,000 for office equipment; and US$17,000 for incremental operational costs. All cost
estimates include price contingencies.
-42 -



Ainnex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MONGOLIA: Financial Capacity Development Project
Project Cost by Component                      Local (US$)  IDA (US$)   Total (US$)
Component 1: Commercial Bank Risk Management       118,300    1,190,000   1,308,300
Component 2: Payments System Modernization         295,200    3,052,000   3,347,200
Component 3: Savings Bank Resolution                 9,800     178,000      187,800
Component 4: Implementation Support                 10,700      80,000       90,700
Total Baseline Cost                                434,000    4,500,000   4,934,000
Physical Contingency
Price Contingency                                   66,000     500,000      566,000
Total Project Costs                 500,000    5,000,000   5,500,000
Total Financing Required               500,000    5,000,000 _ 5,500,000
- 43 -



Annex 4
MONGOLIA: Financial Capacity Development Project
N/A
- 44 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MONGOLIA: Financial Capacity Development Project
I. Cost Recovery Analysis of the Shared Switch/Clearing House.
Basic assumptions. Electronic payments would be generated from a more rapidly expanding card
base and merchant base, and from the MOFE, as well as from mobile phones, therefore the estimated
number of transactions over a 10 year period can be considerably increased. The 10 year time
horizon is taken in view of the standard IDA Credit term for the grace period for Mongolia. The
cost and revenue estimates are based on the best information available at present. While adjustments
will be made as more information become available, no major change in the end result is anticipated.
The revenue estimates do not include the future value of the Switch/Clearing House at the time it is
converted from a wholly BOM owned clearing center to a sharing-holding nonprofit company.
For IT projects, it is commonly argued that IT system become out of date within 3-5 years and
therefore the payback period must be equally short. While this view of IT obsolescence is true for
many IT systems which must be constantly updated to meet changing customer demands, it is not
true of networks and Clearing Houses since the demand is constant for the same service. IT
networks and systems, which provide a stable industry specific core set of services, tend to be very
stable. For example, the SITA network has been in existence with only one major overhaul for at
least 30 years. The SWIFT network has a similar history, and national Clearing Systems are typically
re-engineered on about a 20 year cycle. For payment national systems in particular, the greatest cost
in upgrading or replacing the systerm is not the direct cost of the system itself, but of all the changes
which every business and bank has to make internally to meet the new technical and operational
procedures. Naturally, all users of the payment system seek to avoid these costs for as long as
possible and for this reason, national payment systems show a remarkably stable IT history and
relatively long life span.
Detailed assumptions. For detailect assumptions under each cost and revenue item, please refer to
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File.
-45 -



Cost Analysis:
Cost Category     Costitems                             Anmal Operatiang     e     ar   y              yonsecudve                 Sub-Total
Start-Up    1      2       3      4       5      6       7      8       9       10
Equipent          Processing Hardw&e        229,000       0      0      0       0  15,000      0      0       0      0         0      244,000
Sysemn Software            49,500   5,000  5,000  5,000   5,000  5,000   5,000  5,000   5,000  5,000     5,000       99,500
Application Package       750,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 45,000     45,000 45,000    45,000     1,200,000
bIplementation Services   420,000      0      0       0      0       0      0       0              0        0       420,000
Softwae/lnterfaces        338,000      0   0      0       0      0          0       0      0|       0       0       338,000
Stall-Up Consulancy       279,600      0       0      0     0       0      0       o      0                0       279,600
Salaries          Maage                           0   4,200  4,200   4,620  5,082   5,590  6,149   6,764  7,441   8,185    9,003       61,234
Secretary/Administrabon         0   1,800  1,800   1,980  2,178  2,396   2,635  2,899   3,189  3,508     3,858       26,243
Marketing/Administration        0   2,400  2,400  2,640   2,90   3,194   3,514  3,865   4,252  4,677     5,145       34,991
_________ _Tring/Adminis on     0   2,400  2,400  2,640   2,90   3,194   3,514  3,865   4,252  4,677     5,145       34,991
Technical Support               0   3,000  3,000   3,300  3,630  3,993   4,392  4,832   5,315  5,846     6,431       43,738
Technical Suppon                0   3,000  3,000   3,300  3,630  3,993   4,392  4,832   5,315   5,846    6,431       43,738
Technical Support               0   3,000  3,000  3,300   3,630  3,993   4,392  4,832   5,315   5,846    6,431       43,738
Promotion         TraingMateial                 500     250    250    250     250    250     250    250     250    250       250        3,00
Monhly Reportng                 0    180     180    180     180    180     180    180     180    180       180        1,800
Brochures                     500    500     400    200    100     100     100    100     100    100       100        2,300
Communications     Leased lines & Gateways    95,000    250    250    250     250    250     250    250     250    250       250        97,500
Network Equipment          77,000    500     500    500    500    6,500    500    500     500    500       500       88,000
Office Equipment  PCs, Faxes, Machines        10,000      0      0       0      0   7,500      0     0        0       0        0        17,500
Fitnngs, Deaks, Chairs      5,000      0       0      0       0   3,500      0      0       0      0         0        8,500
Stationery                  2,000    500     500    500     500    500     500    500     500    500       500        7,W1
Fit-Out & Rent    Office Space                  500       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0        0          500
Comnpute:r Roorn            2,500      00                     0      0       0      0               0                 2,500
TotalCosts/Period                         2,259,100  71,980  71,880  73,660  75,738 110,134  80,769  83,668  86,857  90,365  94,     3,098,37-
- 46 -



Revenue Anal ais:
ReVrnue C.I.RO,y    Re.vnue Ite.m                            Annala Operating ncome pe category per coxsesetive yearfron  Transaction Fees     Sub-rotal
AXnnua Ope   ting Revenue pe category per cons cutive year
_tort-Up     1       2       3       4       5        6                                I 8   9  10
Interbank Payments  Card Based Payments                    9,600   11,520  13,824  16,589  19,907  21,897  24,087   26,496  29,145    32,060        205,124
Text Based Payments                   12,800  15,360   18,432  22,118  26,542  29,196  32,116  35,328   38,860    42,746        273,499
Paper Based Payments          _       14,400  17,280  20,736  24,883   29,860  32,846  36,130  39,743   43,718    48,090        307,686
Govt. Payments      Govt. Salary Payments                 64,800  64,800   64,800  64,800  64,800  64,800  64,800   64,800  64,800     32,400       615,600
Social Benefit Payments      8_ 4,000         86,100   88,253  90,459  92,720  92,720  92,720  92,720   92,720    92,720        905,133
Govt. Collections   Revenue Tax Payments                  36,000  36,900   37,823  38,768  39,737  40,731  41,749   42,793  43,863     44,959       403,322
VAT Payments                          12,000  12,300  12,608   12,923  13,246  13,577  13,916   14,264  14,621    14,986        134,441
Fees Income         Annual Membership Fees        _         3750    3750    3750     3750    3750    3750    3750    3750     3750      3750         37,500
Merchant Set-Up/Training  _             5000    5000    5000    5000    5000     5000    5000    5000    5000       5000
Data Entry ofvouchers                  9,600  11,520  13,824   16,589  19,907  23,88  28,665  34,399   41,278    49,534        249,203
Total Revenue/Period                                     251,950 264,530 279,049 295,879 315,468 328,405 342,934 359,292 377,755      366,245      3,181,508
Net Profit (Zoss)                          _         =    179,970 192,650 205,389 220,141 205,335 247,636 259,266 272,435 287,391     272,022        83,134
II. Basic Assumptions of the Estimated Foreign Costs by Category.
The estimated costs of consultants services under Component 2 - 4 are arrived by using (a) the
above-average fee rate on the market for similar type of assignments and consultants qualifications;
and (b) the World Bank rates for ithe reimbursable expenses regarding operational travels to
Mongolia. Those costs under Component 1 are based on the above-average market rate of foreign
experts' salaries under similar employment contracts, taking into account the going rate on the local
market for cost of living of foreign expatriates.
-47-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MONGOLIA: Financial Capacity Development Project
Procurement
Bank guidelines and standard documents: All procurement of goods and services will comply
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits issued January
1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999; and Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by world Bank Borrowers issued January 1997,
Revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form will
be used as appropriate.
Institutional arrangements: The overall oversight is to be provided by the Project Steering
Committee with the assistance of the PCO. The PCO is responsible to (a) prepare quarterly
procurement reports including the annual updated procurement notice; (b) prepare, publish and
update annually the general procurement notice in a manner satisfactory to IDA; and (c) ensure
the procurement processes to be carried out by PIUs comply with the principles of efficiency,
economy and transparency. This office is also to prepare and submit to IDA for prior review and
clearance (a) TORs and draft contracts of the Project Coordinator and auditor, respectively; (b) a
list of office equipment; and (c) training plans for the PCO staff. Under Component 1:
Commercial Bank Risk Management, the chief executive's office of each participating bank will
be responsible for preparing and submitting to IDA for prior review and clearance (a) the Terms
of Reference (TOR) for the international senior manager; (b) lists of goods for risk management
system upgrading; and (c) annual training programs for staff overseas secondment. Under
Component 2: Payments System Modernization, the BOM task team will be responsible for
preparing and submitting to IDA for prior review and clearance (a) bidding documents for the
Switch/Clearing House, (b) lists of the network hardware, (c) user requirements of the network
system management software, (d) consultant's TOR and draft contract, and (e) a plan for the
study tour. Under Component 3: Savings Bank Resolution, the Sector Development
Management and Coordination Department of the MOF will be responsible for preparing and
submitting to IDA for prior review and clearance (a) consultants' TORs and draft contracts, and
(b) a plan for the study tour.
Procurement capacity assessment: The Procurement Capacity Assessment of the Implementing
Agencies prepared by a procurement specialist has been submitted for RPA clearance. The basic
legal framework for procurement by Mongolian entities comprises of the Public Procurement Law
and the two guidelines for the procurement of works and goods, and for consultants' services.
The Law gives waivers to procurement financed by the international financial institutions (IFIs).
The government agrees and follows the direction that the international financial institutions (most
specifically the Bank) rules will apply if there are any conflict with the local laws. The
Implementing Agencies have various degree of experience with IFIs financed projects, but all
need to enhance the capacity in procurement planning and monitoring, and the management of
procurement process in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Below is a summary table of the
assessment.
-48 -



Item             Assessment         Major Weakness           Risk
Legal aspects                Fair        Significant departure of    High
internal procedures from
Bank guidelines.
Procurement cycle            Fair        a) Procurement plans        High
management                               not well prepared; b)
lack of extensive
experience in Bank
projects.
Organization and            Poor         Absence of internal        Average
function                                 manuals and guidelines.
Support and control          Fair        a) no post-evaluation       High
system                                   and audit; b) weak
internal control culture.
Record keeping               Fair        No particular weakness     Average
identified.
Staffing                     Fair        No particular weakness     Average
identified.
General procurement          Fair        a)                          High
environment                              Political/administrative
interference; b) weak
anticorruption
framework.
Action plan: To address the weaknesses, the following action plan has been agreed with the
Implementing Agencies, and the MOFE:
General:
*   Have the institutional arrargements in place by Credit effectiveness.
*   In depth training course by IDA staff and consultant for staff of the implementing uiits, with
emphasis on case studies, bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract management (to be
launched prior to credit eflfectiveness).
*   Professional advisory support from WBOM  through Operations Officer (ongoing) and
Bangkok hub as needed.
*   Hands on supervisory support from IDA staff with procurement experience (desk-top and/or
field supervision) plus occasional additional support by mission staff visiting for other project
activities.
PIU specific:
*   The BOM is to hire an international specialist experienced with banking systems upgrading
and IDA policies and procedures as their technical advisor by Credit effectiveness.
* The chief executive of each bank is to designate a staff with English language skills to assist
the chief executive to manage the project by Credit effectiveness.
* The MOFE is to have the Project Coordinator and the other PCO staff undergo intensive
-49 -



training in Bank procurement policies and procedures which are offered in the country and in
regional training centers, so that the PCO staff may provide procurement related support to
the PIUs as soon as possible after the signing of the Credit Agreement and through out the
project implementation period as appropriate.
Overall risk assessment: Based on the above analysis the overall procurement risk analysis is the
High category. The Procurement Capacity Assessment is included in Annex 8: Documents in
Project File.
Procurement arrangements of goods: There is no procurement of works under the project. There
will be one ICB for the procurement of the Switch/Clearing House. The Switch/Clearing House
is a well-established technology in the international market, and may be acquired off-the-shelf and
adapted to local conditions. The BOM has agreed to retain an international specialist to provide
technical advice on user requirements and bidding documents preparation. Therefore, it seems
appropriate that the single stage procedure be used. International shopping method (IS) will
apply to the procurement of the hardware and system management software packages of the
Shared Financial Network, and the risk management system upgrading (software packages). By
the Bank policy, local sales agents of foreign suppliers may participate in the international
shopping process. There would be about three contracts to which the IS procedure applies under
Component 1. This is mainly because different participating banks will have different
requirements for bank-specific risk management systems. Under Component 2, the number of
contracts subject to the IS procedure is estimated to be four, including one network management
tool, one systems management tool, and two separate contracts for network management server
and routers, respectively. National Shopping procedure (NS) will be used for the procurement of
hardware related to risk management systems upgrading under Component 1, periphery
equipment of network hardware under Component 2, and the office equipment of the Project
Coordination Office. As the goods are not homogenous ranging from satellite discs through
cabling to copier, there would be about 8 contracts in total under the NS method.
Procurement arrangements of consultants' services: The nature of the consultants assignments
under the project entails that only individual consultants will be hired. Under Component 1:
Commercial Bank Risk Management, an international banking expert will be hired to work
full-time as part of each participating bank's senior management. In addition, a consultant will be
hired towards the end to conduct an independent evaluation of project implementation by the
participating banks. Under Component 2: Payments System Modernization, an international
consultant will be engaged to serve as the technical advisor to the BOM task team for the
management of the procurement process and contract implementation. The consultant will also
provide advice on the standardization of payments instruments and related international standards.
Under Component 3: Savings Bank Resolution, two international experts, one on Treasury
management and the other on banking restructuring, are to be retained for the MOFE. A full-time
local consultant will be engaged as the Project Coordinator to work within the Project
Coordination Office. The PCO will also retain a project auditor acceptable to IDA by Credit
effectiveness. Consultant selection procedures applicable under each project component are
provided in Table Al.
- 50 -



Procurement arrangements of training and study tour: Training activities are to be organized by
the PIUs, with the annual trairing program cleared by IDA. Study tours will also be organized by
the PIUs with IDA's prior clearance.
Project costs by procurement methods: Project costs including the breakdown between the
estimated total contract value and the part eligible for IDA financing by procurement
arrangements are provided in rable A below.
Prior review thresholds: There are no Works to be procured under the project. For Goods, all
contracts with a value above US$100,000 are subject to IDA's prior review. All the TORs and
contracts of the individual consultants services need IDA's prior clearance. -The TOR of the
project auditor is subject to IDA's prior review and clearance. The thresholds for IDA's prior
review have been set giving due considerations to the institutional weaknedsses, the nature of the
project activities, and the practices under other IDA financed projects in Mongolia. See Table B
for details.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
Expendltus Category           ICB        IS       NS      LCS     Indhridual  Other    Total Cost
1. Goods                           3,245,000  594,000  192,400                                 4,031,400
_   (2,950,000  (540,000) (173,000)                            (3,663,000)
2. Consultant services                                           19,000   1,154,300       _    1,173,300
_        -         -  (15,000' (1,055,000)          (1,070,000)
3. Training & study tours                                                            273,700    273,700
_        -         -        -          - (250,000)   (250,000)
4. PCO Incremental operational cost                                                   21,600     21,600
.: - -__(17,000)  (17,000)
Total                3,245,000  594,000  192,400   19,000   1,154,300  295,300   5,500,000
__ (2,950,000_ (540,000) (173,000)  (15,000' (1,055,000) (267,000J  (5,000,000)
Notes:
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA. AU costs Indude contingences.
ICB: Inteffational Competitive Bidding
IS: International Shopping
NS: Nabonal Shopping
LCS: Least Based Selection
Ofter:
Training & study tours: Plans to be prepared by PlUs and deared by IDA.
Incremental cost Project related cost of rommunication and document disseminabon.
- 51 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arran ements (US$)
Procurement Method                              Individuals        LCS        Total
Component 1: Intemational banking experts               860,000         -      860,000
(780,000)        -     (780,000)
Component 2: Intemational advisor to BOM                 88,500         -       88,500
(80,000)        -      (80,000)
Component 3: Intemational advisors to MOFE              172,000         -      172,000
(162,000)        -     (162,000)
PCO operation: Project Coordinator                       33,800         -       33,800
(33,000)        -      (33,000)
-    19,000        19,000
PCO operation: Project auditor                                -    (15,000)     (15,000)
Total                                                      1,173,300
(1,070,000)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
All costs include contingencies.
LCS stands for least cost selection.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category     Contract Value      Procurement      Contracts Subject
Threshold (US$)        Method          to Prior Review
(US$)
Goods
a) Switch/Clearing       >100,000             ICB              2,950,000
House
b) Network/System        <100,000              IS                N/A
management
software
c) Network               <50,000              NS                 N/A
hardware
Consultant Services
a) Component 1-3,          N/A             Individuals         1,055,000
Project
Coordinator
b) Project auditor         N/A                LCS               15,000
Total Prior Review        .                                     4,020,000
ICB: International Competitive Bidding.
IS: International Shopping
NS: National Shopping
LCS: Least Cost Selection.
- 52 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made on the traditional system (from the Special
Account with reimbursements made based on full documentation and against Statements of
Expenditure (SOE), and direct payments from the Credit Account. Disbursement of the proceeds
of the Credit would be made against the categories shown in Table C below. The breakdowns by
Project Component can be fotnd in Annex 5: Financial Summary. Goods Category includes
hardware and software.
Disbursements for goods would be 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of ex-factory cost for
local expenditures, and 90% of other items procured locally. The expenditures of consulting
services are financed at 94%. Training expenditures would be reimbursed at 100%. Incremental
operating expenses other than government staff salaries of the PCO would be reimbursed at 90%.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Credit               Financing Percentage
Allocation
(US$)
1. Consultant services             998,000                    94%
2. Goods                          3,663,000 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90%/, of local
expenditures for other items procured locally.
3. Training & study tours          250,000                    100%
4. PCO incremental operational ccest  17,000                   90%
5. Unallocated                      72,000
Total Project Cost        5,500,000
Total IDA Financing        5,000,000
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made an the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for: (i)
consultant contracts below US$ 50,000 equivalent, (ii) goods contracts below US$ 50,000
equivalent, (iii) actual expenses against training activities, and (iv) incremental operating costs of
the PCO. For expenditures incurred on the basis of SOEs, all records and supporting
documentation for those SOEs will be maintained by the PCO and other Project Implementing
Units for review by IDA and by independent auditors. Contracts above these limits will be fully
documented upon request for withdrawal.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation and disbursements, two special accounts will be
established under terms and condlitions acceptable to IDA. The MOFE is to open and operate a
Special Account (SA-A) in a cornmercial bank acceptable to IDA for Component 1, Commercial
Bank Risk Management, Component 3, Savings Bank Resolution, and the eligible expenses of the
PCO. The BOM will establish and operate a Special Account (SA-B) at a commercial bank
- 53 -



acceptable to the Bank for Component 2, Payments System Modernization, The special accounts
will be denominated in US dollars, with authorized allocation of US$ 100,000 for each SA. The
special accounts will be replenished monthly to assure liquidity of funds, and all replenishment
applications will be accompanied by bank statements from the depository bank showing all
transactions during the month and the statement of Bank Reconciliation.
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
A Financial Management Review conducted by a financial management specialist has been cleared
by the RFMA. As a result of this review, a time-bound action plan to address outstanding
financial management issues has been prepared and agreed with the MOFE. Upon adequately
addressing the outstanding issues, the Project will meet Bank financial management requirements
as stated in OP/BP 10.02. the text of this assessment is included in Annex 8: Documents in
Project File.
Institutional arrangements: They are the same as those for the project implementation (see
Section C.4: Institutional Arrangements).
Project accounting and internal controls: A Project Financial Management Manual (the Manual)
will be prepared by the PCO, to strengthen financial management capacity and ensure that
accounting principles and internal control policies and procedures are consistently complied. The
Manual will be included in the finalized Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The a draft Manual
will be submitted for review by IDA by negotiations and the Manual will be finalized and formally
adopted by the PCO before the Board date.
Internal controls encompass authorization, segregation of incompatible functions, adequate
maintenance of supporting documents and project audits. The Manual will document detailed
control policies and procedures. Project monitoring via regular supervision missions will
encompass review of project accounting, reporting and disbursement activities. These internal
control features will be complemented by annual audit required by IDA during the life of the
Project.
Financial monitoring reports (FMRs): In accordance with Financial Monitoring Reports:
Guidelines to Staff issued by the Financial Management, Operational Services, and Procurement
Sector Boards on November 30, 2001, the IDA discussed and agreed with the MOFE, the format
and content of the following Financial Monitoring Reports. The FMRs will be submitted to IDA
on a quarterly basis.
* Sources and Uses of Funds
* Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Activity
* Physical Progress Report
* Procurement Reports
- 54 -



Proiect audit: IDA requires that an annual audit of project accounts be carnied out by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and audit report must be submitted within six months of
the end of each fiscal year, with separate opinion on Statement of Expenditures and Special
Account. It was agreed that an auditor with prior experience with World Bank project will be
appointed by project effectiveiness and audit costs will be financed under the Project. It was also
agreed that the same audit firm will conduct annual audit of the Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit. The audit Terms of Reference will be subject to IDA's prior review and clearance.
Action Plan:
Action           Responsible Entity       Completion Date
1. Draft Financial       MOFE, IDA                 Before Negotiation
Management Manual for                              (completed)
IDA review.
2. Counterpart Project   MOEF, PIUs                Before Negotiation
Office established                                (completed)
3. Staff training on project  MOFE, IDA            Before Effectiveness
financial management and
disbursement
4. Project Coordinator   MOFE                      Before Effectiveness
appointed 
5. Audit TOR reviewed and  IDA, MOFE               Before Effectiveness
auditor appointed                                  (Auditor TOR agreed)
6. Financial Management  MOFE                      Before Effectiveness
Manual finalized and
adopted
- 55 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MONGOLIA: Financial Capacity Development Project
Project Schedule                               'PIared                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     14                         14
First Bank mission (identification)            10/09/2000                 10/09/2000
Appraisal mission departure                   03/01/2002                  03/01/2002
Negotiations                                  04/23/2002                  05/02/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 10/31/2002
Prepared by:
Xiaofeng Hua, Task Team Leader
Preparation assistance:
Government of Japan-financed PHRD Grant (TF026728), executed by the government, financed
the costs of international and local consultant services in (a) assessment of commercial bank risk
management and selection of participating banks, (b) review of existing payments systems and
preparation of a payments system modernization solution, (c) assessment of Savings Bank and
preparation of a resolution proposal.
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                    Speciality
Xiaofeng Hua                     Task Team Leader
Nancy Chen                       Financial Management & Commercial Bank Financial Reporting and
Accounting
Charlie Garrigues                Payments Systems
Robert Keppler                   Payments Systems
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                  Country Counsel
R. Gopalkrishnan                 Procurement
Rosa Muleta                      Disbursement
Paul Murgatroyd                  Peer Reviewer: Overall project design & Savings Bank resolution
Vince Polizatto                  Peer Reviewer: Commercial Bank Risk Management
Ahmet Soylemezoglu               Peer Reviewer: Payments System Modernization
Tsolmon Bat-Ochir                Operations Office, Ulaanbaatar Office
Adelma Bowrin                    Program Assistant
- 56 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MONGOLIA: Financial Capacity Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plari
-- Project Implementation Plan, Volume 1, Text, May 14, 2002
-- Project Implementation Plan, Volume, 2, Appendixes, May 14, 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
-- Mongolia Financial Sector Review, October 11, 1999 (Final draft)
-- Mission aide memoirs dated, August 11, 2001, December 3, 2001, and March 20, 2002
-- Mongolian Banking System: Major Regulatory Changes, October 1, 2001
-- Project financial management assessment, January 16, 2002 (Final)
-- Project procurement capacity assessment, March 26, 2002 (Final draft)
C. Other
-- MOFE/BOM:The Action Plan for Financial Sector Strengthening (Final)
-- Paul Vonckx:      Commercial Bank Risk Management in Mongolia (Final)
Assessments of Anod Bank, Mongol Post Bank and Zoos Bank, respectively
(Final)
Diagnostic Review and Resolution Plan of Savings Bank of Mongolia (Final)
-- Lachlan Fleming:  Report on Payments System Modernization in Mongolia (Final), including
Assessment of current situation
Proposed solution
Cost recovery analysis
Job descriptions of task teak
-- Bold Magvan:      Mongolian Financial Sector Market Review (Final draft)
*Including electronic files
- 57 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MONGOLIA: Financial Capacity Development Project
May 15, 2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Oiginal Amount In US$ Milolns                              disbursements-
ProJect ID    FY   Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                        Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P040907       2001 EeWgy Sec                                                  30.00                                    29.03       210       0.00
P068071       2000 Flnandal Sedor Adjustnet Credit                            32.00                                     19.06     10.50      0.00
P051855        1998 Fliscl Technkal Asaistance                                 S.00                                     329        3.40     -0.02
P049789       1999 PrIvate SecorDevelopment Credit                            12.00                                     5.21       3.60      0.00
P056200       2001 Transport Development                                      34.00                                    28.77      10.40      0.00
P036052       1998 Utanbeeter Services                                        16.70                                     4.82       5.10      1.67
P07400        2002 Mongolia Legal Refo.. Project                               5.00                                     4.99       0.00      0.00
Total:       0.00     134.70                           0.00      95.16     35.10       1.65
MONGOLIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of January 31, 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval               Company                                Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic      Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic
1997                      SEF G&M     Leather                     1.05        0.2          0          0       1.05       0.2           0         0
Total Portfolio:                 1.05        0.2          0           0       1.05       0.2           0         0
Approvals Pending Cormmitment
FY Approval              Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
2001                      SEF XAC                                    0.40             0            0            0
Total Pending Commitment                    0.40            0             0            0
- 58 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MONGOLIA: Flnancial Capacity Development Project
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Asia &    LOw-
Mongolla    Pacfic  Income      Developmentdlanond-
2000
Populatfon, mid-year (mlitons)                      2.4     1,853    2,459                ufe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atas method, USS)                  390      1,060      420
GNI (Atlas metldroo, US$ bitllons)                 0.95     1.964    1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                      1.1       1.1      1.9
Laborforce tX)                                      1.9       1.4      2.4     GNI                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (iatod year available, 1994-00)                           capita                     enrollment
Poverty (6 of population bebw natonal povet,y o/ne)  36
Urban ppuLation (% ofi tol popubAson)                64       35        32
Ufe expectancy at birth 0ears)                       67       69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live b/rths)             58       35        77
Child mainutrition (X of children under 5)           13       13                    Access to Improved water soure
Access to an Improved water source ( of poDldatf on)  60      75        76
fllteracy (% ofpopu/elbn age 15+)                    37       14        38
Gross pnmaryenrollment (%X school-agppuAeUon)        88       119       96           -     Mogols
Male                                               86       121      102                 Low4ncome group
Female                                            91        121      86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERI' TRENDS
1980     1990     1999      2000
Economic radioa
GOP (US$ billions)                          ..       ..      0.91     0.97
Gross domestic lnvestmentGDP                 ..    38.1      28.5     30.0
Exports ot goods end servicea/GDP            ..    24.0      61.2     65.5                    Trade
Gross domestfc savingstGDP                   ..     9.2      15.1     13.6
Gross national savings/GDP                   ..      ..      14.8     12.9
Current account balancetGDP                  ..      ..     -13.7    -17.1     Domest                    in
Interest payments/GDP                       ..       ..       1.0      1.0     sa   s c                   Investment
Total deabGDP                                ..      ..      98.4     88.6     savings
Total debt servicte/xports                  ..       ..       4.6      4.5
Present value of debt/GDP                    ..      ..      55.9
Present valiue of debt/exports              ..       ..      89.1
Indebtedness
1980-9l 1990-00     1999      2000  2000-04
(average annual gnewth)
GDP                                6.-t     1.0     3.2       1.1      4.0            -Mongolia
GDP per capita                     3.'     -0.3     2.3       0.3      2.0                  Low-income group
ExportsotS oods and services        ..      ..      4.7      12.8      3.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000     Growth of Investmnt and GDP (%)
(% ot GDP)
Agriculture                                 .-     17.4      37.0      333     15
Industry                                           30.4      20.7      18.5    t.
Manufacturing                                                5.9      5.4     5-
Services                                           52.2      42.4      48.2     o
Private consumption                          .      8.4      66.8      68.3           9       s       sa   sf    oo
General government consumption               ..    32.4      18.1      20.0                   GDI    -OGDP
Imports of goods and services                ..    52.9      74.6     81.9
(average annual growth)                1980-0   1990-00      1999     2000     Growth of exports and Import (%)
Awiculture                                  1.4     3.2       4.2       1.6    15
industry                                   6.6     -0.5       1.1      1.1    ls
Manufacturing                               ..      ..      -2.7      3.2
Services                                   8.4      0.1       3.4      0.6     o 
Private consumpfton                         ..       ..       1.4      4.8           ss    "    rr   s3    d     o
General govemment consumpfton                ..      ..      -5.0      62      4
Gross domesUc investment                    ..       ..      -3.6      12.4           -Expots       _   Imports
Imports of goods and services                ..      ..      -2.4      11.4
Note: 2000 data are pretiminary esfimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with ia Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wil
be Incomplete.
- 59 -



Mongolia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic pdees                                                                ao.
(% change)
Consumerprices                                        .,     100       95      6o
Imprict GDP deflalor                                0.0       9.7     11.6    40
Government finance                                                             20
(X of GDP, inludes current grants)                                             oT
Currant revenue                              ..    54 1         ..      ..           9s     9     97   9s 8        o
Current budget balance                       .      -15                               -    GDP dellator  -C PC
Overall swrplus/defidct                      ..   -14.5     -11.9     -9.9
TRADE
(USS millions)                            1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                 661       454      529
Copper                                            260       119
Meat                                                5
Manufactures
Total imports (Cif)                                 924       567      679
Food
Fuel and energy
Capital goods
54   99   96   97   90    9   0
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                        ..         .        .                 Exporn       Imr
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP I%)
(US$ mWill/ons)
Exports of goods and services                       493       554      635      s
Imports of goods and services                 ..   1,101      675      794
Resource balance                                   -608      -121     -159                         97      NM
Net income                                    .      44       -10      -15       -i
Net current transfers                         .       0         7        8     10
Current acount balance                       ..    -651      -124     -166
Financing items (net)                         .     598       140      224
Changes in net reserves                              53       -16      -58    -20 -
Memio:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..      157      18d
Conversion rate (DEC, locallfUS$)             ..      ..   1,021.9  1,076.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990     1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Compolltion of 2000 debt (US$ mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          .       ..      891      859
IBRD                                       ..       ..        0        0                  F 17 G.14
IDA                                                         130      137                             B 137
Total debt service                            ..      ..       26       29
IBRD                                                 '                                         t .c 50
IDA                                        ..          ..                       E33
Composition of net resource flows
Official Wants                             ..       ..       49
Official creditors                         ..       .       151       46
Private creditors                                             -3      -3
Foreign direct investment                  ..       ..       30
Portfolio equity                           ..       ..        0
World Bank program
Commibmants                                ..       ..       12       32      A-IBRD                    E - Bgiteral
Disbursements                               .       ..       14       14      d-IDA    0-O tiarmuLtetatel  F-Prtvate
Prinipal repayments                        ..       ..        0        0      C - IMF                   G - Shortaerm
Netflows                                    .       ,,       14       14
Interest pavments                           -                 1        1
Net transfers                              ..       ..       13       13
Development Economics                                                                                          11/5/01
- 60 -



- 61 -



