Report No. PID10713
Project Name             Mongolia-Financial Capacity Development (@)
Project
Region                   East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                   Financial Sector Development
Project ID               MNPE71023
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF MONGOLIA
Implementing Agency
Address MOFE, BOM, PARTICIPATING BANKS
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Address: Government Bldg-2, Negdsen
Undestnii St. 5/1, Ulaanbaatar-210646,
Mongolia
Contact Person: Mr. Bayasgalan, Director,
Policy Coordination Dept.
Tel: (976-11) 32-2712
Fax: (976-11) 32-0247
Bank of Mongolia
Address: Baga toiruu-9, Ulaanbaatar-46,
Mongolia
Contact Person: Mr. D. Enhhuyag, Director,
Monetary Policy Dept.
Fax: (976-11) 31-1471
Email: enhhuyag@monglebank.mn
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        April 4, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      April 4, 2002
Bank Approval Date       May 30, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Introduction. Mongolia started a peaceful transition to democracy in the
early 1990s following the collapse of the Soviet bloc. Since then, the
Government of Mongolia (GOM) has adopted a policy stance that encourages
economic liberalization. Today Mongolia's economic landscape is quite
different from the Soviet model of the past. With donor support, Mongolia
has established the basic legal framework for a commercial banking system
(see Annex 8: Documents in Project File, Mongolia Banking System: Major
Regulatory Changes). However, the pace of reforms has been uneven, and
the economy remains vulnerable to external shocks.Sector structure. The
financial system is still evolving to support the development of a
market-based economy. Total financial sector assets are about US$276
million, as compared to a GDP of over US$1 billion. Gross loans to total
assets account for 45 percent. Loans to Government (excluding Bank
Restructuring Bonds) account for half percent of total assets, and are 11
percent if the BR-Bonds are included. Loans to public sector is 3 percent
of the total assets. Loans to private sector has increased to 38 percent
of total assets. Fixed assets are 6 percent of the total assets. There
are 16 commercial banks, but many of them are start-ups (See Annex 8:



Documents in the Project File: Mongolia Financial Sector Market Review).
Of the four large banks, the state-owned Trade and Development Bank (TDB)
is the largest, accounting for about 34 percent of total assets. Golomt
Bank is the largest private bank, accounting for 14 percent of total
assets. The assets of the state-owned Savings Bank amount to 14 percent
of total assets, but are largely composed of non-tradable government
bonds. The Agricultural Bank has the most extensive branch network, and
is currently under a management contract arrangement between the Ministry
of Finance and Economy (the owner representative) and the Bank of Mongolia
(the receiver), and a foreign consulting firm. Non-bank financial
institutions are at an early stage of development. The stock market is
small and illiquid, and insurance and leasing businesses are
embryonic.Main issues. Despite the initiatives to strengthen and
liberalize the financial system, the banking sector has experienced
recurring crises and failures, most notably in 1994, 1996 and 1998/99.
While the sector appeared to recover substantially after the crises, these
recoveries turned out to be transitory.      The 1999 Financial Sector
Review, the 2000 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) identify among
the policy distortions and structural weaknesses, the following issues
during this turbulent period.Eroded public confidence in the financial
system and low level of monetization. The deposit base of the banking
sector was small, accounting for 159 of GDP.    The basic measures of
financial depth were quite low: the ratio of M2 to GDP is 25w, while the
ratio of claims on nongovernment sector to GDP was only 7 percent. Of the
total net banking assets, 19 percent were non-negotiable Bank
Restructuring Bonds (BR-Bonds). On the one hand, the economy was over
banked (12-14 banks for a population of 2.6 million), leading to losses
and inefficiency. On the other, a large portion of transactions between
enterprises were in the form of barter trade, and households operated on a
cash economy parallel to the formal financial system.Crowding out of
private sector development. The real interest rates in Mongolia remained
at an unsustainable levels: for local currency, the average lending rate
in 1999-2000 was 28 percent, and the average deposit rate 18 percent; for
US dollar loans and deposits, the average rates were 23 percent and 4
percent. A number of factors contributed to the problem, including high
expectations of currency devaluation, excess government demand for credit,
and huge explicit and implicit NPLs. Total credit to private sector
accounted for only 4 percent of GDP.High Non performing loans. Reported
Non Performing Loans (NPLs) stood at 19 percent of total loans. Most of
the NPLs were incurred due to poor credit risk management. While the
official NPLs number appeared to be quite stable, there were incidences of
"hidden" NPLs due to liberal assets classification practices and
accounting entries. All loans in Mongolia were collateralized, but banks
found it difficult to verify the legality and value of the collateral.
When a borrower defaulted, it was difficult for the creditor to repossess
and liquidate the asset. Slow assets recovery. Of the US$35 million
impaired assets taken over by the Mongolia Assets Recovery Agency (MARA)
in 1997, only about 14t were recovered by 2000.     In 2001 another US$10
million liquidated assets were transferred to MARA from the closed ITI
Bank and Reconstruction Bank. It was estimated that most of those assets
have little residual value if marked to market.            Weak financial
sector infrastructure. Underlining the above issues is the weak
infrastructure of the banking system.Banking laws and regulations are
often copied from different legal systems (e.g. a continental law civil
code and a common law securities law), although similar in words to those
- 2 -



effective in the developed economies. The synergy, conflicts and
applicability of those legal documents are not clearly understood. There
are loopholes regarding the relationship between lenders and borrowers and
private property right transfers. Banks do not have the power to adopt
readily enforceable default conditions and remedies. Training of bankers
and borrowers of the laws are limited. Law administration and enforcement
are weak. The accounting practices are yet to comply with the
International Accounting Standards (IAS). While Mongolia adopted the IAS
in a law about nine years ago, training in IAS are seriously lagging
behind. While the new amendments to the Accounting Law effective April
2002 require all business entities to maintain their accounts on the
accrual basis, it will take time for many enterprises to switch from the
cash based accounting. There is evidence that interim bank accounts are
not in compliance with IAS, and therefore may not be much use as a basis
for good management decisions. Banking decisions are based on personal
references and physical evidence as financial statements are either
unavailable or unreliable. In cases where financial statements are
provided, they are prepared for tax purposes, and therefore don not
provide sufficient information for credit analysis.Prudential regulation
and supervision need to be further strengthened. Although BOM has come a
long way to bring the prudential regulation and supervision closer to the
Basel Core Principles, there are discrepancies in off-site reporting
requirements, CAMEL and CAEL rating systems, and on-site examination
procedures. Licensing of new banks tends to rely heavily on minimum
capital requirement, without thorough review of the suitability of senior
management and board directors, and the quality of business plan including
market analysis and financial projections. The regulatory framework and
supervision of Non Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs) are weak.Corporate
governance and internal control are very weak. Bank boards are yet to
become effective governors of the institutions. Their role and
accountability are not clearly understood. Personal liability of bank
board members and senior managers for gross negligence is either missing
in laws or not enforced.    Internal control is equated to internal audit.
There is a lack of control environment which entails senior bank
management commitment. The internal control offices in banks are not
independent of the management and do not have the mandate and skills to
monitor bank-wide risks.Human resource development policies do not support
a culture of accountability and responsibility. There are few measurement
techniques to evaluate performance. As good performers are not
sufficiently rewarded, poor performers have no worry of being penalized.
Mongolian banks have received lots of training supported by donors, but
training activities tend to be on an ad hoc or opportunistic basis without
management follow up to ensure implementation. There is the need to
develop and implement a core curriculum of systemic, phased-in training
activities that are closely related with banks daily operations.Recent
developments. The year 2001 witnessed some positive developments in the
sector. Public confidence in the banking system started to recover as the
total deposits as a percentage of GDP increased to 20 percent from 15
percent in the previous year. Cash outside the system as a percentage of
M2 dropped to 33 percent as compared to 39 percent in 2000. Real interest
rate for local currency loans was 30 percent, but that of local currency
deposits dropped to 13 percent; real interest rates for US dollar loans
and deposits declined to 11 percent and 2 percent. NPLs declined from 23
percent of total loans in 2000 to about 8 percent, thanks mainly to
write-offs, better collection of overdue loans and a large portion of new
-3 -



loans that were yet to become problematic. The privatization process of
Trade and Development Bank was initiated, and a foreign investor is
expected to acquire a controlling share-holding by June 2002. IFC and ADB
may also invest in this bank. The AgBank met the BOM capital adequacy
ratio, and became profitable under the foreign management team. Most
banks showed strong growth in profitability due to the loan growth and
high interest spread. An amendment to a relevant law gives banks powers
over the execution of collateral. This legal improvement and the pent-up
demand for credit in the economy were said to be the main causes of the
100 percent growth in total loans. Provisions on prompt corrective action
are incorporated into relevant law and regulations, and the new BOM
regulation on assets classifications places 50 percent weight on
qualitative analysis. As the MOFE started to redeem the BR-Bonds under
the FSAC framework, the bonds accounted for 10 percent of total banking
assets, a drop of 54 percent from that of 2000. MARA also made progress:
of the total NPLs transferred to the agency: about 11 percent recovered at
full value, 38 percent received favorable court decisions, 2 percent to be
written off soon, and 49 percent remain to be recovered or disposed of.
While the improvements are encouraging, the fundamental deficiencies
described above prove difficult to remove. The rapid growth of loan
outstanding in 2001 is clearly not sustainable and there is a significant
risk that the weak banking infrastructure will be unable to adequately
monitor and control the risks. Because of the dramatic increase in new
loans, loan loss reserves to total loans declined by 66 percent. Note
that Mongolia banks provide for loan loss reserves only on the NPLs
classified according to the BOM norms, and have little experience in
forward-looking, qualitative analysis. Total capital as a percentage of
total assets remain almost unchanged between 13-14 percent. Another trend
that calls for close attention is the rapid increase in the number of
start-up institutions in the sector. Over the last 8 months, the central
bank licensed 4 commercial banks and 17 NBFIs in an already overbanked
economy. In terms of the number of banks per 100,000 people the country
ranked 54th in a group of 108 countries in 1999 (see Section B.3 for
further comparison). Sector issues to be addressed. The project seeks to
address financial infrastructure weaknesses in the two critical areas:
credit risk management and payments system modernization. The project
will also assist the government to deal with potential systemic risks by
developing and implementing a Savings Bank resolution strategy and
plan.Credit risk management. The recurrent banking crisis and the
existing systemic fragility can be attributed to a large extend to poor
credit risk management in the banking sector. Loans are made by personal
references, without sufficient borrower and market analysis. There is
excessive reliance on collaterals which are not marked to market. There is
a lack of forward looking cash flow analysis. Loan supervision is of a
cursory nature. Bank management often fails to control and audit the
credit process effectively. In many banks the credit review and portfolio
management functions are missing. In recent years progress has been made
in providing basic infrastructure for credit risk management. The BOM now
requires that banks to submit loan information on all borrowers on a
monthly basis to its Credit Information Bureau (CIB), which provides
information on outstanding loans and classification of such loans,
although it only covers the Ulaanbaatar (the Capital) area borrowers.
Banks can also check for prior liens on proposed collateral with the
Immovable Property Registration Agency managed by the Ministry of
Justice. However, compliance with the registration requirements is not
- 4 -



steady and the information may or may not be factored in when lending
decisions are made. As the banking system is coming out of the recent
crisis, the commercial banks in Mongolia have become increasingly exposed
to credit risk. Because SME loans are gaining a high profile, many banks
plan to offer this type of loan, although in general they do not have much
experience with the product. The increase in high risk assets in the form
of loans can result in an overall erosion in capital adequacy,
profitability and liquidity. As the business of bank, lending determines
a bank's quality and performance; and good lending policies and procedures
are a key element in the framework for proper management of a banking
institution. A bank's organization structure is also critical to its
successful management of risks, particularly in the loan portfolio. The
improvement in credit risk management would no doubt help to reduce
systemic risks, and improve banking system profitability and
efficiency.Payment System Modernization. Recent development in the area
have been focused on the development of a real-time clearing and
settlement system integrated into the core general ledger of the Bank of
Mongolia (BOM) which also maintains the settlement accounts of the
commercial banks. This BOM clearing and settlement system operates as a
"Periodic Gross Settlement System", and works by each bank periodically
dialling in and submitting files of payments which are processed one at a
time across the bank's settlement accounts according to standard RTGS
credit availability rules. Supporting advice received from the IMF during
the past year has concentrated on the issues relating to the
implementation of monetary policy targets and thus this advice has
focussed on the efficiency of the interbank funds management and control,
and the budget control and liquidity management duties of the Ministry of
Finance - as a subset of the management of liquidity in the short run
economy. Importantly, this earlier advice has correctly identified a
number of relevant legal and central bank management powers and
authorities which need to be institutionalized, exercised, and observed by
all relevant parties -especially in regard to risk identification and
management. Noticeably absent from this advice has been a more
thorough-going and integrated solution for the transfer of funds by
non-cash payments in all sectors of the economy - including:Interbank
transfers,Disbursement and collection of government payments and
revenues,Business payments and collections, andConsumer payments.There are
several critical impediments to the development of an efficient and
widespread payments system in Mongolia. Mongolia is a sparsely populated
country with an average per capita income of US$40-90 per month. This
does not reduce the demand for payment services, but it does dictate that
any solution must be cheap and have acceptable low "per transaction"
costs. The eroded confidence in banks also affected the development of
the payments system. The banking systems currently in use in Mongolia are
all running on PC platforms. In total, there are no more than 150,000 -
200,000 commercial bank accounts in Mongolia, and yet all non-cash
payments must ultimately be posted to one of these accounts. The PC
banking systems are relatively unsophisticated, but have proved entirely
adequate to date where most banking transactions either start or complete
as a cash transaction. With the introduction and widespread use of
non-cash payment instruments, banking systems will need to become more
sophisticated with online links between branches being highly desirable.
This future target is achievable given that there are a number of
initiatives, one of it funded by the ADB, to upgrade banking application
systems and network services. These developments will increase the
- 5-



sophistication of the banking systems operating in the commercial banks in
Mongolia - which greatly increases the potential for introducing new
non-cash payment instruments. The network options available for online
banking and related non-cash payments are widening rapidly with the only
effective constraint being price levels. Technical skills in the market
are limited but willing and able within a relatively narrow range of
technical options. Networking skills are scarce but the available
resources are reasonably well organized into a few local Information
Technology services companies. In mitigation of these constraints, the
concentration of investment in low end, small systems and industry
standard Microsoft products and related skill sets is suitable for most IT
demands in Mongolia - but some widening of these skills to cover other
internationally widespread technology is appropriate. At the operational
level, increased knowledge and skills with operational utilities such as
system and network management tools and "Help Desk" facilities is
mandatory.Cash is both the major payment medium in Mongolia as well as
being the major store of value. Official BOM statistics show that 37
percent of M2 is held as cash, which translates as MNT116.3 billion
(US$100 million) in cash circulating as outside the banking system.
Recent developments in the start-up of card-based services have added
card-based payments to the available payments instruments. The BOM
interbank payment order used in the real-time interbank clearing and
settlement system is the most recent form of a non-cash payment order
which is supported by appropriate regulation. However, this payment
instrument can only be used for interbank funds transfers between the Head
Offices of the banks and the BOM. In addition, different banks use
different formats and internal instructions for making inter-branch
payments, and for taking various remittance and transfer instructions from
customers. It should be also noted that government budget entities use a
standard system of authorization letters and forms which act entirely like
a payment order. All of these forms of non-cash payment would benefit
from the standardization of the associated forms to ensure that such forms
are easy to recognize, store, and process through manual or automatic
systems. In addition, the contents of such forms should comply with
certain minimum criteria to ensure that sufficient details are carried on
the forms to enable them to be converted uniquely to electronic format,
and to comply with the legal provisions of Mongolia relating to non-cash
value transfers. Modernization of payment systems and payments
instruments in Mongolia is a high priority matter, as is increased
confidence in the banking system. It would reduce the economy's
dependency on cash through easier and more convenient access to and use of
the banking system. It would also facilitate the use of the available
liquidity in the banking sector without increasing banking sector risks.
Savings Bank Resolution. Savings Bank was created as a specialized
deposit taking institution following the 1996 banking crisis. All
household deposits of two insolvent state banks were transferred to the
bank, and the government placed the same amount of BR-Bonds with the
bank. These bonds were non-tradable IOUs, and did not have the standard
features of a government security. In 2001, the MOFE "standardized" the
BR-Bonds held by the bank, which now have a floating coupon rate that is
linked to the central bank bills (monthly average yield of the 91-day
BOM-Bills + a premium). Interest payments are made monthly and the
maturity is five years. The bank also received a limited lending license
from the BOM last year, which puts a cap on the annual loan growth. The
loan portfolio stands about 2.5 percent of total assets and 3 percent of
- 6 -



total deposits. The bank earned some profit and paid income tax for the
first time in 2001, as it benefited from low deposit rates, little or no
provision for loan losses, and low operating expenses due to the lack of a
normal banking infrastructure. It should be noted a large portion of the
bank's revenue came from the interest income on the BR-Bonds. While the
savings institution is a bank in name only, it is extremely sensitive to
interest rate risk. It suffered losses in the past when the government
could not service its debt on time. A stress test conducted by IMF staff
last November reveals that one percent reduction in the interest rate of
government securities would immediately cause a 10 percent loss of
capital. Meanwhile one percent increase in deposit rate would lead to a 9
percent capital loss. Because of its importance to system stability, the
government has kept Saving Bank open, despite budget impacts (interest
payments amount to over 2 percent of GDP, and non-cash transfers about 6.5
percent of GDP). As the government has committed itself to replace the
BR-Bonds with tradeable securities under the FSAC framework, the MOFE
started to retire the bonds in 2001. This would have significant
implications for the savings institution, as it holds more than 55 percent
of the total BR-Bonds outstanding. While it is too risky for the bank to
rapidly expand its loan portfolio, the retirement of the higher-earning
bonds would further squeeze the bank's thin profitability. The BR-Bonds
currently earn 16 percent, while 3-month T-Bills yield between 8-13
percent and the same maturity BOM-Bills about 14 percent. The MOFE wanted
to redeem MNT3 billion in 2001, but ended up with only MNT250 million
retired because Savings Bank could not invest the would-be additional
cash for good returns.The government has realized that the status quo
cannot be maintained, and is committed to adopt a time-bound privatization
action plan under the FSAC framework. There can be different options for
Savings Bank resolution. Immediate wholesale privatization is not
possible since no outside strategic investors would be interested in the
bank's present form, and the bank may be too large for any domestic
investor with banking experience to take on a controlling majority. While
the government has ruled out this option, there are discussions of
transforming the savings institution into a full-fledged commercial bank
or merge it with the AgBank. The disadvantages of those options clearly
outweigh the advantages. Savings Bank has little experience in lending
and the basic institutional infrastructure for commercial banking is
missing. A rapid expansion of the loan portfolio is too risky while a
gradual approach may take too long. Above all the economy is overbanked
and does not need another weak full-service bank at present. As the
following table shows, in terms of number of banks Mongolia has 5 times
more banks than such economies as Turkey and South Africa. By contrast,
Mongolia's per capita GDP is about 13 percent of that of Turkey and 10
percent of that of South Africa; and its financial sector accounts for
about 30 percent of GDP as compared to the ratio of 70 percent in Turkey
and 90 percent in South Africa. # of banks per 100,000
peoplePopulationPer capital GDP(USD)Total financial assets to GDP(W)
MongoliaO.5 2,398,000 39027South
AfricaO.142,800,9923,12069TurkeyO.165,311,0003,9859OSource: Year 2000 data
from BOM, World Bank, IMF.It seems that a controlled divestiture of a
large portion of the bank's assets and liabilities may be a better option
to alleviate the budget burden and resolve the Savings Bank problem. Once
the bank has a balance sheet structure similar to that of a typical
Mongolian commercial bank (e.g. a loan-to-deposit ratio of 60 percent), it
may become privatize-able, or can be taken over by a stronger private
-7 -



bank. However, since the bank is regarded by many small depositors as the
safe haven, strong leadership by the MOFE is necessary to centralize and
coordinate the process of finding a solution.Government strategy. Since
early 1990s, successive governments have attempted to develop the banking
sector. Considering where the government started, the progress is
impressive. In 1998, the then government began implementing a new round
of financial sector reforms that are focused on:Establishment of a
financial sector infrastructure (banking skills, accounting standards,
bank resolution procedures, etc.);Consolidation of the banking
system;Divestiture of government ownership in TDB (the largest
bank);Development of effective regulation and supervision;Improvement of
payments system; andTimely servicing of government bonds.The current
government which came to power in June 2000 has repeatedly expressed its
commitment to the strategy. Meanwhile, in its Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) the government states that the structural
adjustments will continue in the banking sector in the next 4 years,
including:Shift to indirect monetary instruments,Strengthening of bank
supervision,Privatization of state-owned banks,Tightened legal procedures
regarding commercial contract enforcement, and Improved financial
intermediation.
2. Objectives
The project is to support institutional capacity building of the Mongolian
banking sector to reduce systemic risks and enhance financial
intermediation through (i) improved commercial bank risk management; (ii)
modernization of payment systems and instruments; and (iii) Savings Bank
resolution.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
As described above, policy distortions and structural problems exist in
every corner of Mongolia's banking system. The capacity gaps are
monstrous. The temptation is to address all the issues under one project,
but this would be a recipe for failure. The achievement of the project
objectives is a function of the overall legal and regulatory framework and
the financial sector infrastructure. Recently, with the unfolding of
several major donor programs in the sector, progress has been observed in
improving the overall banking environment. The amendment to the Civil
Code provides banks the powers to posses and dispose of collateral without
lengthy court procedures. The BOM requires banks to register all loans
with basic borrower information at its Credit Information Bureau, and the
upgrading of the system is underway as a component of the on-going Private
Sector Development Project. The BOM has also strengthened its prudential
regulations and supervision of the banks. The new assets classification
regulations place 50t weighting on qualitative factors, which is a good
improvement. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has
identified areas of noncompliance with the International Accounting
Standards (IAS), and a new operation is being considered to address the
issues. In addition, many of the policy and structural issues, such as
monetary policy instruments, judiciary reforms and education, banking
system upgrading, are covered by other on-going Bank operations or other
donor programs (see Section D. 2 below). The project therefore focuses on
the three areas that have received less technical assistance and are the
key to the achievement of the Government's financial sector reform
objectives as described in the FSAC policy matrix and the I-PRSP. The
focused scope of the project also takes into consideration the limited
- 8 -



capacity of the government.The Bank's involvement has helped to bring
about many structural changes in Mongolia's banking sector since early
1990s. The operation with the most far-reaching impact on the policy
environment of the banking system is the FSAC. However, a good policy
framework needs solid structure and building blocks to support it. The
FCDP project, which is closely linked with the FSAC, is to assist the
government and the banks to build institutional capacity in three key
areas of financial sector infrastructure and stability, so that the
policies adopted under the FSAC may be turned into realities. At the
institutional level, the commercial bank risk management component builds
on the outcome of previous bank projects, but is more focused on
developing and implementing a risk management framework and the
internalization of good policies and procedures. In the areas of payments
system modernization and Savings Bank resolution, the government is yet to
receive comprehensive assistance, and the benefits and outputs of those
two components are described in the previous sections. In general, the
project enhances the strategic objectives of the Bank's support program,
and is a major operation in the area of banking sector capacity building.
4. Description
The project consists of the following components. Component 1: Commercial
Bank Risk Management is to assist the participating banks in
re-engineering their lending process and creating a strong credit culture.
It would enhance the effectiveness of commercial banks' credit risk
management and compliance with Bank of Mongolia (BOM) regulations and
international banking practices. At the present three commercial banks
(Anod Bank, Mongol Post Bank and Zoos Bank) are eligible based on the
agreed selection criteria (see Annex 2: Detailed Project Description). An
international specialist will be retained to work full time in a senior
management position such as head of credit or chairman of ALCO, who
reports directly to the bank's CEO. Allocations are also made for
short-term staff secondment in foreign commercial banks and risk
management systems upgrading.Component 2: Payments System Modernization is
to assure the availability of an appropriate set of cost effective payment
systems and payment instruments that satisfy the evolving needs of all
sectors of the economy with particular emphasis on the needs of
government, business, and individual consumers to make and receive
non-cash payments. The component will assist the BOM to a) acquire and
install a Switch/Clearing House processor and software, and adopt related
procedures and operating rules; b) develop new payment instruments and the
legal and regulatory framework to support their use; and c) establish a
Shared Financial Network with multiple functions for the banking sector.
The estimated cost of the Switch/Clearing House accounts for a major
portion of the Credit. Allocations are also made to fund the hardware and
software costs of the network management software utility and related
"Help Desk" software. Related costs of expert technical assistance are
also covered. On the job training are to be provided by the supplier and
the consultants. There is a small budget for a study tour by the BOM
staff to selected countries where a Switch system has been in operation
for years.The objective of Component 3: Savings Bank Resolution is to
assist the government to develop and implement a carefully managed
divestiture process of Savings Bank, to diversify systemic risks and
reduce government subsidies. Adoption of a time-bound action plan for
Savings Bank privatization is a condition for the release of the second
FSAC tranche, and is in conformity with the announced government policy of
-9-



withdrawing state ownership from the banking sector. However, with the
current size and structure of its balance sheet, Savings Bank is not
privatize-able. The controlled divestiture process would reduce the bank'
size by about 80-90 percent, and result in a balance sheet similar to that
of a typical Mongolian commercial bank (a loan to deposit rate of 60
percent). The bank can then be privatized, or taken over by a stronger
private bank. Under this component the MOFE will hire international
advisors to develop and implement (i) a workable BR-Bonds
redemption/replacement plan, and (ii) a divestiture program to auction
carefully packaged assets and liabilities. A small allowance is provided
for a study tour to selected countries with rich experience in bank
restructuring/resolution.The project is expected to bring about the
following benefits on the macro-level:Improved competition in the banking
sector through strengthened credit risk management of selected
private-owned banks;Enhanced banking system liquidity management through
upgraded payments system and a shared financial network;Extended access to
formal banking services through new electronic payments
arrangements;Reduced systemic risk and improved government cash management
through Savings Bank resolution; andEnhanced human capital in the key
areas of the banking sector.Specific benefits would include:Component
l:For each participating banks, development of a clear understanding of
risks the bank is undertaking, the level of risk the bank wishes to assume
in the broadest terms and the structuring of loans consistent with the
level of risk. Development of a culture of individual responsibility and
accountability for loan quality.Establishment of a Credit Review Unit
whose exclusive task would be to monitor the on-going quality of the loan
portfolio. Development of policies and procedures for credit and other
risk management as appropriate. Improvement in rating loans on a
qualitative basis.Development of a credit system which can be adjusted to
reflect market conditions and changed environment.Acquired skills to
assess credit risk and identify an emerging problem with a borrower's
ability to repay.Component 2:A shared financial network that promotes
"Real Time Gross Settlement", secondary financial markets, and
cost-efficient investment in terminal infrastructure.A common low cost
payments processing system that reduces the transaction load on the BOM's
own processing environment.Development and enforcement of standards for
payments orders and new electronic instruments that comply with the
international practices.Adoption of common standards for electronic
security and banking operational procedures and a supporting legal
framework.Improved effectiveness of the ongoing development initiatives
financed by other donor programs (e.g. the ADB program of six-bank banking
software, and the IMF program of Treasury Single Account).Component
3:Implementation of a redemption/replacement plan for the government to
retire the costly BR-Bonds that takes into account the government's cash
flow situation, the market demand and banks liquidity position, and the
BOM's monetary policy operation.Preparation and implementation of a
carefully packaged divestiture process.Experience in dealing with
distressed financial institutions.There would be two target groups.
Professional staff in the participating banks, the BOM and the MOFE would
upgrade their skills through "learning by doing" with international
specialists. The public, especially small and medium private owned
enterprises and entrepreneurs, would have better access to formal banking
services.
5. Financing
- 10 -



Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $0.50
IBRD
IDA                      $5.00
Total Project Cost       $5.50
6. Implementation
Project implementation is expected to take about three years. The
implementation agencies include the currently eligible three participating
banks for the Credit Risk Management Component; the BOM for the Payments
System Modernization Component; and the MOFE for the Savings Bank
Resolution Component. A Project Steering Committee (PSC), headed by the
Deputy Minister of MOFE and composed of the directors of Sector
Development Management and Coordination Department (SDMCD) and Treasury
Department of MOFE; and the First Deputy Governor and the directors of
Accounting and Automation Department and Supervision Department of BOM,
has been established. The PSC will provide policy direction and guidance
regarding overall project implementation, evaluate project outcomes and
resolve major project coordination issues. A Project Coordination Office
(PCO) will be established before negotiations to serve as the secretariat
of the PSC and be responsible for day-to-day administrative support to the
project, e.g. routine communications between the Borrower and IDA and
between the Project Implementation Units (PIU) and the PSC; and project
file keeping; and organization of the required audits of project
accounts. The PCO will be headed by the director of SDMCD and supported
by a full time Project Coordinator. A MOFE staff will work part time for
the PCO. The BOM is to establish a five-member task team as the PIU by
Board date, and the office of the chief executive of each of the
participating bank will serve as the PIU under the first component.
7. Sustainability
While Mongolia's road to a sound, well-functioning banking system is
likely to be bumpy, it is unlikely that the direction would be reversed.
The memories of the previous banking crisis are so fresh with the public,
that it is in the interest of the government to stabilize the banking
system and assure improved financial intermediation. The project is first
of all based on this critical assumption. The on-going donor programs,
including IDA's FSAC, IMF's PRGF, ADB's SFPL and other bilateral programs,
all have this common goal and provide collectively a variety of leverage
to assist the government to complete the country's transition to well
functioning market economy. The implementation of these programs are
monitored by regular supervision missions, and are reviewed at annual
donor coordination meetings. New programs under consideration, such as
IDA's Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC), may further ensure that
the government remains committed to achieving its medium-term financial
sector reform objectives and private sector led economic development, as
well as enhancing its overall implementation capacity especially in
regards to its poverty reduction strategy and financial sector
reform.Against this overall background, a number of the key features in
the project design may enhance the likelihood of the sustainability of the
project's benefits: The selection of the participating banks has taken
into account the representation of an important segment of Mongolian
banks, i.e. the fast-growing, medium-sized, private-owned banks, so that
improved risk management in participating banks can have a ripple effect
in the banking sector.The recommended approach towards Savings Bank
- 11 -



resolution may help the government contain down-side risks while removing
a potential trigger of a systemic banking crisis.The envisaged payments
system modernization architecture whilst being based on Mongolia's current
technology environment, has the capacity to support an expanded set of
market applications through modular technical upgrading at a later stage.
Meanwhile it would result in a national payments system that is compatible
both with medium term Mongolian needs and well established systems and
standards typical of developed economies.The proposed ownership and
organizational structure of the new payments system would ensure market
fairness and technic neutrality.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Mongolia's financial sector has received quite a lot of technical
assistance from donors. The more effective donor programs such as the
UNDP micro-finance program share the common features of simplicity in
project design and local ownership. In less effective cases,
international assistance tend to be in the form of general assessments or
ad hoc consultant visits. Some times the perceived international best
practice is introduced without careful analysis of the required legal,
economic and institutional environment. The weak administration capacity
and the interagency coordination issues also affect the performance of
donor programs, especially those which span over a wide range of policy
and structural areas. The 1998 Bank portfolio review, and the Client
Feedback Survey confirm these lessons, as do the more recent consultations
among donors. The project design has taken into account of those
lessons. It targets specific, identifiable and measurable benefits. The
project design also stresses Borrower ownership of the project and
participation of major stakeholders. For instance under the commercial
bank risk management component, for each participating bank, an
international expert will be engaged to serve as a full-time senior bank
manager reporting directly to the CEO. This is to avoid the
marginalization of international experts which typically happens should
they play only a consulting role. It can also enhance knowledge transfer
between international experts and local staff. The project implementation
programs of the other components also reflect this focus.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        N/A
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Xiaofeng Hua
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-2463
Fax:   (202) 522-3094
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
- 12 -



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
April 26, 2002.
- 13 -



