Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3659 MOG 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
(Financial Capacity Development Project) 
 
between 
 
MONGOLIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
Dated  September 05, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3659 MOG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 05, 2002, between MONGOLIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Bank of Mongolia” and the acronym “BOM” mean the Borrower’s 
central bank, and any successor thereto. 
(b) 
“BOM Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b)(ii) of this Agreement. 
(c) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” mean each 
report prepared in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(e)  
“MOFE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Economy, and 
any successor thereto. 
(f) 
“MOFE Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b)(i) of this Agreement. 
(g) 
“Participating Banks” means the commercial banks selected under 
criteria satisfactory to the Association to participate in Part A of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and “Participating 
Bank” means any of the Participating Banks. 
(h) 
“Project Implementation Unit” and “PIU” mean the Project 
Implementation Unit to be established by each of the Participating Banks and by BOM in 
respect of their Respective Parts of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(i) 
“Project Coordination Office” means the office established and 
maintained by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(j) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the entity established and 
maintained by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(k) 
“Respective Part of the Project” means: (i) in respect of BOM, Part B of 
the Project; and (ii) in respect of each Participating Bank, Project activities under Part A 
of the Project. 
(l) 
“Savings Bank” means the specialized state-owned deposit institution 
established and operating pursuant to the Government of Mongolia’s Decree of May 
1996. 
(m) 
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the BOM Special Account and 
the MOFE Special Account; and “Special Account” means either of said Special 
Accounts. 
(n) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means an agreement entered into between 
the Borrower and a Participating Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
4(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(o) 
“Switch/Clearing House System” means the operational system, 
including equipment for data processing and communications, and operational rules and 
procedures, to be established under Part B of the Project to facilitate the electronic 
transfer of funds and settlement of payments among the participants thereto. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: 
(i) 
a special account for the purposes of Parts A, C and D of the 
Project (the MOFE Special Account); and 
(ii) 
a special account for the purposes of Part B of the Project (the 
BOM Special Account).  
Deposits into, and payments out of each respective Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
Page  5
-
4
-
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2012 and ending May 15, 2042. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2022 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to 
in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  6
-
5
-
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out, 
and cause to be carried out, Part A of the Project through the Participating Banks; (ii) 
carry out, and cause to be carried out, Part B of the Project through Bank of Mongolia; 
and (iii) carry out Parts C and D of the Project through its Ministry of Finance and 
Economy; all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, management, financial and banking standards and practices, and shall 
provide, and cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
For purposes of paragraph (a)(i) of this Section and Part A of the Project, 
the Borrower shall make available to each Participating Bank part of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(b), (2)(b) and (3)(b) set forth in the 
table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to 
the Association which will include the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount to be made available shall be the 
equivalent in Dollars (determined on the date, or respective 
dates, of withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of 
the  MOFE Special Account, as the case may be) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account 
of the cost of goods and services required for said Participating 
Bank’s Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.   
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered in 
Dollars, over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of five (5) years.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate of three percent (3%) 
per annum. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  8
-
7
-
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and a report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has engaged a Project Coordinator under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the Borrower has adopted a financial management manual satisfactory to 
the Association in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(c) 
the Borrower has entered into subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to 
the Association, with at least two Participating Banks, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(d) 
BOM and the two Participating Banks referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
Section 5.01 have established their respective Project Implementation Units, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
Page  10
-
9
-
(e) 
the Project Coordinator and the manager and staff of each PIU 
established under paragraph (d) of this Section 5.01 have completed a course of training 
satisfactory to the Association on project management, including without limitation, on 
financial management and procurement; and 
 
(f) 
the Borrower has appointed an independent auditor acceptable to the 
Association, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to carry out the 
audit of Project accounts in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement.  
Section 5.02. The following is specified as additional matters, within the meaning 
of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions 
to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have 
been duly executed by the Borrower and the Participating Banks, and are legally binding 
upon the Borrower and the Participating Banks in accordance with their respective terms. 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
 
United Nations Street 
–
5
a
Ulaanbaatar - 210646 
 
Mongolia 
 
Facsimile:   
 
 
976- 11- 320247 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 (1-202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
or 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
MONGOLIA 
 
By 
 /s/ 
Chultemiin 
Ulaan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By 
 
/s/ 
Saha Dhevan Meyanathan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures to be 
Financed
(1)   Goods: 
 
(a) Under Part A of the 
Project                   
 
(b) Under Part B of the 
Project 
 
(c) Under Other Parts  
of the Project 
 
240,000  
 
2,660,000       
 
3,000   
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost) and 90%  of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally 
(2)  Consultants’ services: 
 
(a) Under Part A of the 
Project 
 
(b)  Under Part B of the 
Project  
 
(c)  Under other Parts of 
the Project 
 
(d) for the audit of        
Project accounts
 
621,000 
 
40,000 
 
129,000 
 
15,000 
94% 
Page  13
-
12
-
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures to be 
Financed
(3) Training and study 
tours: 
 
(a) Under Part A of the 
Project 
 
(b) Under Part B of the  
Project 
 
(c) Under other Parts of 
the Project 
 
160,000 
 
20,000 
 
35,000 
 
100% 
(4)  Incremental Operating 
Costs   
 
17,000 90% 
 
(5)   Unallocated 
 
60,000 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL                                       4,000,000 
 
======= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures 
incurred by the Project Coordination Office in managing and coordinating the 
implementation of the Project, including expenditures for office consumables and 
communication, and for the dissemination of Project documents, which expenditures 
would not have been incurred absent the Project, but excluding salaries. 
Page  14
-
13
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals under Category (3), in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 20,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after February 1, 2002.   
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 e
quivalent each; (b) consultant’s services under contracts with 
firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (c) training and study tours; and (d) 
incremental operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to strengthen its banking 
sector by reducing systemic risks and enhancing financial intermediation through: (i) the 
improvement of commercial bank risk management; (ii) the modernization of payment 
systems and instruments; and (iii) the resolution of Savings Bank.   
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
PART A
:
Improvement of Commercial Bank Risk Management
Carrying out of a program to assist selected commercial banks to strengthen their 
policies, procedures and institutional structures, and to develop appropriate strategy to 
assess and manage their credit risk and monitor the quality of their portfolio, through the 
provision of consultants’ services and training, and the upgrading of systems related to 
risk management.   
PART B
:
Modernization of Payment Systems and Instruments 
Establishment of a Switch/Clearing House system to serve Bank of Mongolia, 
financial institutions, merchants and users of non-cash payments; development of new 
non-cash payment instruments; and establishment of a shared financial network with 
multiple functions for the banking sector, through the provision and installation of 
electronic systems and related software, and the provision of consultants’ services and 
training. 
PART C
:
Savings Bank Resolution
Development of a plan for the redemption or replacement of Bank Restructuring 
Bonds, and formulation and implementation of a controlled divestiture program for 
Savings Bank, through the provision of consultants’ services and training.  
 
Page  16
-
15
-
PART D
:
Implementation Support
Strengthening o
f
the Borrower’s Project implementation capacity, including 
financial management and audit, through the provision of consultants’ services, training 
and equipment. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2005. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement  
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
International and National Shopping
(a) Goods under contract costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $594,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures; and (b) goods under contract 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$193,000 equivalent, may be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures; all 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for the audit of Project accounts may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,145,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection o
f
all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to all contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the period of Project implementation, maintain:  
(a) 
the Project Steering Committee, with representation from the Ministry of 
Finance and Economy and from Bank of Mongolia, to provide policy direction and 
guidance, evaluate the Project outcome, and ensure inter-agency coordination in the 
implementation of the Project; and 
(b) 
the Project Coordination Office, under the direction of a qualified and 
experienced manager, staffed with competent personnel in sufficient numbers, including 
a
Project Coordinator appointed under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
and provided with adequate resources, said Office to serve as a secretariat to the Project 
Steering Committee and be responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a) 
 in respect of Part B of the Project, Bank of Mongolia establish and, 
throughout the period of Project implementation, maintain a Project Implementation Unit, 
under the direction of qualified and experienced managers, staffed with competent 
personnel in sufficient numbers, including a network specialist, a switch specialist, a 
specialist on payment instruments, and a Project administrator, all under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association, and provided with adequate resources, to manage 
the implementation of its Respective Part of the Project; and  
(b) 
in respect of Part A of the Project, each Participating Bank establish and, 
thereafter throughout the period of Project implementation, maintain a Project 
Implementation Unit, under the direction of qualified and experienced managers, staffed 
with competent personnel in sufficient numbers, and provided with adequate resources, to 
manage its Respective Part of the Project.  
3. 
The Borrower: (a) shall, through the Project Coordination Office, prepare and 
adopt a financial management manual satisfactory to the Association, setting forth 
policies and detailed procedures for internal control, flow of funds, accounting and 
auditing, and maintenance of records; and (b) shall not amend, waive or abrogate any 
provisions thereof without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
Project Implementation 
4. 
In respect of Part A of the Project, the Borrower: 
Page  22
-
21
-
(a) 
shall select Participating Banks in accordance with criteria satisfactory to 
the Association, which shall include, without limitation, criteria related to their total 
assets size, limits on non-performing loans, capital adequacy ratio, degree of compliance 
with Bank of Mongolia prudential requirements, and ownership diversification; 
 
(b) 
shall enter into a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Association 
with each Participating Bank so selected, whereby said Participating Bank undertakes to: 
(i) 
carry out its Respective Part of the Project with diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate administrative, 
management and financial standards, and commercial banking 
practices;  
(ii) 
take, and cause to be taken, all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable it to perform such obligations;  
(iii) 
not take, or permit to be taken, any action which would prevent 
or interfere with the performance of such obligations; 
(iv) 
procure goods and services necessary for its Respective Part of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
(v) 
by January 31 of each year, commencing in 2003, furnish to the 
Association an annual training plan for its staff in credit risk 
management, including secondment of selected staff to 
commercial banks outside of Mongolia, and thereafter 
implement such training plan as shall have been agreed to by the 
Association; 
(vi) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, its 
operations and financial condition; 
(vii) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
(viii) 
furnish to the Borrower and the Association, as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each fiscal year: (A) certified copies of said financial 
Page  23
-
22
-
statements and accounts for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as 
the Borrower or the Association shall have reasonably requested;  
(ix) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower  and the Association all such 
other information concerning said records, accounts and 
financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Borrower 
or the Association shall reasonably request;  
(x) 
take, and cause to be taken, all action necessary or appropriate to 
maintain its eligibility in accordance with the criteria for 
participation in the Project referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of 
this paragraph 4; 
(xi) 
promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of its Respective Part of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or its 
continuing compliance with the eligibility criteria set forth in 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 4, including any failure to 
comply with the prudential regulations issued by Bank of 
Mongolia; and 
(xii) 
at the request of the Borrower or the Association, review with 
the Borrower and the Association, the quarterly reports prepared 
by Bank of Mongolia in respect of said Participating Bank’s 
compliance with Bank of Mongolia’s prudential regulations and 
any required corrective actions thereunder; and 
(c) 
shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
5. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year, 
commencing in 2003 a quarterly progress report, each such report integrating the results 
Page  24
-
23
-
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of 
this paragraph 5, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the  
preceding calendar quarter and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
promptly review with the Association each of the reports referred to in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 5 and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report an
d
the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means: (i) Categories (1)(a), (1)(c), (2)(a), 
(2)(c), 2(d), (3)(a), (3)(c) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, in respect of Parts A, C and D of the Project; and (ii) Categories (1)(b), (2)(b) 
and (3)(b)  in respect of Part B of the Project. 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to: (i) 
$100,000 in respect of the MOFE Special Account for Parts A, C and D of the Project; 
and (ii) an amount equivalent to $100,000 in respect of the BOM Special Account for 
Part B of the Project, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
Page  26
-
25
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
Page  27
-
26
-
General Conditions with respect to the respective Parts of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Parts  of the Project shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
