                    Document of
                The World Bank




                                             Report No: ICR00001346



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IDA-36590)



                      ON A

                     CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION
          (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                     TO THE

          GOVERNMENT OF MONGOLIA

                      FOR A

   FINANCIAL CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                  March 31, 2010




           Finance and Private Sector Unit
              PREM Sector Department
          China and Mongolia Country Unit
            East Asia and Pacific Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2010)

                           Currency Unit = MNT
                          MNT 1.00 = US$ 0.00074
                          US$ 1.00 = MNT 1,357

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 - December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB        Asian Development Bank
BR-Bonds   Bank Restructuring Bonds
BOM        Bank of Mongolia
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
FCDP       Financial Capacity Development Project
FSAC       Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
HVP        High-value payments
IDA        International Development Association
I-PRSP     Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LVP        Low-value payments
MOFE       Ministry of Finance and Economy
NBFIs      Non-bank financial institutions
NPLs       Nonperforming Loans
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PHRD       Policy and Human Resource Development (Japan)
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QSA        Quality of Supervision Assessment
RTGS       Real Time Gross Settlement
SCC        Switch Clearing Center


                        Vice President: James W. Adams
                      Country Director: Klaus Rohland
                      Country Manager: Arshad M. Sayed
                       Sector Manager: Tunc Uyanik
                   Project Team Leader: Sameer Goyal
                     ICR Team Leader: Sameer Goyal
                                           MONGOLIA
                               Financial Capacity Development Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 35
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 36
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Financial Capacity
Country:                Mongolia                Project Name:
                                                                          Development Project
Project ID:             P071023                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-36590
ICR Date:               04/07/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:                 MONGOLIA
Original Total
                        XDR 4.0M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 3.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 3.3M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Mongol Post Bank
 Zoos Bank
 Bank of Mongolia
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/12/2001     Effectiveness:          12/10/2002           12/10/2002
                                                                                  03/28/2006
Appraisal:            03/01/2002     Restructuring(s):                            03/29/2007
                                                                                  09/26/2008
Approval:             06/11/2002     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                03/31/2006           06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower Moderately Satisfactory



                                                i
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                               30                  30
Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement                  70                  70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other financial and private sector development                        33                  33
Standards and financial reporting                                     33                  33
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 34                  34

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager:            Tunc Tahsin Uyanik                   Homi Kharas
Project Team Leader:       Sameer Goyal                         Xiaofeng Hua
ICR Team Leader:           Sameer Goyal
ICR Primary Author:        Sameer Goyal


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To strengthen the Mongolian banking sector to reduce systemic risks and enhance
financial intermediation through (i) improved commercial banking risk management;(ii)
modernization of payments systems and instruments; and(iii) controlled process of
Savings Bank resolution.



                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project development objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                                 Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                    approval          Target         Completion or
                                                  documents)          Values          Target Years
                  New risk management framework established and implemented in participating
Indicator 1 :
                  banks.
                                              New risk
                                                                                  Achieved. New risk
                                              management
                                                                                  management
                                              framework
Value             There was no framework                                          frameworks were
                                              established in both
quantitative or   of risk management in                            NA             established in the
                                              participating
Qualitative)      participating banks.                                            two participating
                                              banks. All credit
                                                                                  banks and staff
                                              officers participate
                                                                                  trained.
                                              in one training.
Date achieved     10/31/2002                  03/31/2007           03/31/2007     03/31/2007
                  While no baseline values were set for this PDO, only two banks participated in
Comments
                  the project--one less than anticipated. This was primarily due to the Government
(incl. %
                  being unable to identify a 3rd bank which met all the project eligibility
achievement)
                  requirements.
Indicator 2 :     Improved financial position and performance of participating banks.
                                              Ratio of
                                              nonperforming
                                              loans (NPLs) to
                                                                                  Not Achieved.
                                              Total Loans of
                                                                                  Financial position
                                              participating banks
                  Participating banks were                                        and performance of
                                              not to exceed 10
                  challenged to maintain                                          both participating
                                              percent throughout
Value             relatively good                                                 banks improved
                                              project
quantitative or   performance due to                               NA             during engagement
                                              implementation
Qualitative)      weaknesses in risk                                              with them (upto
                                              period.
                  management and                                                  March 2007).
                                              Credit/portfolio
                  increased competition.                                          However, serious
                                              risk function
                                                                                  problems surfaced
                                              reorganized within
                                                                                  in 2008-9.
                                              six months after
                                              Credit
                                              effectiveness.
Date achieved     10/31/2002                  03/31/2007           03/31/2007     03/31/2007
                  The two participating banks met project and BOM prudential requirements
Comments
                  throughout the project. However, both these banks suffered significant asset
(incl. %
                  quality problems during the recent crisis-one failed, the other is in M&A
achievement)
                  discussions.
Indicator 3 :     Safe and efficient online transactions between end-users and their banks.
Value             Majority of financial       An increasingly
                                                                   NA             Achieved.
quantitative or   transactions were cash- large portion of



                                                 iii
Qualitative)      based.                      financial
                                              transactions
                                              processed through
                                              the new system in
                                              a safe and efficient
                                              way. New
                                              regulation to be
                                              adopted.
Date achieved     10/31/2002                  06/30/2009           06/30/2009   06/30/2009
                  The establishment of the SCC and RTGS systems at the BOM has increased the
Comments
                  use of online transactions. The current and smooth operation of the system on a
(incl. %
                  daily basis and the increasing number of transactions handled is evidence of
achievement)
                  achievement.
                  IT cost-effectively used to support compliance with international best practices
Indicator 4 :     and realization of sought-after payment system and other information system
                  related benefits.
                  Different and costly IT The SSC is
                  systems were installed or increasing used
                  considered in the banking and avoided
Value
                  sector which created        duplicate
quantitative or                                                                 Achieved.
                  problems for                investment in IT-
Qualitative)
                  compatibility and           based banking
                  compliance with             operations
                  international standards. systems.
Date achieved     10/31/2002                  06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
                  The SCC and RTGS are open to all banks and are compatible with international
Comments
                  payment systems and standards. SCC is testing POS/ATM shared network with
(incl. %
                  3 banks and has agreement with the remaining bank with it own network
achievement)
                  (Golomt Bank) to join in mid 2010.
                  Timely preparation and implementation of a resolution plan for Savings Bank
Indicator 5 :
                  satisfactory to IDA.
                                                                                Not achieved.
                                              Time-bound                        Preperation of the
                                              resolution plan                   action plan was
                                              submitted within                  satisfactory,
Value
                  Savings Bank was state- six months of                         however,
quantitative or
                  owned.                      effectiveness;                    implementation was
Qualitative)
                                              implementation                    not, evident by less
                                              plan initiated with               than ideal final
                                              in six months.                    outcome of the
                                                                                privatization.
Date achieved     10/31/2002                  03/31/2007                        12/31/2006
Comments          Preparation of the action plan was satisfactory. However, the plan was however
(incl. %          never fully implemented. After a period of delay, the Government followed an
achievement)      alternate plan and privatized the bank in 2006.




                                                 iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                  There are no intermediate outcome indicators as the project was appraised in
Indicator 1 :     May 2002 when the current format for results monitoring and evaluation was not
                  in effect.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/27/2002          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/26/2002          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     05/14/2003          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.20
  4     10/01/2003          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.20
  5     12/04/2003          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.25
  6     06/02/2004          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.62
  7     12/27/2004          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.97
  8     06/17/2005          Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              2.67
  9     12/21/2005          Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              3.58
 10     08/03/2006      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              4.14
 11     01/23/2008      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              4.43
 12     06/17/2009      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              4.76


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of payment systems
 03/28/2006       N        S     MS           3.72
                                                     component
                                                     Extension of payment systems
 03/29/2007       N       MS     MS           4.26
                                                     component.


                                                  v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of payment systems
 09/26/2008       N       MS     MS           4.39
                                                     component.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Background. Mongolia began its transition to a market economy in the early 1990s,
following the collapse of the Soviet bloc. At this time, the newly democratic government
quickly launched a program to stabilize its economy through the implementation of
currency reform, price and wage liberalization, privatization of small and medium
industries, and changes in laws and regulations to enable private sector development.

Despite the initiatives to strengthen and liberalize the financial system, however, the
banking sector experienced recurring crises and failures, most notably in 1994, 1996 and
1998-99. While the sector appeared to recover substantially after the crises, these
recoveries turned out to be transitory, as the banking system remained shallow, unstable,
and an obstacle to long term economic development and poverty reduction in Mongolia.
In 1999, a World Bank Financial Sector Review and other financial sector assessments
identified the following policy distortions and structural weaknesses in the economy
during this turbulent period:

      There was low level of monetization (deposits accounted for 15 percent of GDP)
       and public confidence in the financial system was eroded.
      There was crowding out of private sector development as total credit to the
       private sector accounted for only 4 percent of GDP.
      Real interest rates remained at unsustainable levels (local currency, the average
       lending rate in 1999-2000 was 28 percent) due to high expectations of currency
       devaluation, excess government demand for credit, and huge explicit and implicit
       nonperforming loans (NPLs). Reported NPLs stood at 19 percent of total loans.
      Financial sector infrastructure was weak and the banking sector faced obstacles to
       development from underdeveloped legal, regulatory and supervisory framework
       and weak accounting standards, corporate governance and systems of internal
       control. Financial sector faced critical weaknesses in the banking sector as a result
       of weak commercial bank credit practices and an outdated and inefficient
       payment system.

Rationale for Bank assistance. To address some of these financial sector weaknesses the
Government of Mongolia began implementing a new round of financial sector reforms in
1998. The World Bank (the Bank) agreed to support the Government in its efforts. A key
part of that the Bank's 1998 Country Assistance Strategy was the development of the
banking sector overall and building institutional capacity in the sector. The 's 1998
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) further outlined the importance of
financial sector development, including the importance of privatizing state owned banks
and improving financial intermediation. The Financial Capacity Development Project
(FCDP) formed a key part of the package because it specifically aimed to address key
institutional capacity building issues that held back the country's economic development:
the lack of a sound and efficient banking system. The specific areas to be addressed were

                                             1
selected following a strategic review of other international donor activities and also
following extensive consultations with the Government on priorities and technical
assistance gaps.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

Project development objectives. The original project objectives1 were to strengthen the
banking sector by reducing systemic risks and enhancing financial intermediation
through:
    (a) improved commercial banking risk management;
    (b) modernization of payments systems and instruments; and
    (c) a controlled process of Savings Bank resolution.

The following key outcome indicators were identified at appraisal:
    New risk management framework established and implemented in participating
       banks.
    Improved financial position and performance of participating banks.
    Safe and efficient online transactions between end-users and their banks.
    Information technology used in a cost-effective manner to support compliance
       with best international practice and realization of the sought after benefits of the
       payments system and other related information systems.
    Overload of the existing Bank of Mongolia (BOM) payments system alleviated.
    Timely preparation and implementation of a resolution plan for Savings Bank
       satisfactory to the International Development Association (IDA).

These indicators and achievements of outcomes are further discussed in Section F of the
data sheet. Also see Section 2.3 for a discussion on the appropriateness of the key sector,
outcome and output indicators.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The project development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project targeted two groups in particular: (a) professional staff in the participating
banks, the BOM and the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) who would be able
to upgrade their banking and credit skills; and (b) the public, especially households and
small and medium private-owned enterprises and entrepreneurs, who would have

1
 The project development objectives presented here are those which appear in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA). The DCA language is preferred to that of the Project Appraisal Document because it
better captures the objectives and therefore sharpens the evaluation in this report.


                                                  2
improved access to formal banking services. The key macro level benefits indentified in
the PAD are outlined below:
     Improved competition in the banking sector through strengthened credit risk
      management of selected private-owned banks;
     Enhanced banking system liquidity management through an upgraded payments
      system and a shared financial network;
     Extended access to formal banking services through new electronic payment
      arrangements;
     Reduced systemic risk and improved government cash management through
      Savings Bank resolution; and
     Enhanced human capital in the key areas of the banking sector.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had three components:

Component 1: Commercial Bank Risk Management
The objective of this component was to assist participating banks in re-engineering their
lending processes and creating a strong credit culture. It aimed to enhance the
effectiveness of commercial banks'credit risk management and compliance with BOM
regulations and international banking practices. Three commercial banks (Anod bank,
Mongol Post Bank, and Zoos Bank) were assessed for their eligibility (prior to project
approval) as participating banks, and final selection was made before Credit
effectiveness.

Component 2: Payment Systems Modernization
The objective of this component was to assure the availability of an appropriate set of
cost-effective payments systems and payment instruments that satisfy the evolving needs
of all sectors of the economy with particular emphasis on the needs of government,
business, and individual consumers to make and receive non-cash payments. The
component aimed to assist the BOM to (a) acquire and install a Switch Clearing House
processor and software, and adopt related procedures and operating rules; (b) develop
new payment instruments and the legal and regulatory framework to support their use;
and (c) establish a Shared Financial Network with multiple functions for the banking
sector.

Component 3: Savings Bank Resolution
The objective of this component was to assist the Government to develop and implement
a carefully managed divestiture process of the Savings Bank, to diversify systemic risks,
and reduce government subsidies. The credit also included funds for a study tour to
selected countries with rich experience in bank restructuring/resolution.

1.6 Revised Components

The project components were not revised during the life of the loan.


                                            3
1.7 Other significant changes

The project was extended three times beyond the original closing date of March 31, 2006.
The first extension was approved by the Bank's Country Director, and the second and
third by the Regional Vice President.

Extension 1 to March 31, 2007. As the project neared its closing date of March 31, 2006,
implementation progress was moderately satisfactory for all three components; however,
disbursement had been slower than originally anticipated. The project was extended for
one year at the Government's request to complete the remaining planned activities.

Extension 2 to September 30, 2008. The project was extended a second time in 2007 for
1.5 years to September 30, 2008, primarily to complete the payment system
modernization component, which had been delayed due to management changes at the
BOM. The other two components were not extended a second time due to limited
implementation progress. Specifically, for the bank risk management component, the
Government was unable to identify a third participating bank as planned, and
implementation of the remaining planned activities for the other two participating banks
had slowed down.. For the Savings Bank component, the Government had already
privatized the Bank in 2006 so there was no further need for support. Though the
activities were closed for the two components, the funds were not cancelled to allow the
resources to be available for any potential reallocated if the payment systems component
required additional funding.

Extension 3 to June 30, 2009.The Government requested and received a third extension
for nine months until June 30, 2009 to complete the Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
upgrade of the payment system modernization component. This extension allowed the
Government to complete implementation of the payment system in line with project
objectives and to maximize the developmental impact.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project preparation, design and quality at entry were satisfactory overall, with only a
few shortcomings. Overall, this sound preparation and comprehensive background
analysis contributed positively to project implementation.

Soundness of the background analysis, adequacy of design. The soundness of the
background analysis was good. The conclusions were based on comprehensive
assessments of the financial sector, building on both the government's own analyses and
those of the Bank and other international donors. The background analysis drew heavily
on the Bank's economic and sector work conducted for the Mongolia Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC) project, which the FCDP designed explicitly to complement
and support.



                                            4
Incorporation of lessons. The project team made considerable efforts to incorporate
lessons from previous financial sector projects particularly by recognizing capacity
limitations within the Government and BOM and keeping the project narrow in scope.
Previous financial sector projects had shown the potential risks related to trying to
accomplish too much though institutions with weak institutional capacity.

Assessment of risks. In general, the project team correctly identified the main risks in the
project. Factors such as degree of political commitment to the project and weak
institutional capacity to management a multifaceted project--which were identified as
moderate risks--did in fact delay project implementation. The team was also correct in
identifying as substantial the risk of the Government failing to promptly implement the
resolution program and action plan related to the Savings Bank. In hindsight, the project
could have better identified the risk of depending on management and financial
performance of a few individual banks to achieve the long term impact. The project
targeted the second tier banks (Zoos Bank and Mongol Post bank) during project design
based on the view that these were the banks that had the greatest potential to grow, and
that could benefit most substantially from technical assistance. However, as a result of
the severe economic downturn, these were also the banks that ran into the financial
difficulties, which suggests that there was perhaps only limited impact of the project on
these banks.

Adequacy of the government performance. Government performance during project
preparation was generally good with senior management of the MOFE directly involved
in preparation and project design. The proposed solution for the payments systems
modernization was also well received by top management of the BOM.

Quality at entry. This ICR finds the quality of entry to be moderately satisfactory, as did
a panel of reviewers during a Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) conducted in
November 2006. The QSA found that while the loan objectives were consistent with the
Government's own and the Bank's assistance priorities (as reflected both in the 1998
Country Assistance Strategy (Report No: 17604-MOG), as well as the Government's
2001 Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP, Report No: 22691-MOG), the
overall readiness for implementation for two of the three components was weak.
Specifically, it found that under the bank risk management component, a third
participating bank could not be firmly identified. The panel also concluded that the
Government's commitment to the Savings Bank component was not firmly established,
since a new government came into power shortly after the project was negotiated and its
commitment to the component was not confirmed sufficiently. By contrast, the QSA also
concluded that the project's main component, the payments system modernization, was
very well designed and prepared. The component successfully targeted a key weakness in
the financial sector infrastructure and a gap that was not being addressed sufficiently by
the Bank of Mongolia, or with support of other international donors. The interventions
proposed were narrow and well-defined upfront.




                                             5
2.2 Implementation

Despite some important achievements, the overall implementation of the project was
uneven across the three components.

      The bank risk management component had some successes early on with two
       participating banks developing better credit and lending procedure and practices
       (preparing and adopting risk management manuals for the first time) and training
       their staff. However, the component could not be expanded to the extent
       originally anticipated so that it could have a positive demonstration effect in the
       sector. Even though the two banks participated in the FCDP to upgrading their
       risk management procedures, in hindsight, this was not enough to prevent them
       from getting into serious portfolio quality difficulties with the onset of the
       financial crisis in 2008. Disbursement and further activity under this component
       was stopped in March 2007.

      The project provided support for the privatization of the Savings Bank in the early
       preparation phase. After some delay, the Government completed the privatization
       at the end of 2006 without further support of the project. Disbursement and
       further activity under this component was stopped in March 2007.

      Although the implementation of the payments systems component was expanded
       and prolonged, it ultimately exceeded expectations through the implementation of
       a Swich Clearing Center (SCC) as well as a new Real Time Gross Settlement
       (RTGS) system at the BOM.

Implementation of the project was affected by a several factors. These included:

      Clear and relevant objectives and a shared vision. The fact that the project had
       clear and important project objectives helped keep the project on track throughout
       its seven years of implementation (particularly in the early stages) and contributed
       to the overall achievements, in particular with regard to the largest component on
       payment systems modernization. Common vision among key partners, especially
       for payment system component, also facilitated procurement of the payment
       systems at a later date.

      Fast growth of the banking sector and the recent banking crisis. Mid-way through
       the project, the banking sector grew very rapidly (see Box 1). This further
       reinforced the need for a strong payment system and enhanced risk management
       practices in the banking system. The payment system component was able to
       adapt by implementing the SCC and establishing a new RTGS system. However,
       the participating banks were slow in their uptake to leverage the project funds to
       enhance their risk management systems as they focused their staff on growing
       their business and maintain market share in the rapidly expanding sector. A
       banking crisis emerged in late 2008 due to major economic downturn and, in
       particular, the collapse of copper prices in Mongolia. This new crisis put
       unprecedented pressure on all the banks in the system and the two participating

                                            6
  banks--Mongol Post Bank and Zoos Bank--also faced significant pressure,
  affecting their financial condition. Zoos Bank, which had a large mining portfolio,
  failed and Mongol Post Bank, which also suffered significant financial losses due
  to mismanagement of its portfolio, merged with Saving Bank.


              Box 1: Mongolia Financial sector developments (2004-2009)

The financial sector in Mongolia experienced tremendous instability during the life span of
the project, ultimately affecting it implementation. Overall, the financial sector went through
three distinct phases, starting in 2004 when the commodity price boom began, and leading
up to a new banking sector crisis in 2009. The phases can be labeled as: sustainable growth,
overheating, and loss of confidence.

The first phase, from 2004 to mid-2007, was a period of sustainable growth of loans and
deposits. Commodity prices were beginning to rise. Narrow money and loans grew in line
with nominal GDP growth, non-performing loans (NPLs) were falling as a share of total
loans, inflation was in single digits and the loans-to-deposits ration was below 100 percent
and stable. From about 2006, the BOM started to peg the exchange rate to the US$, initially
to avoid a strong appreciation.

Although new banks had been established in the years before, the banking sector was
relatively concentrated as a small number of large banks accounted for the majority of loans
and deposits. However, as a sign of trouble to come, a proliferation of unregulated and
financially weak savings and credit cooperatives led to the failure of 32 of them in 2006,
affecting half of all assets held at these institutions. The resolution of these failures took a
long time, which led to simmering popular distrust in the financial system. By 2007, there
were 16 registered banks, which accounted for 95 percent of total assets in the financial
system. Ten were foreign owned.

The second phase, from mid-2007 to mid-2008, exhibited the tell-tale signs of overheating.
Economic growth continued to be high, buoyed by still increasing commodity prices
(approaching their peak) and strong remittances inflows. Narrow money and loan growth
started to exceed nominal GDP growth and deposit growth. Increasingly, loans were
directed to real estate, construction and mortgage lending, leading to a feed-back cycle of
rapidly growing housing prices and more housing-related lending. Although NPLs started to
increase, this was masked by the strong loan growth. As the currency was effectively
pegged, the pressure on the balance of payments amplified due to high imports. Inflation
accelerated to double digits. At its peak it was the highest in the East Asian region and was
accompanied by the emergence of negative real interest rates on MNT deposits.

The third phase started in mid-2008 with the collapse of commodity prices and would lead
to a loss of confidence. Growth had started to slow down, including in those countries
important for remittances to Mongolia. These remittances had traditionally supported real
estate investments, but now, their decrease led a housing price bust. Livestock-related prices
such as cashmere also dropped. A major bank failed, with exposure to other banks. The
combined effect was an increase in NPLs and loans with principal in arrears.

Source: The World Bank, Mongolia: Development Policy Credit, PAD, 2009.

                                            7
   Insufficient due diligence process for the Savings Bank privatization. The Savings
    Bank component aimed to assist the Government in developing and implementing
    a divestiture process of Savings Bank, to diversify systemic risks, and reduce
    government subsidies. In 2005 the project supported a consultant to advise the
    Government, and the action plan developed was determined to be satisfactory.
    However, the plan was not fully implemented and a revised process for
    privatization was undertaken by the Government without the support of the
    project funds in 2006. The Government sold the Savings Bank for approximately
    US$23 million to a consortium of financial institutions in December 2006.
    However, very shortly after the privatization, a fraud of approximately US$ 10
    million was uncovered at the bank, resulting in a major government loss related to
    the sale and suggesting inadequate planning and insufficient due diligence.

   The decision to deepen the payment system modernization effort created the need
    for additional extensions and added to costs. In the first two years of the project,
    the BOM successfully launched a National Clearing House in 2006, which
    included a Switch Clearing Center (SCC). The installment of the system was the
    major activity funded under the project, and its establishment can be considered a
    major milestone in the development of Mongolia's financial sector infrastructure.
    Following the SCC installation, however, the Government requested to continue
    with the payment systems development and put in place a RTGS system as well.
    The RTGS system was beyond the original expectations of the project, but in line
    with project development objectives. The Government, BOM and the Bank
    agreed on the importance of installing the RTGS system to expand and deepen the
    payment system modernization in Mongolia. However, delays in procurement and
    the installation of the system lead to need for substantial project extension and
    related higher supervision costs.

   Weak procurement and project reporting capacity. The project was negatively
    affected at times by weak institutional capacity at the BOM, MOFE and even at
    the participating banks in the areas of procurement, financial management, and
    project reporting. The Bank procurement procedures proved cumbersome and
    delays in selecting and appointing consultants stalled all three components at
    various times. The procurement through international competitive bidding of the
    firm to implement the RTGS system took an exceptionally long time to complete,
    and as a result, system implementation had to be rushed at the end of the project.

   Changes in government. During project implementation, Mongolia experienced
    several changes in government including in 2004, when a first-ever coalition
    government was formed, and in 2006 when the coalition broke down and another
    government was established. These changes caused delays in top level decision
    making, particularly in the initial half of the project implementation.

   Continuity in technical staff. In contrast to the changes in top level government,
    the remarkable continuity of key project management team at the BOM had an

                                         8
       important and positive effect on the outcome of the project. The two key staff at
       the BOM (including the Project Manager) were in place from start to finish of the
       project. They displayed excellent technical knowledge and administrative
       competence, and their presence throughout as part of the core project team helped
       keep the project moving despite constraints.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E desgin. The monitoring and evaluation system was generally sound, but had
shortcomings. On the positive side, the output indicators (lowest level indicators) were
straightforward and linked directly to the activities to be supported under the project. As
a result, the indicators served as effective tools to monitor activities.

On the negative side, however, the outcome/impact indicators proved less useful. This is
shown by the fact that while these indicators were largely achieved, their completion did
not always translate into achievement of the overall PDOs (discussed in Section 3). This
suggests that the output indicators should perhaps have been more detailed.

In addition, the sector level indicators, as listed in the PAD, did not appear to be linked
sufficiently to the activities carried out under the project. Two indicators stand out in
particular:
 Sound macroeconomic framework as represented by the indicators agreed under the
    Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC), including general government finances
    as a percent of GDP, credit to nonfinancial state enterprises as a percent of GDP, net
    domestic credit and net international reserves.
 Implementation of the Action Plan for Financial Sector Strengthening adopted under
    FSAC in the areas of corporate governance, legal and regulatory framework,
    commercial banking risk management, and non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs).

Given the relatively small project size and the specific activities supported, it seems
unlikely that the project could affect or make an impact in the areas specified above. The
project also did not have any components related to corporate governance, the legal and
regulatory framework or NBFIs. As a result of this disconnect, the project files suggest
that the sector indicators were neither necessarily monitored nor very useful in informing
project decisions.

M&E implementation and M&E utilization. In general, both the PIU staff and Bank
staff were familiar with the outcome and output indicators and regularly monitored
progress toward achieving them. The use of the system was reflected in project unit
reports as well is Bank supervision reports. Data was collected regularly for the payments
system component from the BOM and for the commercial bank risk management
component from the BOM and participating banks. For the Savings Bank component,
information was gathered from the Government directly and the Bank team made
judgments for supervision reports based on its dialog with the Government and the
proposed privatization process.


                                             9
It is also evident from project files that the Bank team used the Government's progress in
terms of meeting the PDOs as the key criteria in determining whether to extend the
various project components. For example, in March 2007, based on an assessment of
progress, the Bank agreed to an extension of the payment systems component, but closed
the Savings Bank and commercial risk management components.

Sustainability of the M&E system. For the payments systems component, the
Government is now actively monitoring the results of the project. Specifically, the BOM
now monitors performance of the new system on a daily basis and the system upgrade
also allows it to report data on systems use and efficiency on a monthly and annual
basis-- these activities were not done before the installation of the SCC and RTGS
systems. For the bank credit risk management component, the Government is no longer
formally monitoring the outcomes under the project given the developments in the sector
and with the two participating banks (described in Section 3 below). For the Savings
Bank component, no monitoring is necessary since the bank was privatized in 2006.

The Bank, however, continues to engage and support the Government to address the
banking sector issues that have emerged as a fall out of the recent global and domestic
economic crisis.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Overall, the implementing agencies maintained adequate financial management and
procurement systems. The Financial Policy and Coordination Department of the MOFE
had responsibility for overall reporting of financial and implementation progress. In
carrying out its project supervision, the department also worked closely with the staff of
the project implementation unit involved in the project. In addition, the Treasury
Department of the MOFE served as the financial supervisory unit, reviewing all
disbursements of the credit.

While no major compliance issues were encountered, weak institutional capacity for
financial reporting and procurement occasionally created project delays.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The global economic downturn which started in 2007 and the subsequent collapse in
commodity prices have had a dramatic effect on Mongolia's economy. As a result, the
financial sector has come under unprecedented strain following several years of
continued growth (as noted in Box 1). In response, the Government has continued its
efforts to reestablish fiscal stability and strengthen the banking sector to avoid further
crisis. It also requested the Bank to put together a new package of reform programs for
Mongolia that includes assistance to the financial sector, and builds on many of the
activities supported under the project. In general, the financial sector support agenda was
taken up by the Bank under the Development Policy Credit of June 2009, as well as a
series of technical assistance activities such as a quick banking sector review and
technical assistance for bank resolution. In addition, the IMF, ADB, and other donors put

                                            10
together assistance programs to help Mongolia manage its downturn. Specific follow up
for each component of the project is described below.

Payment Systems Modernization. The BOM plans to continue developing its payment
systems following the close of the project. Before the close of the project, BOM staff
were trained and successfully operating the switch clearing center and the new RTGS
systems. They had also convened a BOM Policy Group to help deal with ongoing
regulatory issues, to resolve outstanding issues, and develop Mongolia's systems further
in accordance with good international practices. In April 2009, prior to project closing, a
World Bank payment systems consultant worked closely with the BOM's project team to
identify technical limitations and policy issues that would need to be addressed in the
future. Priority areas for development included: (i) a POS/ATM shared network, (ii)
mobile payment systems, and (iii) money market development (related to the BOM
general ledger). A roadmap for future development in these areas was also identified.
Key follow-up actions reported by BOM since the closing of the project include:
     Approved regulation on Payment Card in August 2009
     Development and approval of a middle term development strategy for SSC in
        December 2009 (which includes looking at privatization option for SSC)
     SCC is testing POS/ATM shared network with 3 banks and BOM has agreement
        with the remaining bank with it own network (Golomt Bank) to join in mid 2010.
        BoM is planning to launch POS/ATM shared network with 24 hours payment
        card switching system from Q3 2010.
     Prepared a draft electronic payment system law to facilitate development of
        mobile payments in Mongolia (expected to be submitted to Parliament next year)
     Established a working group to upgrade/change their general ledger system

Commercial Banking Risk Management. There are no additional follow up plans for
this component. The two participating banks, Zoos Bank and Mongol Post Bank, were
significantly impacted due to the economic and financial crises in Mongolia which started
in 2008. Zoos Bank failed and is under the receivership of BOM and its resolution is
under discussion. The other bank (Mongol Post Bank) has applied to BOM to be merged
with Savings Bank. The new managements of these institutions will decide the way
forward.

Savings Bank Resolution. There are no further plans related to the Savings Bank
component given that the Bank was privatized in 2006 and is operating under a new
management.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives, design, and implementation of the project remained relevant and consistent
with national priorities throughout project implementation. Mongolia's banking sector
remains small and unstable and continues to pose a major obstacle to private sector
development. This issue was reflected in two major development papers for the country: (i)

                                            11
the Mongolia's 2001 I-PRSP (Report No: 22691-MOG), and (ii) the Bank's 2004-2007
Country Assistance Strategy (Report No: 28419-MOG). Both of these documents call for
"further consolidation of market reforms to establish a sound institutional and regulatory
environment for the private sector" as a main development priority.

The continued weakness of the financial sector also was highlighted in the Bank's 2009
Interim Strategy Note for Mongolia. This note calls attention to the need for a more
competitive and stable medium-term business environment, and also emphasizes the
Government's need for assistance particularly to restore fiscal balance and to regain
stability following the severe economic downturn of 2008.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the main project development objective is rated moderately
satisfactory. This assessment takes into account the results of the three components and
gives extra weight to the payment system component since it accounted for 68 percent of
allocated project funds and contributed to improving efficiency and security of
transaction in the banking system as a whole. The project contributed to building the
institutional capacity of the banking sector through the modernization of its payments
systems infrastructure and development of staff capacity to manage the system in line
with good international standards. This represents potentially long term and important
improvements in Mongolia's financial sector infrastructure and has helped reduce
systemic risks in the system and enhance financial intermediation. However, only limited
gains were made through the banking risk management component since only two banks
participated in the project, one of which failed and the other is seeking BOM approval to
merge with another bank. Further, while the Government has reduced its ownership of
the financial sector--and thus its systemic risk--with support of the project and sale of
Savings Bank, the privatization was not carried out in a fully controlled manner, and thus
resulted in some degree of continued liability to the Government even after privatization
took place.

PDO 1. Improved Commercial Bank Risk Management

The achievement of this project development objective is rated moderately
unsatisfactory. The project originally envisioned that it would support at least three
major banks through this component with technical assistance from long term advisors.
At approval, two banks--Zoos Bank and the Mongol Post Bank--had met the eligibility
criteria, and a third bank was pre-selected but was unable to meet the eligibility criteria
for participation, at approval and during project implementation. Although the Bank task
team strongly encouraged the Government to identify another participant, a replacement
could not be identified, thus limiting the potential positive impact of this component on
the banking sector. Given the lack of expansion of the project and slowdown in
remaining planned technical assistance and training activities at the two participating
banks, this component closed in March 2007.

The project established two specific output/impact indicators: (i) new risk management
framework established and (ii) implemented in participating banks and improved
                                            12
financial position and performance of participating banks. Though the former was
achieved, there is little evidence of causal links to the performance of the banking sector
overall or that the activities at the two banks actually improved commercial bank risk
management overall. The fact that two institutions were two of the three banks most
affected by the recent economic downturn makes it more difficult to establish any causal
link and identify monitor-able indicators to evaluate the direct outcome of this component
for these institutions and the system as a whole.

From 2001 to 2007, the banking sector expanded rapidly with large loan growth as well
as an increase in the deposits in the sector (see Table 1). This was followed by a period of
economic downturn and emergence of weaknesses in the banking sector (see Box 1 on
Mongolia Financial Sector Developments). Thus, in part due to the pressure on the
financial system overall following the economic downturn, the expected impact of the
project on the sector has not been realized and also difficult to evaluate. The financial
performance of the participating banks also suffered significantly in 2008 and 2009,
leading eventually to changes in ownership of both banks. Specifically, Mongol Post
Bank has applied to BOM to be merged with the Savings Bank and Zoos Bank is under
receivership of the Government.

                          Table 1: Banking Sector Growth
               2000   2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006                2007   2008    2009
Loans/ GDP
(%)           5.7   10.5 16.4    38     28.2        30.9    32.9   45.1    43.8   43.8
Deposits/
GDP (%)       7.9   10.5 15.5 31.3       24         24.2    26.8   32.7    22.2   30.7
Source: BOM SSC and BOM Annual Report 2007.

The component is rated moderately unsatisfactory, rather than unsatisfactory, based on
the advances made in establishing credit risk management by Zoos Bank and Mongol
Post bank during the project and the fact that some of the staff trained by the project
continue to work at these banks in their new forms or in the banking sector (continuing to
contribute to the skill base of the banking sector).

PDO 2. Modernization of Payment System and Instruments

The achievement of this PDO is rated satisfactory. While the pace of implementation of
the component was at times uneven, the project ultimately fulfilled its objectives by
significantly modernizing the payments systems infrastructure at the BOM and building
the capacity of staff to manage the new system. This component outcome would have
been rated highly satisfactory but for the delays in procurement and implementation
putting pressure on the system to be put in place in a short period of time.

This conclusion takes into account the fact that under the project, the BOM established a
Switch Clearing Center as well as implemented a new RTGS system--an output that was
not originally envisioned at appraisal. In spite of delays, the Government maintained
commitment to the project objectives through the lifespan of the project and substantially
upgraded the countries payment systems. The assessment also takes into account the

                                            13
potential robustness of the achievements. Given that the project put a heavy emphasis on
training and institutional development, the BOM has in substantially built its staff
capacity to administer the system effectively, solve operational and technical issues on a
timely basis, and also manage the systems' future development. Both systems were tested
by the consultant before being handed over to the BOM and were operating properly.

As mentioned above (in Section 2.2), the automated clearing and settlement system
established under the project is expected to bring real benefits to Mongolia's financial
sector, such as a shared financial network, a common low cost payments processing
system, standards for payments orders and electronic instruments that comply with
international practices, a supporting legal framework for electronic security, and
improved government disbursements. The effectiveness of the system is demonstrated by
the rapid increase in the number of interbank transactions handled by the BOM on an
annual basis. As shown below, the number of bank transactions increased substantially
(Table 2). This growth reflects the efficiency of the system and the system's capacity to
handle the transaction needs of a developing economy and financial sector. In addition,
the ratio of inter-bank transactions to GDP has more than doubled since 2002. Such
growth suggests improved public confidence in the banking system and the increasing
importance of the payment system to the economy.

                         Table 2: Changes in Total Bank Transactions
                              2002 2003 2004 2005            2006     2007    2008    2009
Bank transactions (000')     1,210 2,216 2,724 2,350         3,214 3,654     3,615   4,095
Change (%)                    44.3   83.1     22.9   -13.7    36.8   14.0    -1.1    13.3
Source: BOM SSC and BOM Annual Report 2007.


PDO 3. Controlled Process of Savings Bank Resolution.

As mentioned earlier, the Savings Bank was privatized in December 2006, reducing
overall government ownership of the private sector and limiting the Government's fiscal
liability caused by the bank, which was more than 2 percent of GDP according to the
appraisal documents. The output indicators for this component were more or less met
with the development of an initial action plan satisfactory to IDA developed and its
implementation initiated (see Annex 2). However, the actions did not translate into a fully
satisfactory outcome as the initial plans were not followed. An alternate plan was
followed after a period of delay and a fraud at the bank was discovered shortly after its
privatization. This fraud could potentially have been discovered earlier through a more
thorough due diligence and better controlled implementation process. Ultimately, the
implementation of the Government's action plan on privatization proved to have a more
significant impact, than the development of that plan, and the output indicators focused
on the later issue while the outcome indicator focused on the former. Thus, the
achievement of the PDO for this component--a controlled process of Savings Bank
resolution--is rated unsatisfactory.

The Table 3 below provides a summary of outcome indicators. Details for each
component are presented in Annex 2.

                                            14
                               Table 3: Outcome/Impact indicators
1. New risk management framework                      Achieved. Both of participating banks
established and implemented in participating          established new risk management frameworks
banks.                                                and adopted credit risk management manuals
                                                      for the first time. However, the component was
                                                      not expanded sufficiently to have desired
                                                      impact across the sector. Furthermore, even
                                                      though the project helped in improving risk
                                                      management capacity of these banks, it was not
                                                      enough to avoid these banks facing significant
                                                      financial difficulties and losses during the
                                                      recent economic and financial crisis.
2. Improved financial position and performance        Not Achieved. The participating banks
of participating banks.                               complied with BOM prudential regulations and
                                                      sound efficiency and productivity ratios during
                                                      the course of the project. As noted above, even
                                                      though the project helped in improving risk
                                                      management capacity of these banks, it was not
                                                      enough to avoid these banks facing significant
                                                      financial difficulties and losses during the
                                                      recent economic and financial crisis.
3. Safe and efficient online transactions             Achieved. BOM currently has established and
between end-users and their banks.                    is successfully operating the SCC and the new
                                                      RTGS system.
4. Information technology used in a cost-             Achieved. The SCC and RTGS are open to all
effective manner to support compliance with           banks and are compatible with international
best international practice and realization of the    payment system standards.
sought after benefits of the payments system
and other related information systems.
5. Timely preparation and implementation of a         Not Achieved. Preparation of the action plan
resolution plan for Savings Bank satisfactory to      was satisfactory. However, the plan was
IDA.                                                  however never fully implemented. After a
                                                      period of delay, the Government followed an
                                                      alternate plan and privatized the bank in 2006.

3.3 Efficiency

While a standard financial rate of return analysis is not possible for the project, a
qualitative assessment is useful. As anticipated during project design, the project has not
had any major fiscal impact in the short run as a result of the payment systems or bank
credit risk management components. However, over the long term, the IT upgrade under
the payment system component is expected to be recuperated through revenue
generations from the electronic payments made through the SCC and RTGS system
operations (See Table 4). There has been an increase in transactions during the lifespan of
the project and this is expected to continue. As mentioned earlier, the BOM is already
looking to privatizing the SSC. For the Savings Bank component, the Government did
see a positive fiscal impact following the privatization as the sale eliminated the

                                                     15
Government's annual interest and cash payments to the bank. However, the benefit to the
Government is less than it should have been given the fraud that was discovered at the
bank of roughly US$ 10 million.

                   Table 4: Growth of Transactions and Revenues 2006-2009
                        2006               2007             2008              2009
                 number revenue number revenue number revenue number revenue
    Total         3,215 446,025 3,655 501,750 3,615 481,425 4,094 552,525
 Low-value        2,732 409,800 3,035 455,250 2,805 420,750 3,273 490,950
 Large value       483      36,225     620     46,500   809     60,675    821    61,575
Note: the figures are in Thousands and Thousands Tugrik

Given the above, the efficiency of the project is considered moderately satisfactory
overall and is generally in line with the expectations set forth at appraisal. Although the
project took longer than expected to complete, there were additional benefits to the
banking sector through the upgrades to the payment system and introduction of the RTGS
system which enhanced the and deepened the initial payment modernization plans and
expectation from the project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is rated moderately satisfactory. Despite
implementation delays and consequent extensions of the closing date, the FCDP helped
to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Mongolian banking sector to reduce
systemic risks and enhance financial intermediation. This assessment takes into account
that the majority of the funding and disbursement for the operation focused on the
payment systems component and that this component achieved its intended objectives
and strengthened the overall financial system infrastructure. It also factors in the
continued relevance of the objectives of the project and the fact that banking sector
development presents a main obstacle to private sector development and in turn, poverty
reduction in the country.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project did not have any direct impact on poverty, gender or social development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The main groups targeted for institutional change/strengthening during project
preparation were the BOM, MOFE, and participating banks. Following is a summary of
achievements with additional details provided in Annex 2.


                                            16
   BOM. The project had positive institutional impact at the BOM in particular through
    the payment systems component. The staff and management of the BOM benefited
    extensively from the training and technical assistance financed by the project and are
    now effectively operating the new SCC and RTGS systems on an ongoing basis. As a
    way to maintain this capacity over the long term and also develop the systems further,
    the BOM has put in place a comprehensive set of procedures and internal structures
    (including the creation of a working group on payment systems made up of key staff).

   MOFE. The project had a positive institutional impact on the MOFE through its work
    on the Savings Bank and payments systems components. Under the Savings Bank
    component, the technical assistance under the project helped strengthen the MOFE
    capacity to manage key aspects of the privatization process,. Under the payment
    systems component, the MOFE benefited through improvements to management of
    its General Ledger.

   Participating banks. The bank risk management component benefited a number of
    key staff at Zoos and Mongol Post Bank through long term technical assistance and
    training of credit risk management. As per information provided by BOM, Zoos Bank
    (called State Bank since it has been in receivership) still employs over 75 percent of
    the key staff trained under the FCDP program. Though the status at Mongol Post
    Bank could not be confirmed it is expected that these banks or other banks in
    Mongolia will continue to benefit from the knowledge acquired by the trained staff.
    Given the new owners of the participating banks, as of end 2009, however, it is
    unlikely that credit procedures and systems developed under the FCDP have been
    maintained.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project did not have any other unintended outcomes.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome is rated as Moderate. The major achievements under
the project--primarily related to the payment systems component--are very likely to be
sustained in the short and the medium term. This is due to the fact that the BOM is
currently using the new RTGS systems and has implemented the new processes
associated with it. The BOM is also already taking steps to continue to strengthen the
payment systems as noted in section 2.5. As mentioned above (in section 2.2),
considerable effort has been made under the project not only to train key BOM staff and
management, but also identify issues, technical and policy challenges and identify a road
map for future development of the payments system. Given that these internal factors are
in place and the BOM continues to demonstrate a commitment to modernizing its

                                            17
payment system, the likelihood of any major new factors undermining the achievements
is considered low. Any risk to sustainability relates primarily to ensuring smooth
functioning of the payments system, which will require BOM to work proactively with
the industry to introduce system upgrades to respond to growing need of the economy. It
will also involve substantial resource commitment to maintain the system infrastructure
and the backup center up to date.

With regard to the other two components which have been rated moderately
unsatisfactory and unsatisfactory ratings in their assessment of development outcomes
the risk to sustainability of the development outcomes is difficult to evaluate, in particular
given recent development relating to the 3 institutions involved. The Saving Bank has
been privatized and is operating with the new owners. There is, however, always a risk
that it too may succumb to the emerging problems affecting the banking sector in
Mongolia, especially as it may not have fully recovered from the fall out of the prost
privatization fraud. Zoos Bank in under the receivership of the BOM and its future is
under discussion. Mongol Post Bank has applied to BOM for merger with Savings Bank
and the structure of the new institution is likely to change. The benefits of the technical
assistance to these institutions under the FCDP project are unlikely to be sustained as new
owners will restructure these institutions in line with their new vision. The overall
assessment of risk to development outcome for the project is thus rated as moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank performance during the preparation phase is rated as moderately satisfactory. As
described above (in section 2.1), the project's focus on institutional capacity building and
financial sector infrastructure was relevant and consistent both with Government
priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy. In addition, the background and sectoral
analysis for the project was excellent, and the project formed part of a coherent package
of assistance to the Government. On the negative side, however, the commercial bank
risk management component appeared not to be fully prepared (as was concluded by the
QSA in 2006) and the risks associated with working with only a few individual banks
were not identified in full. The M&E system design was adequate, but had a few
shortcomings as described above (section 2.3).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

On the positive side, staff continuity was excellent throughout implementation. There
were only two task managers, who knew the full project history and were able to keep
key activities on track at times when the BOM or MOFE faced implementation problems.
The continuity of the Bank supervision team was an important contributing factor to the

                                             18
project's overall success. The task team was also successful in mobilizing technical
expertise of international consultants as part of the supervision process. In addition, the
Bank appears to have adequately supervised fiduciary and safeguards policies according
to the project audits and supervision reports as no major issues arose during
implementation.

On the negative side, the QSA in 2006 found a few shortcomings in Bank supervision.
Specifically, it found that the team was not as proactive as it could have been in some
instances in elevating problem issues within the Government. While Bank actions were
generally appropriate, in some cases the QSA felt that they were not adequate for solving
problems. The assessment recommended a more proactive upstream approach, elevating
certain issues (such as related to the Savings Bank privatization) with higher level
Mongolian authorities and recommending greater candor in the ISRs. The Bank team was
generally responsive to the QSA team's advice and subsequently downgraded specific
components and performance rating in supervision reports, acknowledging that given
recent developments the past higher rating needed adjustment; thus keeping management
more accurately informed of the status of the project and helping to mobilize additional
support measures. The task team also worked closely and effectively with the country
management unit and with teams of other related projects so that advice to the
Government was consistent.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Taking these positive and negative aspects of the Bank's supervision into account, the
overall quality of supervision during the course of the project is rated as moderately
satisfactory. Although there were some weaknesses as identified above, the
overwhelming factors contributing to the achievements of the project from the Bank side
were (i) a well-designed, coherent project with clear and relevant project objectives, (ii)
continuity and coherence in Bank supervision and management, and (iii) close
coordination with the country management unit.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory. High level staff at the MOFE
and BOM were active and effective in designing the project goals, scope of work and
implementation plan. During preparation, government commitment was high; however,
during project implementation, performance was slightly less consistent with frequent
changes in some Government counterparts, delays in decision making, procurement, and
implementation.

BOM. For the payments systems and bank risk management components, the BOM
maintained its commitment to the project despite the various project delays. Key staff
were technically competent, committed and proactive in managing the project. They

                                             19
maintained good relationships with Bank staff as well as with other partners such as the
private banks and other international donors. In addition, financial reporting was
adequate and no major problems arose. Procurement performance was weak at times due
lack of familiarity with Bank guidelines and also occasional slow decision making.

MOFE. The MOFE's performance was uneven for the Savings Bank component as the
process became highly politicized. To some extent this was expected as many large
privatizations faced challenges, but greater consistency would have benefited the overall
process. The MOFE demonstrated commitment to the project as a whole and willingness
to work constructively with key partners and consultants.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Participating banks. The two other implementing agencies (in addition to the BOM and
MOFE) were Mongol Post Bank and Zoos Bank. The performance of these two banks is
rated moderately satisfactory. Both of the banks had sub-loans with the Government to
participate in the project and adequately fulfilled the participation requirements. In
addition, bank management was supportive of the project and demonstrated that the
valued the technical advice provided by the banking experts by implementing significant
changes to the credit and risk management policies of the banks.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Given the overall performance of the Government and implementing agencies, the overall
performance is considered moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The Bank and Government should be realistic about the risk of procurement delays at
the outset to avoid administratively costly extensions or squeezing the timeframe for
implementation. Projects that are implemented by agencies with weak institutional
capacity are more likely to have procurement delays. The Bank should recognize this
likelihood and (i) either be very realistic or (ii) provide extra assistance to government
staff to avoid delays. In the case of the given project, the tender of the RTGS system took
an exceptionally long time, requiring a project extension and also squeezing the amount
of time for available for optimal implementation, testing, and customization.

The Government and Bank should extend projects if there is a reasonable chance of
increasing the developmental impact. In the case of the FCDP, the project could have
reasonably been closed in 2007, after the SCC was installed at the BOM as part of the
payment systems component. At that point, the original development objectives had been
met generally and the main activities were largely complete (also for the Savings Bank
and commercial bank risk components). However, the project had significant remaining
funds. The decision to use these funds for the installation of the RTGS system--which

                                            20
was not originally envisioned at appraisal--had important benefits, significantly
increasing the depth of the reforms carried out under the project and substantially
increasing the efficiency of Mongolia's payment system.

The Bank should be realistic about the risks related to designing financial sector
projects that target only a few banks. During preparation, the project team conducted a
comprehensive analysis of the financial sector and identified three banks that potentially
could have benefited from participating under the credit risk management component. In
the end, however, while two received technical assistance, the impact on the banking
sector and the sustainability of the changes put in place was relatively limited.
Mongolia's severe economic downturn and banking crisis in Mongolia substantially
worsened the financial conditions of the banks, and in the end, both participating banks
experienced fundamental management changes (specifically, with Zoos becoming state
owned and Mongol Post Bank merging with the Savings Bank in 2009). The third Bank
also was never able to qualify given the financial pressures it faced as part of the banking
crisis.

Monitoring and evaluation indicators must be sufficiently demanding if they are to
serve as useful tools for a project. Specifically, the monitoring and evaluation framework
should ensure that outputs are highly relevant and really capture progress toward meeting
the development objective. For the Savings Bank and bank risk management
components, the monitoring indicators did not sufficiently capture progress toward
meeting PDOs, as they required only action planning, rather than implementation. As a
result, the system focused on outputs--which did not translate into the desired outcome
or impact.

For a successful privatization, government must maintain a commitment to a
controlled and transparent privatization process. The Savings Bank privatization in
Mongolia demonstrated the well-known lesson that the most important factor affecting
outcome is not the government's development of a good action plan, but the
Government's commitment to fully implement the plan.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

None.
(b) Cofinanciers :

NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

NA




                                             21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                         Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                                  Percentage of
           Components                                   Estimate (US$
                                    (US$ millions)                                     Appraisal
                                                           millions)
Commercial Banking Risk
                                           1.30                 0.69                       53
Management
Payment Systems Modernization
                                           3.35                 3.9                        116
Savings Bank Resolution
                                                0.19                   0.24                126
Implementation Support
                                                0.09                   0.11                89


             Total Baseline Cost                4.93                   4.94                100
Physical Contingencies
                                                0.00                   0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                0.57                   0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs                5.50                   4.94
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                   0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00                   0.00                .00
     Total Financing Required                   5.50                   4.94

Source: Appraisal Estimates are taken from PAD, Annex 3, page 43. Actual figures are taken from the
Bank operations portal.



(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                       Type of                                    Percentage of
         Source of Funds                              Estimate       Estimate
                                     Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                    (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Borrower
                                                          0.50                0.45*              90
International Development
Association (IDA)                                         5.00                4.87            97.4

*Estimated based on input from records and BOM.




                                                  22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Following is a summary of outputs of the three components.

(i) Commercial bank risk management

Objective: Improved commercial bank risk management

Risk-based lending policies and procedures to     Partially Achieved. New risk management
be developed and issued within six months         frameworks were established in the two
after Credit effectiveness.                       participating banks (Zoos and Mongol Post
                                                  Bank).
Ratio of nonperforming loans (NPLs) to Total      Achieved. Both banks fulfilled the BOM
Loans of participating banks not to exceed 10     prudential requirements imposed by the project
percent throughout project implementation         and the MOFE during the entire project
period.                                           duration as evidenced from data provided by
                                                  BOM.
Credit/portfolio risk function reorganized        Achieved. Achieved with assistance of the
within six months after Credit effectiveness.     technical assistance advisors for the two
                                                  participating banks.
All credit officers of participating banks to     Achieved.
have completed at least one training course in
Mongolia within the first 12 months after
Credit effectiveness.

Comments:

The outcome for this component--improved commercial bank risk management--
has been at best only partially achieved. While the outputs expected have all been
achieved, the overall objective has not been met as planned. This is due in part to the
failure of the Government to include a third bank in the project, which limited the scope
and potential impact of the component. The Bank closed this component on March 31,
2007 due to limited progress of the activities. In addition, despite the technical assistance,
both banks faced challenges at the beginning as a result of the economic downturn that
began in 2007. As a result, Mongol Post Bank merged with Savings Bank in October
2009. In addition, Zoos Bank faced significant financial difficulties--culminating in
November 2009 Government takeover in order to maintain the stability of the financial
system.

In the short run, however, both of the participating banks benefited from the advisory
services of the long term international experts. Specific outputs are summarized below.

Zoos Bank. From 2004 to 2005 Zoos Bank faced a number of challenges due to an
increasing level of NPLs to 5.4 percent, in part due to loan growth of more than 50
percent during the previous period (according to the April 2006 supervision report). Thus,
the bank's priority was putting in place structures to improve portfolio quality.

                                                 23
Under the guidance of two long-term advisors, the project achieved the following:
 Credit policies and procedures were revised and updated to reflect international best
   practices adapted to the Mongolian banking scene.
 Policies and procedures covering other areas of risk throughout the bank were
   reviewed and updated.
 A new credit review department that aimed to continually monitor loan portfolio
   quality, looking for areas of weakness in underwriting, monitoring and collecting
   loans was established.
 Changes in management reports to more effectively monitor potential risks in all
   areas of the bank's operations were recommended.
 The advisor also served as a member of the bank credit committee while under
   contract.
 The operational procedure and structure of the management committee was reviewed
   and updated.
 SWOT and financial statement analyses were conducted.
 A new internal rating system to better assess credit was developed. The new internal
   rating system improved the methodology to assess credit risks. The purpose of the
   model was to identify more realistic factors and sub factors that may have impacts to
   credit quality. Regarding the rating system model, a new manual for loan officers was
   issued.
 In addition, the project supported training and seminars in various critical areas of
   risk management and operations.

At the time the project stopped disbursements to this component in March 2007, BOM
reported that all prudential ratio requirement for the project were met; NPLs ratio was
reported to be 3.8 percent (compared to 4.4 in March 2006).

Mongol Post Bank. At Mongol Post Bank, the technical assistance helped senior
management change its organizational structure and business processes. Key
developments included the establishment of a comprehensive reporting system, which
required 100 percent credit exposure reporting, including with corresponding banks on a
monthly basis. The system also required analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the
portfolio. Control over off-balance-sheet risks was also tightened. Further, the credit
committee also was enhanced and a grading system introduced. The project also helped
the bank establish a risk management department and train branch management and
credit officers.

Under the guidance of two long-term advisors, the project achieved the following:
 A new organizational structure was implemented in a way designed to improve the
   bank's management of risk.
 A senior officer was trained, and assumed the job of Director of Risk management..
 A new credit audit function was established.
 The policy making and credit oversight role of the Credit Committee was enhanced.
 A new approach to improve the monitoring and collection of late payments of interest
   and principal was designed. This new approach reduced the backlog which has
   hampered the bank's performance. It calls for the ability of the Head of the Customer

                                           24
    unit to pull up daily on their computers the past due information which is a basis for
    performance evaluation of credit officers.
   A new strategic planning and risk management department was established to better
    manage and prevent operational and credit risk.
   A twelve part course, entitled "Effective Credit Management" for the training of
    credit analysts in the bank designed for Mongolian credit and economic conditions
    was developed and completed. The most significant component of the course was the
    introduction of credit grading. A comprehensive process of training credit analysts
    also was initiated and implemented.

Till 2005, there had been generally satisfactory progress with implementation, and the
Mongol Post Bank management reported benefits from the project in terms of meeting its
2005 goals, including expanding its network, and also helping it meet government's
increased capital requirements for that year. Implementation slowed done subsequently as
noted in earlier sections. At the time the project stopped disbursements to this component
in March 2007, BOM reported that all prudential ratio requirement for the project were
met; NPLs ratio was reported to be 3.4 percent (compared to 3.9 in March 2006).


(ii) Payments system modernization:

Objective: modernization of payments systems and instruments
Decision to be taken by the Bank of Mongolia   Achieved (1/16/2006). The BOM put a cap on
(BOM) within 12 months after Credit            value or "urgency" qualifications for payments
effectiveness regarding the threshold value of in the RTGS.
transactions to be processed in the existing
BOM system.
An electronic transactions legislation to be   Achieved. Interbank low and high/large value
adopted not later than 18 months after Credit  transaction related regulation have been
effectiveness.                                 adopted and upgraded at different points in
                                               time to ensure successful operation of the SSC
                                               and RTGS.
Value of commercial and government             Achieved (6/30/2009). Evidenced by BOM
transactions processed through the new         reports.
payments system to increase by at least 20
percent per annum, respectively, after the
system becomes operational. Alleviated
overload of the existing BOM payments
system.
 Alleviated overload of the existing BOM       Achieved. This occurred immediately after the
payments system.                               SCC began operations by (i) moving all
                                               interbank payments out of the BOM General
                                               Ledger, and (ii) moving all treasury accounting
                                               out of multiple BOM accounts and into the
                                               electronic payment details passed through a
                                               Single Treasury Account at BOM. This also
                                               enabled BOM to stop all manual paper
                                               processing associated with the previous
                                               Treasury payment instruments.

                                             25
Comments:

The outcome--modernization of payment systems and instruments--for this
component has been achieved and in some cases outputs exceeded expectations. In
the end, the automated clearing and settlement system is expected to bring real benefits to
Mongolia's financial sector, such as a shared financial network, a common low cost
payments processing system, standards for payments orders and electronic instruments
that comply with international practices, a supporting legal framework for electronic
security, and improved government disbursements. Main outputs are summarized below.

Establishment of Switch Clearing Center. In the first two years of the project, the BOM
successfully launched a National Clearing House in 2006, which includes an SCC. The
installment of the system was the major activity funded under the project, and its
establishment can be considered a major milestone in the development of Mongolia's
financial sector infrastructure. The system is now in charge of operating and supervising
the shared national financial network. Participants of this network include 16 commercial
banks, the Treasury Department of the MOFE, and the BOM. All participants are
connected to the SCC via dedicated fiber optic and other high speed lines. Inter bank
payments are now separated into low and high-value payments (LVP and HVP).

After initial delays in 2004, the BOM signed a contract to install a new electronic funds
switching system and a card management application. The support also included the
integration, training, commissioning and technical support of all essential computing
resources and peripheral equipment. Under the terms of the agreement, the consultant
provided BOM with its ESP-LinkTM/FTS and ESP-LinkTM/CCS software solutions. The
new system allows the BOM to implement a modern, secure, standards-based, national
electronic banking infrastructure. Subsequent phases call for the implementation of a
links to international card schemes (e.g. Visa, MasterCard) and the implementation of
other electronic banking services.

BOM has also established a national card processing centre using the CCS product. The
new service is being used by Mongolian banks to issue and process both credit and debit
card transactions on a subscription or fee-for-service basis. The initial card product
offerings now include proprietary debit cards, Visa-branded debit cards and branded
proprietary credit card products. This installation of a card management application was
also an important feature of the new system. On the basis of this feature, the SCC can act
as an outsource supplier for Card Services for banks which could not justify the large
expense of purchasing such a system by themselves. This business for the SCC has been
successful and has helped significantly to make the SCC profitable without increasing the
price of the basic inter-bank payment processing.

To make such outsourcing acceptably independent, the SCC also needed to be established
as a "Stand-Alone" entity held at arm's length from the BOM  and this was done with
the SCC having (i) its own premises, (ii) its own G/L, (iii) its own management, (iv) its
own IT support, (v) its own operational staff, etc.

                                            26
RTGS Upgrade. Following the SCC installation, the Government decided to continue
with the payment systems development and put in place an RTGS system as well. An
RTGS system was beyond the original expectations of the project, but fully in line with
project development objectives. The new system was launched in May 2009 and the
consultant provided the BOM with the relevant technical advisory services related to start
up and management.

Through the RTGS system, LVP and HVP are now cleared by the clearing house in real
time. With real time cross settlement, all participants are able to exchange financial
transactions online and in real time mode. The new service is substantially more secure,
reliable, and efficient than the original system and also fully in line with good
international practices. Additional benefits of this service include trading of the Central
Bank bill via the same network platform, exchanging files, reports and other important
and confidential information.

The original system was internally developed by the BOM and was built as a module of
the General Ledger. This placed a large online processing demand on the BOM General
Ledger which would have collapsed under this increasing workload  so a separate
system to offload the General Ledger was mandatory. Additional benefits of this service
include trading of the Central Bank bill via the same network platform, exchanging files,
reports and other important and confidential information.

At the end of the RTGS installation, the BOM staff worked with the consultant to put in
place trained staff to oversee of the regulatory framework and also help identify plans for
future development of the system. At project close, the BOM had established an RTGS
Policy Committee comprised of one representative from all the BOM departments.

Institutional capacity building. The project supported considerable staff training and
institutional development at the BOM. Key outputs included:
      Training on system implementation.
      Translation of and training on key technical standards for staff. One of the key
       international payment system standards is Standard ISO8583. A firm knowledge
       of this technical standard was considered integral to the proper use of the system.
       As a result, the project had the full standard (roughly 300 pages) translated into
       Mongolia and provided it to all the banks for their use.

      Development of a Mongolian-language Rules and Procedures Manual. Also as
       part of the institutional development, the consultant and the project manager
       developed a detailed Rules and Procedures Manual to be signed by all user banks
       regarding operation of the system. The guide included specifications and details
       on system fundamentals, technical standards, reporting, performance criteria,
       software change management, problem reporting, etc.
      Establishment of an RTGS Policy Group. This group was established to deal with
       regulatory issues and development of the policy framework.

                                             27
      Study tours. The project funded study tours for key staff. This included study
       tours to: South Korea, (5 people); European central banks (3 people); Reforming
       Payment and Securities Settlement Systems Conference, USA, (1 person);
       SWIFT, Singapore (1 person); New Zealand (3 people); ECB Seminar, Germany
       (2 people); VISA Workshop, Pakistan (1 person); and Bank of England and
       Iceland (4 people).
As a result of the training, the BOM has substantially upgraded its capacity to manage a
modern payments system in line with good international practices. Many key processes
and procedures have been streamlined and the policy framework related to the new
system has largely been put in place, although continuous upgrading and monitoring will
be needed.


(iii) Savings Bank resolution:

Objective: A controlled process of Savings Bank resolution
A time-bound resolution plan for Savings Bank Achieved. A plan was submitted.
to be submitted to the Association for its
review and comment within four months after
Credit effectiveness.
Implementation of the resolution plan to be   Partially Achieved. A plan was submitted and
initiated within six months after Credit      initiated, but never followed. The bank was
effectiveness.                                privatized at the end of 2006 through a
                                              different plan/process.

Comments:

The first output set forth at appraisal was met while the second was only partially
achieved. However, the overall development objective--a controlled process of
Savings Bank resolution--was not been achieved. In evaluating the developmental
outcomes for this component, it is important to note the Government met the specific
output relating to submission of a resolution plan. Specifically, under the project, at the
start of the privatization process, the MOFE contracted an international banking specialist
to advise the Government with the preparation of the Savings Bank resolution. The
consultant (i) prepared an action plan for privatization, (ii) developed a set of technical
evaluation criteria and a scoring system for the privatization process, and (iii) advised the
Government on implementation. As background, the consultant conducted a financial and
institutional assessment of the bank.

Though the implementation of the plan was initiated, the plan was never implemented in
full. After a period of delay, the Government followed an alternate plan and privatized
the bank in 2006. As mentioned above in Section 3, shortly following the sale of the bank
to a consortium of private investors, a major fraud was discovered, indicating a less than
satisfactory outcome. The discovery of this fraud suggests that the due diligence for the
bank was not fully sufficient and the resolution of the Savings Bank not done in a
controlled manner as planned at project preparation.


                                             28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

NA




                                      29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
            Names                       Title                Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
                                                                      Task Team
Xiaofeng Hua              Sr. Financial Sector Spec.        EASFP
                                                                        Leader
                          Financial Management &
                                                                  Financial
Nancy Chen                Commercial Bank Financial       EASFP
                                                                 Management
                          Reporting and Accounting
Charlie Garrigues         Sr. Payment Systems Specialist   FSD Payment Systems
Robert Keppler            Sr. Advisor                      FSD Payment Systems
Hoi-chan Nguyen           Country Counsel                 LEGEA     Legal
R. Gopalkrishnan          Procurement specialist          EAPCO Procurement
Rosa Muleta               Disbursement specialist          LOA  Disbursement
                          Peer reviewer: Overall project
Paul Murgatroyd           design and Savings Bank         AFTFS  Peer Review
                          resolution
                          Peer reviewer: Commercial bank
Vince Polizatto                                            BFI   Peer Review
                          risk management
                          Peer reviewer: Payments systems
Ahmet Soylemezoglu                                        AFTFS  Peer Review
                          modernization
                          Sr. Operations Officer
Tsoloman Bat-Ochir                                        EACMF   Operations
                          (Ulaanbaatar)
Adelma Bowrin             Program Assistant               EASFP Administration

Supervision/ICR
Sameer Goyal              Sr. Financial Sector Specialist   EASPR Banking sector
Lachlan Herbert Fleming   Consultant                        EASPR Payment systems
R. Gopalkrishnan          Consultant                         FPDFI  Procurement
Xiaofeng Hua              Sr. Financial Sector Specialist   EASFP Banking sector
                          Sr. Financial Management                    Financial
Haixia Li                                                   EAPFM
                          Specialist                                Management
Jinan Shi                 Sr. Procurement Specialist        EAPPR   Procurement
Tunc Tahsin Uyanik        Sector Manager                    EASFP Unit Management
Alexandra Drees-Gross     Consultant                        EASFP Banking sector




                                         30
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       US$ Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                        14                          64.93
  FY02                                        20                          85.44
  FY03                                        10                          36.62
  FY04                                        11                          32.06
  FY05                                         6                          15.94
  FY06                                         5                          15.25

                           Total:             66                         250.24
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                     0.00
  FY02                                                                     0.00
  FY03                                          2                         18.05
  FY04                                          1                          8.44
  FY05                                                                     5.08
  FY06                                         3                          23.09
  FY07                                        14                          57.70
  FY08                                        10                          57.28
  FY09                                         7                           0.00

                           Total:             37                         169.64

Note: The charges under Lending Section above after effectiveness (12/10/2002) are
primarily for supervision. They appear under Lending due to mischarging to the lending
instead of the supervision code which we could not correct in the system at the ICR stage.




                                           31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

NA

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

NA




                                      32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

MOFE: The MOFE has indicated that the Government undertook Savings Bank
privatization in 2006 through an open and transparent competitive bidding process which
selected the winner on a combined score of technical proposal and the offered price. It
argues that the successful privatization (notwithstanding the subsequent emergence of
internal fraud at the Saving Bank) was possible primarily due to the initial consultancy
advice and capacity building provided to the Government under the FCDP project.

BOM: The BOM highly appreciates that WB project coordinator's/ task teams
encouragements and prompt supportive operations of Supplier, CMA Small Systems AB
for the RTGS upgrade. They have indicated that the project could not have been
completed in the tight and short period without these encouragements and supports of all
participating parties. They would also like to note that Supplier's wide experience in
implementing RTGS systems in many countries, was one of the main factors of success.

Following is a summary of additional comments from the borrower

Supervision: Satisfactory.
The loan was effective from October 2d 2002 to May 30th 2009, during which time there
were several supervision missions. Given the complexity and breadth of the program, the
Bank team has been continuously monitoring implementation progress.

Overall Bank performance: Satisfactory.
The FCDP program maintains continuity in the reform effort both in design and dialogue
and supports the initiatives of the GoM, while mitigating against perceived risks by using
an iterative approach.

Preparation: Satisfactory.
As per discussion of quality at entry, borrower preparation was satisfactory.

Government implementation performance: Satisfactory.
Achievement of objective and outputs and government implementation performance was
satisfactory.

Implementing Agency Performance: Satisfactory.
Given achievement of objective and outputs, implementing agency performance was
satisfactory.

Key Lessons (as noted in Borrower's ICR)
 The objective of Bank assistance generally followed good practices in terms of
   reducing government ownership (component C: privatization of Savings Bank) of
   financial intermediaries; improving prudential regulation through mandatory duty of
   Zoos and Mongol Post bank to keep prudential norms of the BoM consistent with

                                            33
    international norms during project implementation. An ad hoc approach including
    payments system, commercial bank risk management and Savings bank resolution
    with an absence of "good policy" notes, and the decentralized nature of Bank
    operations have contributed to a situation in which the Bank speaks with many voices
    on important matters of financial sector reform in Mongolia. Outcomes point to the
    nee d for a stronger role in quality assurance by the sector board as well as the need
    to ensure strong support from financial sector officials in Mongolia.

   For the project to achieve a substantive institutional development impact, it is
    important to avail of the inter linkages among the various components of the project.
    To date, most of the progress has been achieved through pursuing parallel tracks.
    Financial sector reforms supported by Bank lending during the last decade can be
    associated with improvements, they have not been sufficient to bring about the
    ultimate objective of well-developed financial system in Mongolia.

   However, the Bank should recognize the important role that the financial sector could
    play in growth when the Bank shifts its focus from supporting individual financial
    institutions to supporting sector wide improvements in the financial sector through
    policy dialogue and diagnosis (FSAP). Under component C of the project "Savings
    Bank Resolution", the state owned Savings bank privatized. A Russian businessman
    with a significant stake in a local commercial bank was declared as the new owner of
    the bank. It raises the question of the consistent stance of the Bank and GoM if
    privatization was to be pursued, ownership should be concentrated in the hands of
    strategic investors, and preferably reputable foreign banks.

   An efficient, reliable payment system is an important building block for financial
    sector development. Instead, support for improving payment system in Mongolia
    came late in the cycle of Bank assistance. In Mongolia, where the Bank supported
    reforms in FY97 but didn't finance investments in payments system until about six
    years later in 2003.

   Given the long period of project implementation, it is also worth to note that the
    design of the project fund disbursement should be kept relatively simple to allow
    space to spend the fund to areas which arise in importance in a fast evolving financial
    sector environment. It is expected that a major stake of funds allocated to consultant
    service will be unutilized till the project closure. One lesson emerged during the
    project is the overly bureaucratic disbursement and procurement related bank
    approval procedures which hinders the project implementation, and sets in some
    instances the project outcome under risk exposure.

   FCDP should not to be viewed as a medium-term and time-bound external support;
    instead, as one with a perennial horizon--requiring a shift from an approach that
    focuses mostly on lending toward one that emphasizes policy dialogue underpinned
    by economic and sector work. The project already relies on the GoM's own
    institutions and commercial banks; hence, making institutional and capacity
    development in Mongolia crucial for the success of its own reform effort.

                                            34
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NA




                                     35
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank of Mongolia, Annual Report 2007, Mongolia.

American Center for Mongolian Studies website, "Savings Bank Goes to Highest
Bidder",
http://www.mongoliacenter.org/library/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=
532&Itemid=152

UB Post, "Government Takes Over Zoos Bank", November 24, 2009, Ulan Baatar,
Mongolia.
http://ubpost.mongolnews.mn/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=4064&Ite
mid=36

Government of Mongolia, Ministry of Finance, Project Coordination Office, Financial
Capacity Development Project, Draft Implementation Completion Report, June 30, 2008,
Ulan Baatar, Mongolia.

Mongolia Web, "Savings Bank Goes to Highest Bidder", November 2, 2006,
http://www.mongolia-web.com/content/view/803/2/

World Bank (2001), Mongolia  Country Assistance Strategy for the World Bank Group,
Report No: 28419-MOG, April 5, 2004, Washington, DC.

World Bank (2001), Mongolia Monthly Economic Update, October 2009, Washington,
DC.

World Bank (2001), Mongolia  Project Appraisal Document on a Development Policy
Credit, Report No. 48794-MN, June 1, 2009, Washington, DC.

World Bank (2001), Mongolia  Assessment of The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper, Report No: 22691 MOG, September 7, 2001, Washington, DC.

World Bank (2002), Mongolia  Project Appraisal Document on a Financial Capacity
Development Project Credit, Report No. 23932-MOG, May 2002, Washington, DC.

World Bank (2001), Mongolia  Project Appraisal Document for a Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit, Report No. P-7351-MOG, March 29, 2000, Washington, DC.

World Bank (2001), Mongolia  Implementation Completion Report for a Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit, Report No. 31723, March 31, 2005, Washington, DC.




                                         36
World Bank (2001-2009), Documents in Project's Electronic File, including Aide
Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, Implementation Status Reports, Project Financial
Assessments, and Project Procurement Assessments, IRIS, Washington, DC.




                                          37
             85캞                             90캞                                 95캞                                             100캞                                                                          110캞                               115캞                      120캞
                                                                                                                                                                                   105캞




                                                                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Baikal

                     To
                    Biysk
                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
           50캮                                                                                                                                                                                    Ulan-Ude                                          To              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Chita           Chita
                                                                                                                      Hvsgl
                                                                   Uvs                                                  Nuur                                                                                                                                                                       50캮
                                         Ulaangom                  Nuur
                                             Achit                                                                         Hatgal
                        Tavan Bogd Uul       Nuur
                        (4,374 m )                         UVS                     Tesiyn                            HVSGL                                                       Shbaatar                                                                Ereentsav
                                             H
                                             Ho




                                     Olgii                                                                                           Mrn
                                                                                                                                                                                     SEL ENG E
                                                                                                                                                                                     SELENGE                                                                                               To
                                              vd




                            BA Y A N-
                            BA     N-                 Hyargas                                                                                                                nge
                                               d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hailar
                                                       Nuur                                                                                                           Sele         Darhan DAR HAN -UUL
                                                                                                                                                                                          DARHAN-UUL                                                                              Hulun
                               L G II
                              LG I I                                                                                           r                                ORHON
                                                                                                                                                                      Erdenet
                                                                                                                                                                 OR HON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bayan Uul                         Nur
                                                                                                                            Ide




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 On               DORNOD
                                    Jargalant                                      HAN
                                                                           Z A V K HA                                                                        Bulgan
                                      (Khovd)          Har      Har Nuur                                                                                     BUL G AN
                                                                                                                                                             BULGAN                                                    KHENTII
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KHE NTI I                     Kherlen
                                                     Us Nuur                                                                                                                                                                                    (Choibalsan)
                                                                               Uliastai         Ha                          ARH ANG AI
                                                                                                                            ARHANGAI                                                               ULAANBAATAR                           ule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                         A
                                         A




                                                                                                      ng                                                                                                                             Ker                                         Tamsagbulag
                                                KHOVD                                                                                                                                 TV
                                                                                                     an        ay          Erdenebulgan                                                         Zuunmod
                                             l




                                                                                                                     n                                                                                            ndrhaan
                                                                                                 h


                                                                                                                              (Tsetserleg)
                                                                                              av



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    120캞
                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                            Dz




                                                                     Tsagaan-Olom
                                                tt




                                                                                                                                ts                                                                                                        Baruun-Urt
                                                                                                                                      .
                                                     a
                                                     a




                                                                                    Esonbulag                                                                                                                 GOVISMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                              GOVISMBER




                                                                                                                                                    GAI
           45캮                                                                     (Altai)                      Bayankhongor                                                                                  Choir                               KBAATAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S KBA ATA R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SKBA
                                                        y
                                                        y




                                                                   GO       AL T AI
                                                                   GO V I - A L TA I                                                                             Arvaiheer




                                                                                                                                                 V  RK H A N
                                                                                                                                                                                               Mandalgovi                                          Hongor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45캮
                                                                     M                                                                                                              DUNDG OV '
                                                                                                                                                                                    DUNDGOV'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sainshand
                                                                           o                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHINA
                                                                               u                     BAYANKHONGOR
                                                                                                      AYANKHONGOR
                                                                                                     BAYANKHONGO
                                                                                      n
                                                                                                t                                                                                                              DORNOGOV'
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DOR NOGOV'
                                                                                                      a                                                                   Dalandzadgad                                                               To
                                                                                                               i                                                                  TAVAN TOLGOI
                                                                                                                                                                        Dalandzadgad                             t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jining               115캞
                                                                                                                      n                                                                                      e r
                                                                                                                              s                                  MNGOV'                                e s e r t
                                                                                                                                                                                                  OYU TOLGOI
                                                                                                                                                                                                    D e s
                                                                                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                                                                                o b i
                                                                                                                                                                                                     D                                                         M ONG OL IA
                                                                                       CHINA                                                                                  G o b
                                                                                                                                                                              G                                                                                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                             MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE (AIMAG) CAPITALS
           40캮
                                                                                                                              To                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                             Hami
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
                                                                                            0              100            200             300 Kilometers                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40캮

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAILROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 36948
                                                                                            0             50        100         150          200 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE (AIMAG) BOUNDARIES
MAY 2009




           90캞                                          95캞                                                      100캞                                                       105캞                                         110캞                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
