Report No. PID8040
Project  Name                    Slovenia-National Health System...
Modernization Project
Region                           ECA
Sector                           HNP
Project ID                       SIPE51418
Borrower                         Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health
Stefanova 5
1000 Ljubljana
Slovenia
Contact: Dr. Tanja Mate
Phone: 38661 1786076
Fax: 38661 1786058
E-mail: Tanja.Mate@Gov.Si
Health Insurance Institute
Miklosi eva 24
1000
Ljubljana
Slovenia
Contact: Mr. Darjan Petri
Phone: 38661 1721200
Fax: 38661 312667
E-mail: darjan.petric@zzzs.si
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           April 30, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         July 19, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 25, 2000
1.      Country and Sector Background
Slovenia is a country in southeastern Europe on the Balkan peninsula.
Formerly a constituent part of Yugoslavia, it declared its independence in
June 1991 and in May 1992 joined the United Nations. It covers 20,254 square
kilometers and has a population of about 1.97 million. Following
independence, Slovenia adopted a number of economic reforms including a bank
reform, market reform, and privatization. In 1991 a new currency, the tolar,
was introduced at a fixed exchange rate to the German Mark. Slovenia joined
the IMF in 1993, and has access to international capital markets at very
favorable terms. Slovenia, which was already the most prosperous among the
republics of the former Yugoslavia, now enjoys the highest per capita income
level among transition economies: US$ 9,160, and its GDP growth averaged 3.8
percent per year from 1993-1996.
Notwithstanding the strong features of the Slovenian health sector,
Slovenia is neither in a position to maintain the status quo, nor even to
continue its heretofore measured pace of health sector reforms. Indeed, a
number of powerful, and largely inexorable, forces threaten to unravel
Slovenia's delicate balance and make manifest the latent crisis.



- First, the population is rapidly aging, while also living longer. This
has the effect of steadily increasing the demand for resource-intensive
health care services. The trend also necessitates an expensive
transformation in the mix of health service supply to meet the shifting
character of the demand.
- Second, modernization is also shifting the epidemiological characteristics
of disease, away from a preponderance of communicable diseases to chronic
diseases related to lifestyle / behavior (e.g., cancers, cardio-vascular
disease, injuries, etc.,). This trend too raises the demand for resource-
intensive and long-term treatments which necessitate an expensive
transformation in the mix of supply-side capabilities.
- Third, the dramatic shift in orientations and expectations, which has
accompanied the political transformation from communism, has established
new benchmarks and norms -- for the public, as well as for health care
professionals. EU accession, of which rising expectations is part and
parcel, also creates external pressures to conform to EU standards. With
Germany, Switzerland and The Netherlands as Slovenia's new benchmarks, the
demand curves for health services and the supporting infrastructure is
certainly shifting outwards. Even if Slovenia could successfully
accommodate this "one-time" shifts in demand, it still faces a continuous
outward shift, as a result of rising income levels. With Slovene incomes
likely to converge on western European levels in the coming years, the
high income elasticity of health expenditures ensures continued fiscal
pressures.
- Fourth, Slovenia is largely an international price-taker in health, with
the notable exception of health care labor. Globally, price trends in
health materials and technologies have been upwards at a relatively fast
rate. Although it is hard to predict the combined long-term effects of
global supply and global demand, betting on relative deflation in health
care tradeables appears unwise. Not only does Slovenia face relative
inflation in health tradeables, it also faces a likely inflation in "non-
tradable" health care labor. In comparison to relative wages in EU
countries, relative wages for Slovene health care professionals are low
(labor costs being only about 50 percent of sector expenditures, in
contrast with 70 percent in high income market economies). In the coming
years, the EU will continuously "export" its labor market conditions to
Slovenia, through market and administrative channels. As a result,
Slovenian health sector tradable and traditional non-tradable prices will
most likely rise relative to the general price level. This will compound
the fiscal pressures coming from the previously discussed secular trends.
- Fifth, in addition to the price and expectation impacts, EU accession also
entails international obligations to participate in cross-border health
service and financing arrangements. With an increasingly mobile EU
citizenry (forecast to be approximately 10 percent of the population), the
obligations represent additional costs for Slovenia (as well as cross-
border savings opportunities that need preparatory investments to reap).
The Slovenian authorities have come to grasp the magnitude of the threat
faced in the health sector and have been grappling with the issues and the
options. Like virtually every other country in the world, Slovenia is a
considerable distance from having a fully articulated and proven reform
-2 -



strategy. Nevertheless, the authorities do understand the basic ingredients:
(a) health policy prioritization; (b) health finance reform; (c) increased
institutional accountability and autonomy; (d) outcomes-based incentives; and
(e) increased attention to public health and behavioral determinants of
mortality and morbidity.
Fabricating a coherent reform strategy out of these ingredients is a
daunting task. The international experience in these areas is quite mixed
and highly dependent on many characteristics of the subject country. The
ingredients, and processes through which they lead to improved health
outcomes and value per unit of expenditure, are complex and highly
interdependent. Faced with these challenges, yet blessed by the "luxury" of
a latent but not manifest crisis, the authorities are committed to reform -
but only reforms that are well-founded, well-calibrated and evolutionary.
Slovenia does not need and, for reasons rooted in its political economy, will
not make radical, "leap-of-faith" reforms in the health sector -
particularly those that would seriously undermine strongly-held values of
social solidarity.
Thus, the task ahead of the Slovenian authorities is to promptly
introduce a
process change that:
(a)     continuously enhances the existing system's ability to achieve
acceptable levels of health outcomes within the available resource
envelope -- thus containing the immediate pressures on the health
system; and
(b) provides the basis for designing, developing and implementing
evolutionary structural reforms that, over the long term, will
improve health outcomes in line with citizen expectations, yet also
commensurate with income growth.
(c)     tightens the focus of the health sector's institutions on their
core functions: (a) MOH on policy-making and priority-setting;
(b) Health Insurance Institute on effective and efficient health
service purchasing; (c) Public Health Institute on health
surveillance and analytical foundations for policy; (d) health
providers on evidence-based health management; and (e) MOF on
fiscal monitoring.
Possibly the most promising lever for furthering these short and long
term objectives is a major upgrade in the quality, coverage and accessibility
of information in and about the health sector.     Given, among other things,
the critical importance of contracting, this leverage point is valid of how
far and how fast Slovenia moves toward greater reliance on the private sector
in health.
Health is a profoundly information-intensive sector -- in planning,
provision, management and consumption. The current situation, at the policy
level, provider level, at the management level and at the consumption level,
is deficient in a number of critical ways. The various health sector
institutions do create and transmit substantial amounts of information
regarding: (a) who was diagnosed with what; (b) who received what services,
and where; (c) who provided what services, and where; as well as (d) what
resources where utilized, by what provider unit. However, these information
is not brought together and combined with sufficiently detailed activity
information of how (and how well) the services were performed and the health
- 3 -



results. This pattern replicates at most every level of the health sector
(from the ward level to the national policy-making level). This, among other
things, significantly hinders the key sector institutions in performing their
essential roles.
At this juncture, the MOH lacks appropriate and timely information to
fulfil its priority-settings, strategic-planning and policy-making functions.
Whereas the MOH continues to publish technically sound policy papers, it does
not have sufficient information on the character of the epidemiological
transition, the burden of disease or the cost-effectiveness of alternative
protocols, modes of care delivery, etc.
The Public Health Institute collects a large volume of epidemiological
data (much of it on communicable disease), but has difficulty to process and
analyze the information in a manner that can inform the policy priority
process.
The Health Insurance Institute processes a wealth of procedure and
expenditure information. However, by virtue of its central pricing /
purchasing role, it has become the primary health policy maker by default.
Although such a policy-setting role can, in practice, never be fully
extinguished, stronger priority-setting capacity in the MOH (with the Public
Health Institute's support) would allow the Health Insurance Institute to
focus on cost-effectiveness and careful administration of health service
purchases. Here too, the Health Insurance Institute is hindered by the
absence of a complete "cycle" of health status, health procedure, health
resources and health outcome information regarding the specific individual
subject of health care. To help close this loop and improve the accuracy of
its administration, the Health Insurance Institute has launched a national
health "smart" card project. This will help strengthen the information link
to individual. However, to complete and integrate the full set of health-
related information requires a complementary inter-agency health information
network which is built on health information standards and is supported by
conforming institution-specific management and operational systems.
At the provider level, the individual institutions (e.g., hospitals,
clinics, private practitioners, laboratories, etc.,) create and use a large
amount of procedural and resource information. However, at this level the
full cycle of information related to individuals is also typically missing.
(E.g., resource information may be absent or aggregated at the unit level.
Alternatively, quality of care indicators and/or benchmarks may be
unavailable, etc.,). More generally, providers do not have the complete of
information and tools that allow them to take on greater autonomy and
decision-making responsibilities, such as making efficient and effective
responses to Health Insurance Institute pricing and purchasing arrangements.
Making in-roads into these information deficiencies can lead to notable
"one-time" improvements in efficiency, effectiveness and quality of health
care services, largely within the same structural setting. Many
inefficiencies in the existing system can be addressed, by making them
explicit and visible. Many of the changes in the incentive structure and
behaviors necessary to obtain these efficiency gains can be achieved through
better information management and better information dissemination. Where
better information convincingly demonstrates better outcomes, most health
providers will have the incentive to respond - as, for example, demonstrated
- 4 -



by the information- and incentive-based initiatives which have led shorted
waiting times at the Ljubljana University Medical Center. Of course, "low-
hanging fruit" can only be picked once. Sustained improvements in health
outcomes, which match permanently rising expectations and do not outstrip
income growth, will require more systemic use of performance-based contracts,
priority-based selective purchasing, as well as greater attention to and
illumination of performance outliers. In the longer term, well-planned and
well-executed structural change will be required.
Due its complexity and sensitivity to country conditions, health sector
reform is a highly exploratory process. Moreover, there is no proven,
"importable" model of comprehensive health sector reform. This fact does
not diminish the urgency of health sector reforms in Slovenia, however. But
it does underscore the critical importance of developing an information base
and a corresponding information infrastructure as necessary conditions for
effective reform design, development and implementation. As an important
precondition to embarking on a program of long-term structural changes, there
is a strong urgency to launch the necessary investment program to upgrade
this infrastructure and the nation's health information assets.
2.      Project Development Objectives
Increasing performance (i.e., efficiency, effectiveness and quality of
service) of a structurally reformed health services sector. Sustained
performance of health service sector over the medium term (i.e., 7 years)
and a well-substantiated long-term structural reform strategy formulated.
3.      Project Description
Based on an Adaptable Program Loan, the project comprises two phases.
APL PHASE 1 encompasses:
- pilot implementations of integrated operational and management
information systems in three hospitals, including the largest
secondary / tertiary / teaching / research hospital in Slovenia
plus, one large and one small district secondary hospitals (based
on common information and data structure standards, while
leveraging existing sub-systems).
- implementation of the National Health Information Clearinghouse.
- detailed planning, design, evaluation and management activities.
APL PHASE 2 encompasses:
- national roll-out of the new model hospital information systems.
- national roll-out of systems to support health centers and other
health sector facilities.
- extension and updating of the National Health Information
Clearinghouse.
- detailed planning, management and evaluation activities.
4.      Project Financing:
Total project cost is estimated at about US$20.0 million, out of which
US$ 8.0 will be financed by the Slovenian Government and US$12.0 million by
the World Bank (IBRD). The project would finance institution building and
project management, more specifically system design, pilot implementations
(University Medical Center, Maribor and Jesenice District Hospitals) and
clearinghouse establishment.
-5-



5.      Project Implementation Arrangements
Implementation period:    6 years, including 3 years in PHASE 1 and 3
years in PHASE 2. The Project will be implemented by the MOH with critical
support provided by the Health Insurance Institute. Inter-agency
coordination and executive decision-making will be exercised by a Steering
Committee. Membership of the Steering Committee is:
Dr. Dunja Piskur Kosmac        -      Ministry of Health --State
(Chair)       -      Secretary
Dr. Tanja Mate (Secretary)     -      Ministry of Health
Mr. Mitja Rogac                -      Institute of Public Health
Mr. Darjan Petric              -      Health Insurance Institute
Mr. Simon Vrhuenec             -      University Medical Centre
-      Ljubljana
Mr. Cregor Cerkvenik           -      University Medical Centre
-      Ljubljana  / Secretary to
the Medical Council
Ms. Helena Jagodic             -      Ministry of Health
Dr. Miran Rems                 -      General Hospital Jesenice
Dr. Joze Ferk                  -      General Hospital Maribor
Ms. Irena Sodin                -      Ministry of Finance
To coordinate project activities and carry out day-to-day project
management responsibilities, the MOH will establish and staff, on a
contractual basis, a Project Management Unit (PMU). A Project Director will
head the PMU and report to the State Secretary and be guided by the Steering
Committee. In addition to the Project Director, the PMU will be staffed with
clerical support, financial management support, procurement support, legal
support, as well as one or two health informatics experts. As required,
these will be supplemented by external assistance on specific short-term
issues.
Supported by the PMU and subordinate to the Steering Committee, a set of
technical working groups will handle the substantive technical work of the
project design, development and implementation supervision. The working
groups will prepare the conceptual design and establish the data structure
standards for the National Health Information System and will plan for the
establishment of the National Health Information Clearinghouse as a service
organization.
- Working Group - 1: Coordination. Comprised on the chairpersons of the
other working groups, as well as representatives of the Steering Committee
and technical advisors as needed, the Coordination Working Group will
coordinate the work of the other groups, make determinations on common
conceptual issues, make determination on cross-cutting issues, such as
alternative institutional arrangements, and be responsible for technical
- 6 -



issues in the establishment of the Clearinghouse. The Coordination
Working Group will have a sub-committee for coordination and a sub-
committee for technological decision-making.
- Working Group - 2:    Subject of Care.  The Subject of Care Working Group
will formulate the shared data structures for patient and patient-group
identification information, including data handling in accordance with the
Slovenian and EU legal environment.
- Working Group - 3: Health Characteristics. The Health Characteristics
Working Group will formulate the shared data structures for the health
characteristics of the subject of care (e.g., laboratory results of a
patient). These will be based on existing national and international
nomenclatures.
- Working Group - 4: Health Care Activities. The Health Care Activities
Working Group will formulate the shared data structures and rules for data
handling of all medical and health related activities (e.g., surgical
interventions and medication). These will be based on existing national
and international nomenclatures.
- Working Group - 5: Resources. The Resources Working Group will formulate
the shared data structures for all resources used in medical and health
services (e.g., human resources, equipment, consumables, etc.,). These
will be based on existing national and international nomenclatures.
- Working Group - 6: Authorization. The Authorization Working Group will
formulate the shared data structures and rules for authorized access and
use of health information, including the Health Information Clearinghouse.
These will be based on existing national and international standards and
be synchronized with the responsible national and international umbrella
organizations.
To ensure timely closure of the technical work, remunerated formal
contracts shall govern the participation of the working group members.
Contingent on institutional and political factors to be resolved in the
design phase, the Project may lead to the creation of an independent public
agency, the National Health Information Clearinghouse. The Clearinghouse
will operate as a "utility" and intermediate the exchange of health
information in Slovenia (and, after Accession, with health sector entities in
other EU member states). Technically, this will greatly reduce the cost and
difficulty of establishing and maintaining a vast web of bilateral
information channels among health sector entities, by reducing the number of
channels and standardizing the form, content, security and technologies.
Governance and financing are two inter-linked and critical challenges in
the establishment and operation of the Clearinghouse. Each health sector
participant has a different set of objectives, requirements and constraints.
Balancing these, especially among agencies of differing size and influence,
will be critical to the success of the Project. Although, on technical
grounds, either the Institute for Health Insurance or Public Health Institute
could make strong cases to house the Clearinghouse, this arrangement would
likely not lead to the balance of interests required to gain sector-wide
acceptance for the model and to sustain it in the long run. Similarly, the
method of capitalizing and funding the operations of the Clearinghouse will
be need careful development. Although financing the Clearinghouse through
the Institute for Health Insurance is a natural option, this is likely to
lead to an imbalance in the governance of the Clearinghouse. Developing a
mixed financing model will be a critical part of the detailed project design
and development process.
-7-



6.      Lessons Learned From Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The project design draws on a number of other Bank-financed projects in
the health sector and/or projects with information systems investments that
are central to the design and success of the project. These include health /
health informatics projects in Hungary, Poland, Croatia, Turkey, and FYR
Macedonia, as well as information system dependent projects in Croatia and
Latvia.
The positive and negative lessons of virtually every information systems
project which the Bank has been involved in underscore the critical
importance of strong project management capacity. Information system
projects are highly complex technical and institutional undertakings. This
requires skills sets which are rather scarce in most health sector entities,
especially public health agencies. First class informatics project
management skills need to be obtained from the market, due to the lack of
them in the relevant agencies and the chronic non-competitiveness of public
sector wages in the informatics area.
To capture the full benefits from health sector automation, the systems
must be designed and implemented as coherent wholes even though they span
multiple agencies. For example, health insurance automation is incomplete
unless the hospital and other care-giving entities have internal systems that
can link patient information with resource and financial information.
Reciprocally, hospital information systems cannot properly implement cost-
accounting systems without a stable and workable finance model to track.
More generally, outcomes-based care and financial systems cannot effectively
operate, unless information about the individual can effectively move with
the individual as the person passes through the health care system (e.g.,
primary care to secondary/tertiary and back to primary care entities). This
requires a sector-wide information systems master plan plus a coordinated,
cross-cutting implementation.
Even with a sector-wide strategy and implementation plan, the key
systems are implemented in specific agencies. The objectives, requirements
and constraints of each specific entity need to be respected and reflected in
the system implementation. In addition, the implementation plans must
recognize and compensate for the chronic lack of information system project
management capacities at the level of the specific institutions. In
particular, among the most scarce skills associated with information system
project management is the capacity to plan for and affect the broad range of
changes in an organization which modern information systems require or
induce. This includes changes in procedures and internal organization. It
also includes strategies to over come resistance to change (both inherent
resistance to any change and resistance to change prompted by shifting roles,
responsibilities, and powers).
Sector-wide master plan and coordinated implementations require
balancing differing opinions. This necessitates vehicles for consultation
and consensus-building. These vehicles must, however, lead to closure. This
requires building working groups with the proper representation. It requires
highly-respected and impartial "facilitators". It also requires clear terms
of reference, with milestones and schedules, and compensation tied to the
achievement of the work. In addition, the use of international health
informatics standards (e.g., CEN TC251 HISA, and EHCRA) can help achieve
- 8 -



closure, through their neutrality and the avoidance of "wheel re-invention".
Most major automation projects are, in effect, agency modernization
projects. Thus, information system investments must usually be accompanied
by complementary investments in procedural re-design and management capacity
building. These investments are strongly mutually dependant for success.
They are also very supervision-intensive from the Bank's prospective. A
decision to proceed with such a project must be accompanied by a decision to
countenance supervision cost ratios that are at the high end of Bank-financed
projects.
7.      Poverty Category
The project does not directly target poverty alleviation. By
strengthening the information base and information infrastructure for the
health sector as a whole, the Project will not clearly advantage or
disadvantage any narrowly-defined social groups. Nevertheless, as a
precursor and enabler of long-term structural reforms in the health sector,
the Project will help ensure the long-term viability and sustainability of
health care services in Slovenia. By helping to avert a crisis in the health
sector, the Project will help ensure dependent and vulnerable segments of the
population are protected. Also, by facilitating structural changes in the
supply-side capabilities of the Slovenian health sector the Project will
enable Slovenia to increase the capacities to provide women's health
services, as well as greater capacity to provide geriatric care services, in
line with an aging population.
8.      Environmental Aspects
The project has been rated "C" for environmental aspects. It involves
no construction or use of natural resources and leads to no environmental
discharges. In so far that the Project leads to greater illumination of
health sector resource use and more efficient management of such resource
usage, it should indirectly contribute to environmentally sustainable
economic development.
9.      Project Benefits
Project benefits and the beneficiaries include:
- The general population, including dependent and vulnerable persons, would
benefit from improved health status.
- Taxpayers, insurance premium payers, and health service co-payers would
benefit from greater health value per tolar paid (through, among other
things, clear policy priorities, more selective purchasing, as well as
greater competition and accountability).
- Health sector managers at the policy-making, institutional and operational
levels (national and local), would benefit from greater efficacy in their
work and greater job-satisfaction (through, among other things, improved
decision-making tools and authorities, and streamlined procedures).
- Health care professionals would benefit from greater efficacy in their
work and greater job-satisfaction (through, among other things, evidence-
based medicine and automation-reduced administrative burdens).
- Health care service recipients would benefit from improved quality of
health service (through, among other things, shorter waiting lists).
-9-



10.     Contact Point
Armin Fidler
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-0162
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 13, 1999.
- 10 -



