Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19865-SI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 9 MILLION (USD 9.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
December 28, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD)
Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova,
Slovak Republic and Slovenia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 22, 1999)
Currency Unit = Tolar
189 Tolar= US$ 1
US$ 1 =.0053
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHIC           Australian Health Insurance Commission         IPH      Institute of Public Health also referred to as Public Health Institute (PHI)
ALOS           Average Length of Stay                         IS       Intemational Shopping
APL            Adaptable Program Loan                         IT       Information Technology
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy                    LACI    Loan and Credit Initiative
CEN            European Center of Standards                   LCS      Least-Cost Selection
COL            Collaboration                                  LIL      Leaming and Innovation Loan
CON            Consultations                                  MCS      Medical Chamber of Slovenia
CONSENSUS    EU Financed Social Security Reform Program       MOF      Ministry of Finance
CQ             Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications  MOH     Ministry of Health
CY             Calendar Year                                  NHIC    National Heafth Information Clearinghouse
DC             Direct Contracting                             NPV      Net Present Value
DGR            Diagnostic Resource Group                      NS       National Shopping
EAG            Extemal Advisory Group                         OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
ECA            Europe and Central Asia                        PAT      Project Assurance Team
ERR            Economic Rate of Retum                         PHARE   EU Financed Technical Assistance Programs
EU             European Union                                 PHC      Primary Health Care
FRR            Financial Rate of Retum                        PHI      Public Health Institute also referred to as Institute of Public Health (IPH)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product                         PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
GOS            Govemment of Slovenia                          PIP      Project Implementation Plan
GP             General Practitioner                           PM-PS   Project Management and Professional Support Unit
GPN            General Procurement Notice                     PMR      Project Management Report
HC             Health Council                                 PMU      Project Management Unit
HFA            Health For All                                 PPP      Purchase Power Parity
HIIS           Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia         PSR      Project Supervision Rating
HISA           Health Information Systems Architure           QBS      Quality-Based Selection
HR             Human Resources                                QCBS    Quality and Cost-Based Selection
HSMP           Health Sector Management Project               SFB      Selection under a Fixed Budget
IAS            Intemational Auditing Standards                SOE      Statement of Expenditure
IBRD           Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and       SPN      Specific Procurement Notice
Development
ICB            Intemational Competitive Bidding               TC251   Technical Committee 251
IDA            Intemational Development Association           UMCL    University Medical Center of Ljubljana
IFAC           International Federation of Accountants        VAT      Value Added Tax
WHO      World Health Organization
Vice President:       Johannes Linn
Country Director:        Roger Grawe
Sector Manager:         Annette Dixon
Program Team Leader:           Amnlin Fidler



Republic of Slovenia
Health Sector Management Project
CONTENTS
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                               Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     3
3. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    14
3. Benefits and target population                                                   15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        17
2. Major related projects financed by the Barik and other development agencies      18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      23
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                         23
2. Financial                                                                        24
3. Technical                                                                        25
4. Institutional                                                                    28
5. Social                                                                           29
6. Environmental assessment                                                         31
7. Participatory approach                                                           32
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   33



2. Critical risks                                                                     33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     34
G. Main loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           35
2. Other                                                                              35
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          38
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description Slovenia Health Sector Management Project          43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         51
Annex 4: Economic Analysis/Main Assumption/Results/Sensitivity Analysis/Conclusion       52
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               55
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     67
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                       68
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  70
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            71
Annex i 1: Draft Policy Note                                                             73
MAP(S)
IBRD 26882



SLOVENIA
HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: December 28, 1999                            Team Leader: Armin H. Fidler
Country Manager/Director: Roger W. Grawe           Sector Manager/Director: Annette Dixon
Project ID: P051418                                Sector(s): HB - Basic Health
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan        Implementation Period           Sorrower
_______                                                  (Bank FY)
IBRD            Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m        Date        Date
APL 1         9.50    71.4     3.80       13.30    06/03/2000   06/30/2004 Republic of Slovenia
Loan/
Credit
APL 2         3.40    21.1    12.70       16.10    01/01/2004   06/30/2007 Republic of Slovenia
Loan]
Credit
APL 3
Loan/
Credit
APL 4
Loan/
Credit   _____
jTotal    1  12.90   1        16.50   1   29.40                             __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _
Project Financing Data
E Loan          El Credit       El Grant        IIGuarantee    D~ Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 9.50
Proposed Terms: O To be defined  El Multicurrency 1Z Single currency Euro
O Standard Variable Z Fixed         El LIBOR-based
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85% p.a. for four
years; then 0.75% p.a. thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
Governmnent                                                     3.40            0.40          3.80
IBRD                                                            4.80            4.70          9.50
IDA
Total:                                                          8.20            5.10         13.30



Borrower: REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
Responsible agency:
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, HEALTH INSURANCE INSTITUTE OF SLOVENIA
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Health (MOH)
Address: Stefanova 5 SLO-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia
Contact Person: Dr. Tanja Mate
Tel: +386-61 178-6076                 Fax: +386-61 178-6058
Email: Tanja.Mate(Gov.Si
Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia (HIIS)
Address: Miklosiceva 24 SLO-1507 Ljubljana, Slovenia
Contact Person: Mr. Darjan Petric
Tel: +386-61 172-1200                 Fax: +386-61 312-182
Email: darjan.petric@zzzs.si
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Address: Beethovnova 11 SLO- 1502 Ljubljana, Slovenia
Contact Person: Ms. Irena Sodin
Tel: +386-61 178-6627                 Fax: +386-61 125-2067
Email: Irena.Sodin@mfg.sigov.mail.si
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
F       J 201            2 002.       200; 2004                   
Annual      1.5          2.8          2.8         2.4
Cumulative     1.5           4.3          7.1         9.5
Project implementation period: 3.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
OCS APL PAD F9D9. Oe'9,, SO2
-2-



A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
Program Purpose:     Sustain the performance of the health care system, in the face of adverse
demographic and epidemiological trends, increases in health resource prices and rising public and health
provider expectations -- while maintaining long-term fiscal sustainability. This program is based on a
Development Program Letter addressing the key policy issues (see Annex 1 1). This letter is based upon the
Ministry of Health's White Paper on Health Sector Strategy which has been developed for the Parliament's
approval. It also draws on Slovenia's EU Accession Strategy furnished to the European Commission.
Program Phasing:     This program will be supported by a two phase APL. Phase I introduces the
definitions, technical standards, institutional arrangements, training and pilot tests necessary to implement
an initial set of health reforms and conduct pilots for an integrated National Health Information System.
Phase II, based on pilot evaluations, will implement a national roll-out of health information systems,
centered around a National Health Information Clearinghouse (NHIC). Both phases provide support for
the continuing definition and implementation of health policies, based on the approved national health
sector strategy.
Phase I                        Phase II
US$ 13.3 million total cost (inclusive US$ 16.1 million total cost (inclusive
of front-end fee)              of front-end fee)
Implementation Period:         June 2000 - Dec. 2003         Jan. 2004 - Dec. 2007
Periodic Monitoring:           semester: March-September     semester: March-September
APL Trigger Assessment:        June 2003
Appraisal of Second APL Phase:   September 2003
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Phase I:
*   The Ministry of Health (MOH) provides health purchasing priorities to the Health Insurance
Institute of Slovenia (HIIS), on evidence-based and health status principles, based upon
appropriately processed health information data by the Institute of Public Health (IPH).
-   The participating Health Providers in the system pilot, including the University Medical Center of
Ljubljana (UMCL), adopt improved business and case management practices, based on purchasing
incentives from the Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia (HIIS) and updated practice norms
issued by the MOH.
Phase II:
*   The participating sector institutions (MOH, HIIS, IPH, UMCL) use the integrated national health
information system to sharpen their respective core functions, more efficiently and effectively
manage health care financing and service provision, and, thus, securing fiscal balance, equity and
quality in the health sector.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
CAS Goal:
* Health sector is fiscally sustainable: publicly-financed health expenditures are maintained at a
constant share of GDP (below 8%) in the face of fiscal pressures while, simultaneously, health
sector performance is maintained.
-3 -



Program:
* Mortality and morbidity rates (as expressed in burden of disease indicators) and health service
indicators converge to EU average -- by 2010 (from 1999 baseline data).
* Universal access to health care and equity within the system is maintained, while service standards,
quality of services and user satisfaction continue to improve (from 1999 baseline data).
*   Institutional and legal framework of the health and health insurance sector attain compliance with
the stipulations of the acquis communautaire as pre-conditions for EU accession -- by 2004.
Project Phase I:
* A refined health services payment system (including HIIS's hospital reimbursement model)
pilot-tested, evaluated and implemented -- by 2003.
* Updated health care capacity management methods adopted and introduced in participating health
institutions, based on training, agreements on definitions and standards -- by 2003.
*   National health information standards introduced and adopted, within the Health Information
Systems Architecture (HISA) framework of the European Center of Standards (CEN) Technical
Committee 251 (TC251) and in conformance with EU data protection norms -- by 2003.
Project Phase II:
*   National Health Information Clearinghouse (NHIC) established and operational at national level,
rationalizing the existing information interchange channels among health sector institutions -- by
2006.
*   Clinical, financial and administrative information is available from at least two district hospitals
and respective primary health care catchment areas to produce comparative performance, financial
and asset management, and accounting reports -- by 2006.
-   HIIS Smart Card integrated into new sector information architecture, facilitating improved case
management, pharmaceutical prescription tracking, preventive care monitoring, and information
security -- by 2006.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex l)
Document number: R97-111                         Date of llatest CAS discussion: 06/10/97
The 1997 CAS centers on four key development objectives for achieving high, sustainable growth on the
road to European Union accession: (1) Restructuring public finances; (2) Completing the economy's
systemic transformation; (3) Ensuring social sustainability; and (4) Achieving environmentally
sustainable growth. As part of this focus, the Bank agreed with the client to support the following: (a) As
part of state asset rnanagement program, identify and implemert improved ownership, management and
institutional structures for health services; and (b) Health and Social Security Finance Reform to ensure a
sustainable financing base, quality and accessibility standards, and cost-effectiveness.
Health Sector CAS Deliverables:  In parallel with project preparation, the Australian Health
Insurance Commission (AHIC) carried out a situational analysis and long-term fiscal sustainability study
of the health sector (including a computerized simulation model). Together with a 1998 sector paper, this
study addresses a critical CAS Progress Benchmark. The studies also served as a starting point for the
technical design of the Program and provided an analytical foundation to evaluate the economic impact of
the Program (Annex 4). The preparation of the Project itself attains the CAS Progress Benchmark
specifically calling for the preparation of such a project. The program investments address other CAS
Progress Benchmarks (economic analysis of the health sector; and options for institutional, managerial and
financing) by creating the information base necessary to analyze, formulate, initiate, monitor and fine-tune
a sustained program of incremental health sector reforms. This reform program will be based on a policy
agenda communicated in the Government's "White Paper" and the approved EU Accession strategy. A
-4 -



parallel policy dialog, under the Bank's sector program, will strengthen the links between the APL and the
reform program.
The Program in the CAS context:   The Program will strengthen health sector management at each
level and enhance the quality and effectiveness of service provision systems across all health sub-sectors.
By virtue of its support for policy analysis (national health accounts, burden of disease analysis); policy
making (data for benchmarking and evaluating trials) and policy implementation (surveillance, purchasing,
evidence-based medicine), the fully integrated, national health information architecture will be a key
instrument for conducting well sequenced, incremental health sector reforms to obtain the CAS Goals of
fiscally sustainable health financing.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background: Slovenia is a small country of a population of 2 million that gained independence from
Yugoslavia in 1991. With a GDP/capita (at PPP) of about US$14,000, Slovenia is generally not
comparable with the ECA transitional economies. This is true also for the performance of the health care
sector. Health indicators have improved steadily and are approaching EU averages with countries of twice
the per capital income levels of Slovenia.
After 1992, major reform steps have been implemented. The Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia (HIIS -
originally founded in 1889) was reestablished. Voluntary insurance and co-payments arrangements were
launched (voluntary insurance accounts for almost 20% of total health budget). Free medical practice and
the choice of a personal primary care giver was introduced. And the Medical Chamber of Slovenia (MCS)
was reestablished.
Until recently, the fiscal situation of the health sector was in balance, albeit at comparatively high
expenditures of 8-9% of GDP. Due to increasing cost pressures, however, cracks are appearing in the
surface of the Slovenian health system. These call for a more rigorous, coordinated reform course. That
said, in comparison to other formally socialist economies, the health sector crisis in Slovenia is generally
latent and not manifest as a broadly recognized problem. Service providers are sophisticated and well
equipped with modem health technologies. Equity and access to health care in Slovenia are among the best
in the world. Poverty and gender discrimination have not shown to be major issues in the health care
sector. Nevertheless, Slovenia is neither in a position to maintain the status quo, nor even to continue its
measured pace of health sector reforms. Indeed, a number of potent, and largely inexorable, forces threaten
to unravel Slovenia's delicate balance and make manifest the latent crisis.
* Policy decisions in the last two years increased expenditure pressures to the point where modest deficits
have emerged among health care providers and may occur in the HIIS, in 1999. These decisions
include: high real increases in doctor salaries moving them towards parity with other professions;
introduction of VAT on pharmaceuticals and other costs of supplies; and transfer of responsibility to
the HIIS for cash benefits payable to the unemployed during periods of sickness.
* Openness and globalization of the economy, partly caused by EU accession, triggers cost pressures
from innovation in health care technology. This factor drives expenditure pressures in most EU and
OECD countries. Slovenia faces pressures to spend more on modem, but costly pharmaceuticals,
medical devices and procedures. The availability of technology interacts with rapid population aging,
thus increasing the demand for resource-intensive health care services.
* Due to the demographic transition, the population is rapidly aging (14% are over 65 years), and the
country experiences negative population growth since 1993. This trend necessitates an expensive
- 5 -



transformation in the mix of health service supply to meet shifting demand. In addition, this
demographic changes implies in the long tern a reduced contribution base for social insurance and
further exacerbate resource constraints for the Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia (HIIS).
*   Modernization is also shifting the epidemiological characteristics of disease: leading to a completed
epidemiological transition, away from a preponderance of communicable diseases to chronic diseases
related to lifestyle / behavior (cancers, cardio-vascular disease, injuries, etc.,). This trend too raises the
demand for resource-intensive and long-term treatments which necessitate an expensive transformation
in the mix of supply-side capabilities.
*   The shift in  consumer orientations and  expectations, which  has accompanied the political
transformation, has established new benchmarks and norms -- for the public, as well as for health care
professionals.  EU accession creates external flressures to conform  to EU  standards. Economic
prosperity, improved education and information raises demand for health services and the supporting
technologies and infrastructure.
*   Slovenia is a price-taker in health, with the exception of health care labor. Globally, inflation in health
care costs has outpaced consumer price inflation; a pattern also observed in Slovenia. There are signs
that health care labor costs will further increase. In comparison to EU countries, relative wages for
Slovene health care professionals are low (about 50 percent of sector expenditures, in contrast with 70
percent in high income market economies).
* In addition to the price and expectation impacts, EU accession also entails international obligations to
participate in cross-border health service and financing arrangements. With an increasingly mobile EU
citizenry (forecast to be approximately 10 percent of the population), the obligations represent
additional costs for Slovenia (as well as cross-border savings opportunities that need preparatory
investments to reap).
Health Sector Strategy of the Government: Slovenian authorities have come to grasp with the magnitude of
the fiscal threat faced in the health sector and have been grappling with the issues and the options. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) has formulated a long-term strategy that is outlined in a "White Paper"
currently awaiting parliamentary approval. Furthermore, the Government has outlined a coherent sector
strategy as part of the EU accession strategy furnished to the EU Commission. The Government's Policy
Note (Annex 11) outlines this sector strategy in the context of the proposed lending operation. The basic
ingredients of this strategy are centered around: (i) hospitals; (ii) primary care; (iii) health financing and
insurance; and (iv) sector governance. Specifically, the government intends to achieve: (a) health policy
prioritization; (b) health finance reform; (c) increased institutional accountability and autonomy; (d)
outcomes-based incentives; and (e) increased attention to public health and behavioral determinants of
mortality and morbidity.
The Government is conmmitted to reform - but only reforms that are well-founded, well-calibrated and
evolutionary. Slovenia does not need and, for reasons rooted in its political economy, will not make
radical, "leap-of-faith" reforms in the health sector - particularly those that would seriously undermine
strongly-held values of social solidarity. Over the next decade, Slovenian authorities intend to translate this
sector strategy into well sequenced action to: (a) continuously enhance the health system's ability to
achieve acceptable levels of health outcomes within the available resource envelope; (b) provide the basis
for designing, developing and implementing evolutionary structural reforms to improve health outcomes;
(c) tighten the focus of the health sector's institutions on their core functions. These core functions are: (i)
MOH on policy-making and priority-setting; (ii) HIIS on effective and efficient health service purchasing;
(iii) IPH on health surveillance and analytical foundations for policy; (iv) health providers such as the
UMCL on evidence-based health management; and (v) MOF on fiscal monitoring.
The Role of Information Management for Health Reform: Due its complexity and sensitivity to country
-6 -



conditions, health sector reform is a highly exploratory process.  Moreover, there is no proven, "
importable" model of comprehensive health sector reform. This fact does not diminish the urgency of
health sector reforms in Slovenia, however. But it does underscore the critical importance of developing an
informnation base and a corresponding information infrastructure as necessary conditions for effective
reform design, development and implementation. As an important precondition to embarking on a program
of long-term reforms, there is a strong urgency to launch the necessary investment program to upgrade this
infrastructure and the nation's health information assets.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Health Information Management as a Tool for Health Reform:
Possibly the most prornising lever for furthering short and long term policy objectives is a major upgrade in
the quality, coverage and accessibility of information in and about the health sector. Given, among other
things, the critical importance of contracting, this leverage point is valid, irrespective of how far and how
fast Slovenia moves toward greater reliance on the private sector in health. Health is a profoundly
information-intensive sector - in planning, provision, management and consumption. Making in-roads into
these information deficiencies can lead to notable "one-time" improvements in efficiency, effectiveness and
quality of health care services, largely within the same structural setting. Many inefficiencies in the
existing system can be addressed, by making them explicit and visible. Many of the changes in the
incentive structure and behaviors necessary to obtain these efficiency gains can be achieved through better
information management and better information dissemination. Sustained improvements in health
outcomes, which match permanently rising expectations and do not outstrip income growth, will require
more systemic use of performance-based contracts, priority-based selective purchasing, as well as greater
attention to performance outliers. In the longer term, well-planned and well-executed health reforms will be
required. By upgrading the national health information base and the corresponding health information
infrastructure, the Program will enable both the formulation of reform process as well as its
implementation. The current situation, at the policy, provider, management and consumer levels, is
deficient in a number of critical ways.
Ministry of Health (MOH): Lack of information and capacity for priority setting, policy making,
monitoring and evaluation:
The MOH lacks appropriate and timely information to fulfill its priority-setting, strategic-planning and
policy-making functions. The institution attempts to publish technically sound policy papers, but does not
have sufficient information on the character of the epidemiological transition, the burden of disease or the
cost-effectiveness of altemative protocols, modes of care delivery, etc. The HIIS has assumed a "de facto"
role as policy maker due to better access to information, availability of economic and human resources and
its independence and negotiation power. Better health information management, upgraded skill mix and
sharpened focus is required to enable the MOH to implement the reform, legal and policy agenda outlined
in the White Paper and the EU accession strategy and to regain sector leadership. This matter has been
highlighted both in national capacity assessments as well as in consultant's reports by the WHO, the EU
and the Bank. Despite the absence of a manifest crisis, there is an urgency to proceed with the development
of a national health information system. Such system is both a necessary condition for the formulation of
reforms, as well as for their successful implementation. The required change in attitudes, practices and
procedures, to exploit the new information tools also require an adjustment period (even in the absence of
structural changes or reforms). Delays in launching the project are likely to translate into lost efficiency
and effectiveness gains within the current structures, as well as delays in reform formulation and
- 7 -



implementation.
Institute of Public Health (IPH):   Lack of appropriate technology, training and skill mix to
analyze available health information for decision making:
The IPH collects a large volume of epidemiological data (much of it on communicable disease), but has
difficulty to process and analyze the information appropriately to inform policy-making. The IPH manages
9 Regional Offices, and a number of laboratories. Although this public health network is a potential asset
for the health sector, its current operation is still shaped by an outdated infectious disease and hygiene
paradigm. The size of the network, particularly the regional offices seem inefficient for a country of such
small size. This network will need to be downsized, streamlined and integrated into the national public
health system to achieve the necessary efficiency gains as well as to support continuous analysis and
appropriate presentation of information for decision-making. With access to up-to date information the
IPH must improve its role as the country's agency in charge of digesting epidemiological and biostatistical
information in support of the MOH and other sector stakeholders.
Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia (HIIS): Lack of information and capacity to become a selective
purchaser of services and to integrate information with Smart Card Project:
The HIIS processes a wealth of procedure and expenditure information. However, due to its central pricing
/ purchasing role, it has become the primary health policy maker by default. Although such a policy-setting
role can, in practice, never be fully extinguished, stronger priority-setting capacity in the MOH (with the
IPH's support) would allow the HIIS to make informed purchasing decisions, based on national health
priorities, to focus on cost-effective interventions, based on international evidence and to introduce
benchmarking to measure quality and provider performance. However, the HIIS is hindered by the absence
of a complete "cycle" of health status, health procedure, health resources and health outcome information.
To close this loop and to improve the accuracy of its administration (HIIS spends only 2.7% of its budget
on administration, comparing favorably to other EU countries), the HIIS has launched a national health
"smart" card project. This will eventually help strengthen the information link to individual and has the
potential to improve case management among other functions. However, to complete and integrate the full
set of health-related information requires a complementary inter-agency health information network which
is built on health information standards and is supported by conforming institution-specific management
and operational systems. Other projects, such as the EU Phare supported CONSENSUS project with the
goal to support the HIIS in accommodating legal and institutional changes linked to EU accession (on
topics such as pharmaceutical policy, labor legislation, among others) will be closely integrated.
University Medical Center of Ljubljana (UMCL) and other providers:   Lack of managerial
capacity, clinical and administrative standards and comparative information:
At the provider level, the individual institutions (hospitals, clinics, private practitioners, laboratories, etc.)
create and use large amounts of procedural and resource information. However, at this level the full cycle
of information related to individuals is missing, constraining facilities- and case-management (resource
information is absent or aggregated at the unit level, quality of care indicators and/or benchmarks are
unavailable). Providers lack complete information or tools allowing greater autonomy and decision-making
responsibilities, for responding efficiently and effectively to IJIS pricing and purchasing signals and for
comparing performance standards with other providers and institutions. Contemporary, "best practice"
approaches to health sector modernization involve the notions of "seamless care", "optimized patient
pathways", and "managed care". At the heart of these notions is a re-focusing of attention on the
individual as the object of health management. This contrasts with the traditional focus on episodes and
- 8 -



treatments, with a conceptual supply-side identity (clinics, hospitals, wards). Traditionally, the object of
health care service management has been largely defined by the "entry" and "exit" of an individual in and
out of such entities. Such management approach is the source of efficiency- and effectiveness losses in the
health sector and fragments information about an individual's health conditions, procedures employed,
resources used, and results attained.   This fragmentation has greatly hindered evidence- and
outcomes-based management and led to substantial consumption of time and resources in redundant and
uncoordinated activities.
Ministry of Finance (MOF):   Lack of access to appropriate fiscal monitoring tools for the health and
social security sector:
The MOF is concerned about the overall fiscal performance and long-term sustainability of the sector.
During the last decade the share of health care as a proportion of GDP almost doubled. In particular, the
economic health of the HIIS, the implications of high payroll contributions for health and social security
benefits for overall labor market indicators are closely monitored by the MOF. Access to timely
information will enhance the MOF's role as a negotiation partner of MOH and HIIS in planning and
projecting of investment and labor costs, as well as MOF support with appropriate policies, regulation and
supervision of pharmaceuticals pricing and taxation.
The Health Sector Institutions in concert: Lack of smoothly functioning inter-agency information
interchange mechanisms to provide access to complete set of high qualify and consistent health
information.
Individuals move in and out of health sub-sectors, health service institutions, as well as across geography
(including international borders, which will figure prominently as an future EU member). Accordingly,
modern approach to health care, and health care information, must be integrated at the national and sector
levels. This integration is also a necessary condition to permit the modernization of health sector
management, health service provision and epidemiological surveillance. Slovenia's advanced stage of
sector development and small size makes addressing these deficiencies at the national and sectoral levels a
feasible undertaking.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The program contains four inter-locking components: The Health Policy Support Component - sets the
policy context for the project, sharpens the respective institutional focus and strengthens the on-going work
on health sector reforms. Based on existing requirements, plus those introduced through the policy reform /
analysis process, the second component -- Health Information Standards Formulation Component --
defines the common architectural, interface, access, and content standards for the national health
information in Slovenia. Based upon these standards, the third component -- Health Information System
Implementation Component -- supports the institutional framework for the creation of a nation-wide,
sector-spanning, integrated health information infrastructure.   The fourth component -- Project
Management and Professional Support Component -- provides critical inter-agency project coordination
and facilitation for the above activities. The component also provides for project admninistration, project
monitoring and evaluation and related project quality assurance activities (like a traditional project
coordinating unit) and professional support for, among other things, the technical work groups establishing
the health inforrnation standards.
-9-



Project Component I - (US$ 2.2 million total cost) Health Policy Support:
The Health Policy Support Component finances technical assistance and related knowledge-management
and training support for four thematic working groups including the participants from the MOH, the HIIS,
the IPH, the UMCL (and other providers) and the MOF. Each working group will address an aspect of
health sector reform, based on the policy agenda of the Government. The working groups will analyze the
current legal, technical and institutional situation, technically develop and weigh reform options, assess
international experience and best practice, as well as revise information, legal and other requirements to
devise, launch and sustain the proposed reform elements. The groups will closely collaborate with ongoing
projects such as the EU-Phare financed CONSENSUS project on Social Security reform and the Quality of
Care working group championed by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia (MCS). The inter-institutional
working groups will be guided by the approved policy agenda, put forward in the Policy Note for this
program, the White Paper (National Health Care Program of the Republic of Slovenia by 2004) produced
by the MOH for Parliamentary approval and the EU Accession Strategy. Component initiatives for Phase I
of the program include:
*  Revision of payment mechanisms and reimbursement models for primary, secondary and tertiary
care: This working group will assess current implications of the prospective and capped budget
model for hospitals and propose more effective and quality oriented alternatives, based on
international experience and best practice. A new reimbursement model will attain effective and
efficient resource management at all service levels and create an incentive framework that enhances
productivity, resolution and quality at each service level. The task force will model and pilot test
alternatives, with participation of the UMCL and other pilot hospitals, and in close collaboration
with the CONSENSUS Project. The final goal is to work with international experts in developing
a suitable model for Slovenia, pilot test, adapt in case necessary and introduce it through a national
roll-out supported by Phase II of the Program.
*   Define and introduce health care capacity management mrnethodology and practices in the service
network: This working group has the objective to support the strengthening of health care
management, both on institutional and on national levels. Specifically, the task force will focus on:
(i) design and implementation of appropriate management training programs for health sector, in
particular within a new incentive framework for efficient managing of hospitals and health centers;
(ii) define and introduce appropriate models for planning within the public health network; (iii)
define and select models for system monitoring and evaluation to improve organizational planning
and institutional management; (iv) define and introduce training programs for budget and
deliverables negotiations in line with the introduction of new reimbursement systems; and (v)
initiate preparative legislative work to introduce hospital autonomy/corporatization.
*   Improvement of efficiency and effectiveness in the Public Health Network and introduction of
algorithms linked to evidence-based medicine: This working group will define optimum resource
allocation formulas for the public health network based on international experience. Expected
outputs are: (i) agreements on specific indicators and benchmarks for efficiency and effectiveness
that are internationally accepted and comparable; (ii) a baseline survey on current performance
levels of all service levels (PHC, district hospitals, tertiary care services). The task force will
define appropriate diagnostic protocols and establish treatment guidelines using evidence-based
procedures depending on care level and complexity; evaluate a pharmaceutical formulary to be
used for HIIS reimbursements and linked to Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs) and service levels,
as well as an assessment of diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitation and prevention protocols
expected to be ideally performed at the PHC level to strengthen the gatekeeping function. This
-1 0 -



process would also facilitate the introduction of a unified classification of standard diagnostic and
therapeutic procedures (algorithms) including defined human resource standards; The working
group will prepare proceedings for hospital accreditation standards and professional licensing
policies.
Project Component 2 - (US$ 0.8 million total cost) Health Information Standards Formulation:
This component attempts to improve the management of the health sector, health institutions and health
care services, by establishing and promoting health information standards, for clinical, economic,
statistical, normative and other information types used in the sector. Currently, health information is
generated from disparate information systems (both within and from outside any single health institution).
Given the heterogeneity of existing (and future) information systems as well as the continuous process of
change occurring in such systems, common information standards must be developed in order to facilitate
communication among sector participants. In fact, international best practice has shown that integrated
standards are required to efficiently and effectively operate the health sector.
Such common information standards must be established at a number of logical/conceptual levels. A
standard architecture must define the large functional blocks of health information systems and defne the
interfaces between the functional blocks. A well-founded architecture standard will then allow for stability
in the overall system, despite continuous change in the functional blocks and heterogeneous system
implementations. This stability requires well-specified and robust interface standards, where the interfaces
are understood not only to be at the technological level, but also at the level of data structures, definitions,
terminologies and coding standards. At this level, the substantive content of health information, its uses
and relationships are paramount. Although international standards and frameworks exist, in the fnal
analysis, such standards must be country-specific and determined by language, usage, and the country's
health sector practices and traditions. Nevertheless, the Project will exploit, among other international
standards, the Health Infornation Systems Architecture (HISA) as devised by the Technical Committee
251 (TC25 1) of the European Center for Standards (CEN), which covers: (a) Subject of Care; (b) Health
Characteristics; (c) Health Care Activities; (d) Health Care Resources; and (e) Health Information Systems
Authorization (i.e., access; security, privacy, etc.).
Project Component 3 - (US$ 7.5 million total cost) Health Information Systems Implementation:
Based on the work under the Health Policy Reform Support Component and under the Health Information
Standards Formulation Component, the third component will implement health information systems in
Slovene health sector institutions and tie these institution-specific systems together in a
nationally-integrated health information system.
Technologically, the objective of the component is the implementation of standards-based, information
"brokers". At the national level, a National Health Information Clearinghouse (NHIC) will be established
(modeled on the clearinghouse functions employed in financial systems). The NHIC will serve as a central
"hub" for the inter-agency exchange of health related information (clinical, economic, statistical, normative,
etc.). As a single institutional point of focus and intermediary for exchange of information, the NHIC will
reduce the complexity of designing, implementing and maintaining all the necessary bi-lateral links among
health sector entities. The NHIC will also serve as a point of focus for maintaining national health
information standards supporting cross-agency system operation. An analogous arrangement will be
replicated at the agency-specific level (e.g., hospitals, clinics, UMCL, MOH, HIIS, IPH etc.). At this level,
it must be assured that the full set of existing (and future) application systems inter-operate with each other
and be accessible from across the institution. The same technologies are used to provide linkages to the
- 11 -



NHIC and to PHC and other service providers in a specific hospital's "catchment" area.
It is international best practice to integrate disparate systems through the use of a common information
"broker" based on standardized "middleware" technologies.  Under this type of arrangement, each
application system "knows" how to exchange information with the broker through standardized (and stable)
message formats. These messages invoke the middleware to provide standardized communication and other
technology services, including message translation and synchronization with other application systems.
Change in and extensions to application system elements are isolated from each other and the system can be
enhanced through extensions to the middleware functionality. This functionality will be extended to expand
information flow for both operational / transactional information (e.g., about patient-connected service
provision) as well as management / monitoring information (e.g., aggregated service, resource, results, etc.,
information).
This Component supports a set of multi-track systems implementations for: (a) the National Health
Information Clearinghouse (NHIC); (b) "local" clearinghouses in three pilot hospital sites (including
linkages to primary health care facilities in the locality of one pilot hospital); and (c) "local" clearinghouses
in three key health sector institutions -- the MOH, IPH, and HIIS. Implementation will focus on standard
representations of broad categories of information types, as well those specific information standards where
agreement can be reached most rapidly (either due to specific Slovene circumstances or where international
standards are most well articulated). By concentrating on common information standards, systems
implementation can be well synchronized, despite differences in agency's specific implementation.
Project Component 4- (US$ 2.8 million total cost) Project Management and Professional Support:
This component provides support for project coordination, project governance, project administration,
public information, and project quality assurance.  The project will finance the establishmnent and
operations of a Project Management and Professional Support Unit (PM-PS Unit). The head of the PM-PS
Unit will be responsible for overall project coordination (technical, institutional, and political), as well as
for the management of the PM-PS. The PM-PS Unit will provide for the administrative functions of
procurement, disbursement, financial management, record keeping, and related legal support. The PM-PS
Unit will ensure timely and proper project auditing and handle the public information and professional
relations activities.
The PM-PS Unit will provide secretariat services to the governing Project Board and the Project Assurance
Team, the External Advisory Group, as well as finance professional support for the technical working
groups under the Health Policy Support and the Health Information Standards Formulation Components.
As part of project quality assurance, the PM-PS Unit will develop and implement a rich set of project
indictors, including baseline data. These will be used to track the progress and impact of the project, as
well as provide the information for the project triggers which will be used to assess the appropriateness of
passing from Phase I to Phase H of the program (under the APL). The PM-PS Unit will also lead the
analyses and formulation of lessons-learned in the pilot implementations of the health information systems.
- 12-



Trigger Indicators (to be assessed in 2003 before authorization of Phase II of APL):
1.    Legal and functional establishment of the National Health Information Clearinghouse (NHIC)
successfully concluded, staff hired and trained, pilot runs evaluated.
2.    Phase II implementation strategy and policy agenda developed, based on thorough evaluation of
Phase I performance and lessons learned. Phase II national roll out strategy developed and approved by
Project Board.
3.    Policy agenda developed, based on Parliament approved "White Paper" and EU Accession
Strategy. Each working group fully developed at least one technical policy package, to be presented to the
Health Council.
C: Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Based on an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), the project comprises two phases. PHASE I covers policy
formulation in selected areas and the piloting of integrated health information systems. PHASE II covers
the continuation of health policy development and the national roll-out of health information systems. The
two phases maintain a common component structure. The break between the two APL phases provides an
opportunity to take stock of the policy work and the information systems pilots.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(USSM)   Total    (US$Mn   financing
Health Policy Support Component   Health              2.15       16.2       1.85      19.5
Health Information Standards      Health              0.76        5.7      0.67        7.1
Formulation Component
Health Information Systems        Health               7.51      56.5      4.55       47.9
Implementation Component
Project Management and Professional   Health          2.78       20.9      2.33       24.5
Support Component
Total Project Costs                   13.20      99.2       9.40      98.9
Front-end fee                    0.10       0.8       0.10       1.1
Total Financing Required                   13.30      100.0      9.50     100.0
- 13 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Sharpening of Sector Management Roles. To function as a more effective whole, the key health sector
institutions need to strengthen and sharpen their respective roles. The MOH needs to be more effective in
setting health sector priorities and policies. The Public Health Institute (PHI) needs to provide a stronger
analytical basis for health policy formulation. The Health Insurance Institute (HIIS), through its health
finance and reimbursement schemes, needs to further orient towards: (a) evidence- and outcomes-based
reimbursements; and (b) a shift from inputs and length-of-stay based reimbursements to payment
mechanisms that enhance productivity and quality-of-care. More generally, the HIIS needs to shift away
from apportioning a prospective budget across the full range of all health services provided nationally (i.e.,
a "quasi-budgetary" role -- albeit within a hard budget constraint) -- towards selective purchasing of health
services, based on MOH health policy priorities. The University Medical Center of Ljubljana (UMCL)
-- and the provider network in general -- needs to be more efficient and effective in internal management
with tighter links between resource allocation decisions and procedural outcomes as well as other quality of
care indicators. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) needs to monitor fiscal performance of the sector more
closely and more accurately, to ensure expenditures do not grow beyond the range of 8 percent of GDP
while simultaneously the current strong health outcomes indicators are sustained. In addition to helping
rnaintain the balance of fiscal and health service provision standards, a more selective purchasing of health
services by the compulsory HIIS, would stimulate competition among public providers and likely support
the consolidation of health service capacities in the long run. This would also make greater room for
private health care service providers and boost private supplementary health insurance.
Establishment of National Health Information Clearinghouse. The transformation of health sector roles
and behaviors depends on changes in policy, practice and financial norms. It also depends on the
implementations of information systems that permit: (a) these norms to be formulated and refined, on the
basis of reliable and relevant information; and (b) health service providers to respond to these norms in the
operations and management of their respective health practices. This requires management and operational
information systems that inter-operate across institutional boundaries on a national and sector-wide basis.
To achieve this, the project will implement a National Health Information Clearinghouse (NHIC), through
which the various systems can exchange such information. To make the establishment of an integrated
national health information system a tractable undertaking, as well as sustainable over time, most
inter-agency information exchange procedures, practices and technologies will need to be re-directed from
bilateral exchanges to intermediated exchanges via the NHIC. Some agency-specific legal requirements
and regulations will need adjustments to permit these changes. Also, each participating health sector entity
will need to cede standard-setting powers over various data definition, format, protocol and exchange
standards to the governing body for the NHIC.
Support Health Service Facilities Management Reforms. Through changes in health policy and financial
norms and through the strengthening of health information systems and related human capital, the Project
seeks to further the transformation of the management practices of health service providers.  The
transformation sought is from facilities "management" being predominantly an administrative activity (i.e.,
action taken in accordance with prescribed procedural norms, with a fixed array of resources) towards a
more decentralized practice of making resource allocation decisions which are well-informed of the needs of
the client population, as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of alternative resources and procedures --
within a framework of financial and quality norms established at the sector level.
- 14 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Project benefits and the beneficiaries include:
*   The general population, including dependent and vulnerable persons, would benefit from improved
health status, through improved public health priority-setting and prevention.
*   Taxpayers, insurance premium payers, and health service co-payers benefit from greater health value
for money through clear policy priorities, more selective purchasing, as well as greater competition and
accountability.
*   Health sector managers at the policy-making, institutional and operational levels, benefit from greater
work efficacy and job-satisfaction through improved decision-making tools, authorities and streamlined
and less bureaucratic procedures.
*  Health care professionals benefit from greater efficacy in their work and greater job-satisfaction
(through, among other things, evidence-based medicine and automation-reduced administrative
burdens).
*   Health care service recipients benefit from improved quality of health service (through, among other
things, shorter waiting lists).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. 3.5 years PHASE I(3 years PHASE II).
Implementing Agency: The Project will be implemented by the MOH, with critical support provided by the
HIIS.
Project Governance:   Following  the PRINCE-2  project management methodology, executive
decision-making and high-level inter-agency coordination will be exercised by a Project Board. The Board,
which was established by Government decree in July 1999, comprises the executive representatives of the
key health sector institutions (MOH - State Secretaries; Director General HIIS; Chairman of the Health
Council; Medical Director of UMCL; and the MOF State Secretary for Budget). An External Advisory
Group (EAG) of internationally-recognized experts will be established by the Project Board to provide the
Board with expert professional guidance and overall direction to the project. In addition, the Project
Assurance Team (PAT) is responsible for ensuring continuity, quality and overall integrity of the project
work throughout its phases. The PAT includes senior technical managers from the key stakeholder
institutions (MOH; IPH; HIIS; UTMCL; General Hospital Jesenice; General Hospital Maribor; Health
Council; and the MOF). The PAT membership mirrors largely that of the former Project Steering
Committee which was established at the end of 1998 to guide the initial phases of project design.
Project Management and Professional Support: MOH will establish and staff, primarily on a contractual
basis, a Project Management and Professional Support Unit (PM-PS Unit). The PM-PS Unit will: (a)
coordinate project activities; (b) provide secretariat services to the Project Board, Advisory Group, Project
Assurance Team, as well as each of the technical working groups; (c) coordinate and oversee all project
quality assurance activities, including project progress and impact indictors, as well as the Phase I
assessments prior to launch of Phase II; (d) provide project adrninistration (procurement, disbursement,
financial management, record keeping, reporting, legal support, etc.) as well as ensure timely and proper
project auditing; and (e) handle the public information and relations activities. A Project Manager will
- 15-



head the PM-PS Unit, report to the Project Board, and be guided by the Project Assurance Team. In
addition to the Project Manager, the PM-PS Unit will be staffed with clerical support, financial-
management support, procurement support, legal support, as well as one or two health informatics experts.
As required, these will be supplemented by external assistance on specific short-term issues.
Financial management. The PM-PS Unit will develop a chart of accounts for the Project. This chart of
accounts will be incorporated with the overall framework of the MOF's accounting system under the
economic classification of the MOH. The PM-PS Unit will develop an accounting module at their office,
with the assistance of the MOF, that will be able to extract project related data from the MOF's accounting
system, and produce Project Management Reports acceptable to the Bank (i.e., in compliance with the
formats provided by the Bank in the LACI Implementation Manual, September 1998). These reports
include comprehensive quarterly reports covering project financing, implementation progress (including
variance reporting), procurement progress and contract expenditure. The PM-PS Unit will ensure these
reports are sent to the Bank in a timely fashion. The PM-PS Unit will also hire an accounting firm
acceptable to the Bank to audit the project accounts. The Government will provide the Bank (within six
months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including an opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements against
certified SOEs, or against PMRs. The selected audit firm will also review the accounting module at the
PM-PS Unit and certify that the systems meets the Bank's reporting standards. Project accounts, financial
statements, the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures will be audited in accordance with the
Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing for Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982)
as well as the Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (January 1995). In particular,
Intemational Auditing Standards (IAS) as published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC)
will be consistently applied. The procurement administration arrangements will follow those recommended
in the Procurement Assessment which is contained in the Project Files and on the basis of which the various
thresholds in Annex 6 are established.
Technical Working Groups: A set of technical working groups will handle the substantive technical work
of the project design, development and implementation supervision. These working groups will report to
the Project Board and receive support from the PM-PS Unit.
Under the Health Policy Support Component, working groups will address: Health Care Financing;
Health Sector Capacity Planning and Management; Public Health Care Network; Diagnostic and
Therapeutic Standards. The leaders of each of the policy and information standards working groups will
form a working group on Coordination. The Coordination Working Group will have a sub-conmmittee for
coordination and a sub-committee for technological decision-making
Under the Health Information Standards Formulation Component, the following Working Groups will
address health information standards following the HISA model: The Subject of Care Working Group will
formulate the shared data structures for patient and patient-group identification information, including data
handling in accordance with the Slovenian and EU legal environment. The Health Characteristics
Working Group will formulate the shared data structures for the health characteristics of the subject of care
(e.g., laboratory results of a patient). The Health Care Activities Working Group will formulate the shared
data structures and rules for data handling of all medical and health related activities (e.g., surgical
interventions and medication). The Resources Working Group will formulate the shared data structures for
all resources used in medical and health services (e.g., human resources, equipment, consumables, etc.,).
The Authorization Working Group will formulate the shared data structures and rules for authorized
access and use of health information, including the Health Information Clearinghouse.
- 16-



Site-specific Project Management: During the course of the project-financed systems implementations at
the MOH, HIIS, PHI, UMCL, the three pilot hospitals sites, the project will provide for local project-
management capacities to strengthened. This serves two purposes: (a) to ensure an adequate "quantity" of
project management resources are available at each site during the intensive systems implementation
periods; and (b) to ensure adequate "quality" of skills are present, especially the specific skills required to
manage an information systems implementation, including business-process redesign and other change
management skills.
National Health Information Clearinghouse: The Project will create an independent public agency, the
NHIC. The NHIC will operate as a "utility" and intermediate the exchange of health information in
Slovenia (and, after EU Accession, with health sector entities in other EU member states). Technically,
this will greatly reduce the cost and difficulty of establishing and maintaining a vast web of bilateral
information channels among health sector entities, by reducing the number of channels and standardizing
the form, content, security and technologies.
Governance and financing are two inter-linked and critical challenges in the establishment and operation of
the NHIC. Each health sector participant has a different set of objectives, requirements and constraints.
Balancing these, especially among agencies of differing size and influence, will be critical to the success of
the Project. Although, on technical grounds, either the HIIS or PHI could make strong cases to house the
NHIC, this arrangement was deemed to not provide to the balance of interests required to gain sector-wide
acceptance for the model and to sustain it in the long run. Similarly, the method of capitalizing and funding
the operations of the NHIC will require careful development. Although financing the NHIC through the
HIIS was a natural option, it was deemed to lead to an imbalance in the governance of the NHIC.
Developing and refining a financing model will be a critical part of the detailed project implementation
process.
The NHIC will also provide the focus of (and technical support for) the permanent function of health
information standards formulation, once the initial rounds of formulation are completed by the Working
Groups. As a central, and institutionally neutral forum, the NHIC will provide an institutional framework
for articulating consensus-based standards and seeking formal acceptance of the standards among the
participating health sector stakeholder institutions. This standards-setting function will need to be blended
with NHIC's governance arrangements for its finances and operational practices.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Adjustment operation. The absence of a robust political consensus for an aggressive, "big-bang" reform
prescription (reflecting the latent but not manifest crisis in the health sector), would likely stall the
preparation, approval and implementation of a policy-based adjustment operation.   The lack of an
information base to adequately calibrate the reforms hinders the confident articulation of such reforms.
The lack of well calibrated reform proposal hinders the development of a consensus around them.
Moreover, the absence of key information infrastructure (i.e., tools and pathways) also hinders the
implementation and monitoring any such reforms.
"Traditional" health sector investment project focused on equipment, facilities, training and public
education. In general, the Slovenian health sector is fairly well equipped and the service delivery staff
reasonably well trained. Additional technical capacity is not the binding constraint to achieving sustainable
- 17-



improvements in health status. Instead, the critical need is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness the
existing resources, by substituting active management practices for relatively "mechanical" administrative
practices throughout the health sector. This depends on changes in institution-level governance and
provider-level incentives, which, in turn, depends on developing the necessary information base to
formulate these changes and the necessary information tools to affect them.  Nevertheless, training,
especially in the area of management, does form a key element of the complementary institution-building
investments to constructing a national health information system.
Learning and Innovation Loan. A LIL has been considered. Hovever, it was felt to be a less appropriate
instrument than an APL for a number of reasons. First, the financing limits (<US$5M) and short
implementation time frame (<3 years) for a LIL would not be sufficient to cover the full National Health
Information System, which as argued above is important to fully capture the benefits of the investment
program. Second, an APL has the great advantage of establishing a strong commitment to the availability
of -esources to continue with the implementation of the National system -- provided the pilot work and
institutional set-up is successful. This will help maintain continuity through government changes that may
result from the elections due in 200 1. The longer term commitment of resource availability will also help
avoid decisions that limit or truncate the potential scope of the system, due to the less than full confidence
of the possibility of follow-up financing for the national roll-out. As argued below in Paragraph 5, a
sequence of incremental information system investments typically do not "add up" to as coherent of a
system as one that is conceived of as a single effort. In the absence of a firm commitment to the whole
system, there are usually too many tradeoffs made against extensibility and scalability in favor of
expediency within a more limited scope. This is particularly true when multiple agencies are involved.
Third, the scope of the national information system requires a careful planning effort that is not as well
suited to the relatively quick and experimental character of a LIL.
The APL has specific advantages in the context of Slovenia and its impending graduation from Bank
borrowing. The APL has the advantage of providing support for a long-term reform processes (and the
attendant information infrastructure to enable and underlie the conduct of the reform process). However, it
also permits the Bank to front-load the financial and admninistrative resources (e.g., supervision budget)
required to support the reforms, in line with the planned wind down of Bank lending to Slovenia. The
reform-oriented project, nevertheless, provides an excellent framework within which the Bank-Slovenia
relationship would transition to a pure policy dialog. The AP1, further enhances these advantages in
managing the transition, by providing a formal point at the end of Phase 1 for both parties to assess the
logic and pace of this strategy (i.e., as a potential "exit" point for lending).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue            I          Project                   (PSR) Ratings
__________________________ ___ L Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
None
Other development agencies
- 18-



EU-PHARE: Health Law               Health Regulation
Hannonization and Institution-building  (pharmaceuticals, drugs,
(with MOH)                         dangerous materials, etc.)
EU-PHARE: Health Finance           Health Finance
Harmonization (with Health Insurance
Institute)
EU-PHARE: Primary-Secondary        Health Service
Referral Systems Pilot (with private
Slovene health software provider)
Government of Netherlands: Primary   Primary Health Care
Health Care Service (with MOH)     (home care and GP)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design draws on a number of other Bank-financed projects in the ECA region in the health
sector and/or projects with information systems investments that are central to the design and success of the
project. These include health informatics projects in Hungary, Poland, Croatia, Turkey, and FYR
Macedonia, as well as information system dependent projects in Croatia and Latvia.  The project
preparation team, through consultants also tapped the relevant project experience in the EU, most notably
in Italy and the UK and incorporated valuable lessons leamed and best practice from similar developments
in Australia and New Zealand. On a more limited scope, in the area of the public health network, the most
recent experience in IT development for epidemiological surveillance in Orange County in California was
reviewed by team members.
Health Policy Support Projects. From other health projects in the ECA region which support policy
change, the following lessons have been learnt:
* Health sector reform is a lengthy, mostly politicized process, involving many powerful stakeholders,
winners and losers.
* Expectations for the reform process have often been too optirnistic on the part of both the Bank and
client countries.
*   Institutional aspects and the political economy of reform are as important as technically proficient
strategies and inputs.
* Greater attention must be paid to the political economy of the reform through appropriate
communication and consultation.
* Stakeholders and interest groups, including law-makers, health professionals, the media and the public
must be consulted.
* Project complexity is an issue to be addressed (Health Sector Strategy for ECA. World Bank
Publication, 1999).
The current project reflects the client country's desire for an incremental, evidence-based approach to health
sector reform, informed by the information generated by the information systems developed under the
project. This approach reflects the strong awareness among key decision-makers in the Slovenian health
sector of the experiences and pitfalls of other ECA countries with health reform. Policy working groups
are supported by the project to develop an agreed policy agenda, with the participation of key stakeholder
-19-



organizations in the sector. The working groups will make recommendations to the Project Board,
comprising the executive representatives of the key health sector institutions. The Board will, in turn,-
champion policy initiatives through the processes of the Cabinet and Parliament. The project also
incorporates public information / awareness activities. The choice of an APL will allow for management of
complex policy development through a phased approach, with a modest and lower risk design for the first
phase. In this way, the lending instrument, selection of project activities, and project implementation and
governance arrangements are designed to achieve realism in policy proposals, avoid complexity, foster
buy-in to policy development by the major stakeholders and the institutions which will implement change,
and ensure communication over change within the sector and with the wider public.
The project emphasizes use of information to improve quality and clinical effectiveness, as well as
efficiency and fiscal sustainability. This balance is intended to address the typical concerns about and
consequent opposition to health refonn from health professions which have been encountered in
fiscally-driven or market-oriented health reforms in a number of OECD countries.
Information Systems Projects. The positive and negative lessons of virtually every information systems
project that the Bank has been involved in underscore the critical importance of strong project management
capacity. Information system projects are highly complex technical and institutional undertakings. This
requires skills sets which are rather scarce in most health sector entities, especially public health agencies.
First class informatics project management skills need to be obtained from the market, due to the lack of
them in the relevant agencies and the chronic non-competitiveness of public sector wages in the informatics
area.
To capture the full benefits from health sector automation, the systems must be designed and implemented
as coherent wholes -- even though they span multiple agencies. For example, health insurance automation
is incomplete unless the hospital and other care-giving entities have internal systems that can link patient
information with resource and financial information. Reciprocally, hospital information systems cannot
properly implement cost-accounting systems without a stable and workable finance model to track. More
generally, outcomes-based care and financial systems cannot effectively operate, unless information about
the individual can effectively move with the individual as the person passes through the health care system
(e.g., primary care to secondary/tertiary and back to primary care entities). This requires a sector-wide
information systems master plan plus a coordinated, cross-cutting implementation.
Even with a sector-wide strategy and implementation plan, the key systems are implemented in specific
agencies. The objectives, requirements and constraints of each specific entity need to be respected and
reflected in the system implementation.  In addition, the implementation plans must recognize and
compensate for the chronic lack of information system project management capacities at the level of the
specific institutions. In particular, among the most scarce skills associated with information system project
management is the capacity to plan for and affect the broad range of changes in an organization which
modem  information systems require or induce.  This includes changes in procedures and internal
organization. It also includes strategies to over come resistance to change (both inherent resistance to any
change and resistance to change prompted by shifting roles, responsibilities, and powers).
Sector-wide master plan and coordinated implementations require balancing differing opinions. This
necessitates vehicles for consultation and consensus-building. These vehicles must, however, lead to
closure. This requires building working groups with the proper representation. It requires highly-respected
and impartial "facilitators". It also requires clear terms of reference, with milestones and schedules, and
compensation tied to the achievement of the work. In addition, the use of international health informatics
standards (e.g., CEN TC25 1 HISA, and EHCRA) can help achieve closure, through their neutrality and the
avoidance of "wheel re-invention".
Most major automation projects are, in effect, agency modernizalion projects. Thus, information system
- 20 -



investments must usually be accompanied by complementary investments in procedural re-design and
management capacity building. These investments are strongly mutually dependent for success. They are
also very supervision-intensive from the Bank's prospective.
Information systems projects typically stress Bank procurement procedures and instruments. The close and
highly interdependent relationships among the key inputs in information systems projects (technical
assistance, local / institution-specific human capital; information technologies; and specialized technical
services) require careful procurement planning, as well as carefully tailored supplier selection processes
and contractual terms. The Project builds on substantial new Bank standard documentation and procedures
that were prepared for the Bank at large by the technical and procurement specialists on the project team.
As appropriate, these materials will be extended and customized to address the particularly challenging
procurement areas of information systems integration and software development.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Despite the strong sentiment for no-change among the general public and among many health sector
participants (reflecting the latency of the impending health sector crisis), the Government has approached
the Bank for project support. Under the aegis of the MOF, the MOH, the HIIS, the IPH, the UMCL and
other key health sector agencies came together and prepared a project vision for a national health
information system, first centered on the hospital sector. This vision, which was shared with the Bank in
the Summer of 1998, remains at the heart of the project design. Subsequent to the preparation of the
vision, the Government has organized the Steering Committee (in October 1998), which has begun
deliberations. In August 1998, a PHRD Grant was approved and in January 1999 experienced consultants
were selected to expand the vision into a technical and project management framework. The consultants
have prepared a high-level technical proposal, including: (a) cost estimates; (b) a project schedule; (c)
terms of reference for the further elaboration of the technical aspects of the Project; (d) draft terms of
reference and qualifications for the various members of the Project Management Unit; and (e) draft terms
of reference for the members of the various working groups that will establish the national health
information standards. The Bank has worked closely with the consultants, the MOH staff, the Steering
Committee and the Project Board to maximize the efficiency and timeliness of this preparation work.
In July 1999, the key stakeholders elevated the level of institutional commitment to the Project, by forming
the Project Board by Government decree (which comprises the State Secretaries from the MOH; Director
General of the HIIS; Chairman of the Health Council; Medical Director of UMCL; and the State Secretary
for Budget of the MOF). An External Advisory Group (EAG) of internationally-recognized experts will be
established by the Project Board to provide the Board with expert professional guidance and overall
direction to the Project. The Steering Committee was then transformed into the Project Assurance Team
(PAT) which is responsible for ensuring continuity, quality and overall integrity of the project work
throughout its phases. In July, the management of the HIIS presented to its Governing Board the outline of
the HIIS involvement in the Project and obtained the approval of its Governing Board. In September 1999 a
Policy Letter was drafted, outlining the long-term policy agenda by the government, based on a
parliamentary White Paper on health sector strategy and the EU Accession Strategy. The Letter of
Agreement, signed between the MOH, the HIIS and the MOF (inserted below) is testimony to the formal
commitment of the Government of Slovenia to implement and finance the project on terms and conditions
outlined in the loan agreement.
-21 -



Ref No.: 515-5/98
Date: 8 September 1999
Based on Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia No. 500-10/99-2(N), adopted at the 186th
session by correspondence, held on 4 August 1999 and the Decision of the Board of Directors of the Health
Insurance Institute of Slovenia, made at its 26th session on 29 July 1999, the Ministry of Health, represented by
State Secretary Ms. Dunja Kosmac, MD, the Ministry of Finance, represented by State Secretary Mr. Milan M
Cvikl, BSc, and the Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia, represented by Director General Mr. Franc Kosir,
LL.B.,
herein sign a
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of the Letter is confirmation of understanding between the Ministry of Health of the Republic of
Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia and the Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia on
the implementation of a health sector reform project and an upgrading of the health information technology
system, with a special emphasis on hospitals.
The purpose of this project is implementation of reform of the health care system such that it complies with the
national operational program for the integration of Slovenia into the European Union. The project will, above
all, contribute to the realization of the following orientations:
* reinforcing the health care planning system and monitoring the system's operation;
* improving the quality of health care;
* developing and enforcing standards, medical doctrine and methodology to provide equitable access by all
insured persons within the compulsory health insurance;
* shifting the emphasis from curative health services, especially within hospitals, to the primary health care
services;
* analysis of various models offinancing hospital health care;
* improving the efficiency of services and the use of available resources within the public health network;
* streamlining the organization of the public health network;
The project implementation phase willfocus on the modernization of the health information system with an
emphasis on hospitals. The goal of this modernization is an adequate collection of data and such access to
them as will make organizational reforms possible and allow for health care management in the country
along the lines of the above orientations.
This letter is also confirmation of the readiness to provide financing for project implementation. The
Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance will share the responsibilities ensuingfrom raising a World
Bank loan, while the Health Insurance Institute will provide an adequate share in the financing of the
project.
Dunja Pffkur KOSMAC                 Franc KOSIR                                   Milan CVIKL
STATESECRETARY                      DIRECTOR GENERAL                              STATE
SECRETARY
Ministty of Health                  Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia      Ministry of
Finance
- 22 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Transfer/Broker Global Experience in Information Systems Projects. In addition to substantial experience
in health sector, health informatics and information systems projects in general (as reflected in, among
other things, the above lessons learned), the Bank brings a wealth of global experiences in health sector
reforms (successful and unsuccessful). The Bank's presence and its ability to articulate the long-term
issues and reform requirements will be critical in ensuring that the project investments pave the way for a
health sector reform program that will obtain the confidence of the many health sector participants who
remain unconvinced of the need for structural reforms.
Leverage Policy Dialog and Information Systems Investments to Achieve Institutional Reform. In
particular, through its project supervision efforts, the Bank will retain a "seat at the table" on matters of
health sector reform. Thus, not only will the project investments themselves facilitate and ease the process
of structural changes, the supervision process will also facilitate a parallel track of health sector policy
dialog, which, in conjunction with technical assistance financed through the Project, will support the
structural reform process.
Bridge Political Cycles and Smooth Resource Availability. As is the case with most Bank-financed
projects, Bank involvement means that the public agency can be liberated somewhat from the constraints of
the annual budget cycle. With Bank finance, the MOH and the other health sector institutions can embark
on a multi-year investment program, which is explicitly tied to development objectives. This is far more
difficult when the various entities have only state budget resources to individually and separately draw
upon. Especially in the area of information systems development, a sequence of incremental investments
usually does not "add up" to a coherent and effective system. This requires an overarching plan, standards,
and a multi-year financing commitment to ensure that the overall system can be implemented.
Facilitate and Mediate Inter-agency Dialogues. As a respected and neutral participant, the Bank has a
demonstrated capacity to mediate among multiple stakeholder agencies within the sector, particularly when
such agencies' institutional interests diverge. Sometimes this is a result of the Bank acting as an honest
broker, which allows agencies to reach agreement as equal partners, when the agencies are not equals in
purely domestic dialogues. Sometimes this is a result of the Bank being able to take a position in terms of
national welfare, when the domestic multi-lateral institutional dynamics do not encourage decision-taking in
the collective interest. Other occasions, the collective decision-making may crystallize around the input of
technical expertise which the Bank brings to the discussion.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmeiits are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$25.6 million; ERR = 66% %
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The pricing of information and the usage of information technology infrastructure is exceedingly difficult.
Information constitutes a factor of production. Yet, it is exceedingly difficult to isolate in the production
function and/or measure in use. Also, although cost reduction and quality improvements are typically
fundamental goals inherent in technology decisions, proof of the cause and effect relationship of the
acquisition of information technology on cost reduction or quality enhancement remains elusive.
Information has other economic characteristics which makes it difficult to value / price. The cost of
producing information is inordinately concentrated in the first instance, with the cost of re-use often
negligible. Information, particularly in electronic form, is generally non-rival in use, with congestion costs
- 23 -



arising only at peak-use of the information technology infrastructure. As a result of these and other factors,
there are no accepted protocols for evaluating how information influences health care services.
These measurement and methodological problems means that quantitative cost-benefit analysis is usually
not a practical instrument for economic analysis of information systems projects in the health sector. The
diffuse and pervasive ways that information and information tools influence health management and health
outcomes also make it exceedingly difficult to specify altemative approaches to achieving comparable
results -- as required for a proper cost-effectiveness analysis.
Accordingly, the benefits from the Program expenditures will be assessed through a set of cost-recovery
calculations under very conservative assumptions. In particular, it is assumed that improvements in health
information systems in Slovenia will, through development of superior case management systems and
clinical guidelines, enable modest reductions in the cost of inpatient treatment without compromising
quality of care. These reductions will primarily come about due to reduction in hospital stays, and be
manifest in lower drug and hotel costs, and not through any reduction in clinical or administrative work
force At the same time, it is assumed that the demand for all levels of health care by the elderly will
increase disproportionately, as a result of better case management and follow-up due to improved
information systems, as well as due to a general rise in life expectancy and behavioral changes following
liberalization of the economy. Specifically, it is assumed that the elderly will have utilization rates for
primary, specialist and tertiary care one-and-a-half times higher than other age-groups.
Total health expenditures as a result of these efficiency gains are compared with a baseline "do nothing"
scenario, and part of the savings are attributed to improvements in health information systems. The present
value of the stream of such savings in health expenditures, net of all recurrent and depreciation costs, is
computed and compared to the present value of costs of investment in the modernization of the information
system.
Results of this analysis indicate that the net present value of the Program is expected to be US$25.6 million
if the hospital stays fall at annual rate of 5% over the next five years and 20% initially, and 30% after the
first three years, of the consequent savings in health expenditures can be attributed to modernization of the
information systems. The intemal rate of return of the Program is estimated to be 66%. The net present
value remains positive even if the reduction in hospital stays is 4%, 3% or 2.5% over the next five years.
In fact, the net present value is positive even if only 12% of the savings generated due to a 5% reduction in
hospital stays are attributed to improvements in the health information systems.
The proposed investment in the health information systems in Slovenia under the Program is therefore
justified even under very conservative assumptions of potential benefits, despite rising demand due to aging
population and generally rising expectations.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
As indicated above, pricing of information and the use of the information infrastructure services rendered
by the National Health Information Clearinghouse (NHIC) will be difficult to formulate in a fashion which
provides: (a) adequate cost-recovery funding for the NHIC; yet (b) does not distort the use or control over
the NHIC. The formulation of a financing model will be a critical part of the Project's institutional
development activities for the NHIC.
Nevertheless, the strong economic return on the project investments, coupled with the strong institutional
support for the clearinghouse concept and its functions, provide a rather solid base to infer the financial
viability of the NHIC. Each of the key stakeholding institutions stand to gain sufficient financial benefits
(both from cost reductions as well as management / service effectiveness gains) that a annual
- 24 -



"subscription" style financing model should be reachable among the stakeholders.
Fiscal Impact:
The government's contribution to the project is US$0.2 million (in CYO0); US$0.7 million (in CY01);
US$1.1 million (in CY02); and US$1.2 million (in CY03). During the post-implementation operational
phase (i.e., beyond the project completion date of December 2003) is US$ 0.6 million annually.
The overall fiscal impact of these expenditures is actually less. The project resources (including the IBRD
Loan) do not represent "additionality" to the MOH budget (except to a limited degree to cover, for example,
the tax and duties associated with the project expenditures). During the operational phase the fiscal impact
could tum positive, as the health information infrastructure frees up human and technological resources
within the participating sector management and service provider institutions (e.g., resources used
administrative reporting and communications).
Overall Government Fiscal Stance. The GOS's fiscal stance has been broadly in balance in the years since
Independence in 1991.  Fiscal management has been largely prudent and is expected to continue,
notwithstanding the challenges of the on-going economic transformation. In particular, the GOS is
committed to supporting the health sector. The independence of the HIIS and its management of the
wage-based, compulsory health insurance contribution, provides a particularly secure financing base,
particularly for the Phase II of the Program.
3. Technical:
Health Policy. The technical foundations of the health policy support component includes the MOH's
"White Paper" on health strategy currently in Parliament; the 1997/8 health sector analysis undertaken by a
Bank consultant (Ms. Abby Bloom) and discussed with the GOS; the 1999 analysis of the Australian
Health Insurance Commission; various EU and UN assistance programs, as well as the Program
Development Letter. Together they outline a credible and appropriate health sector strategy, which the
project investments will further.
Health Information Standards. In addition to filling any gaps in the required information, a critical
ingredient to improving the management of the health sector and health institutions, as well as improving
the provision of health care services, is the ability to bring together -- at the locus of decision-taking --
related information of different types (e.g., clinical, economic, statistical, etc.).  Invariably, these
information must come from (and be passed to) disparate information systems. These include systems
within a specific agency as well as systems from outside its institutional boundaries. Given:
the heterogeneity of existing "legacy" information systems (within each health institution and
among them);
the inevitable heterogeneity of such systems in the future; and
the continuous process of change occurring in such systems,
the only realistic hope for achieving the kind of integration which is required to efficiently and effectively
operate in the health sector is by developing and exploiting a rich set of common information standards.
Such common information standards must be established at a number of logical/conceptual levels. A
standard architecture must define the large functional blocks of health information systems and defne the
interfaces between the functional blocks. A well-founded architecture standard will then allow for stability
in the overall system, despite continuous change in the functional blocks and heterogeneous system
- 25 -



implementations. This stability requires well-specified and robust interface standards, where the interfaces
are understood not only to be at the technological level ("bit-ways"), but also at the level of data structures-,
definitions, terminologies and coding standards. At this level, the substantive content of health information,
its uses and relationships are paramount. Although international standards and frameworks exist, in the
final analysis, such standards must be country-specific and determined by language, usage, and the
country's health sector practices and traditions.  The Project will exploit, among other international
standards, the Health Information Systems Architecture (HISA) as devised by the Technical Committee
251 (TC251) of the European Center for Standards (CEN). Building and maintaining a consensus-based
set of standards is the objective of the Information Standards Formulation Component. These standards
must cover: (i) Subject of Care; (ii) Health Characteristics; (iii) Health Care Activities; (iv) Health Care
Resources; and (v) Health Information Systems Authorization (i.e.., access; security, privacy, etc.).
Health Information Systems.  Technologically, the crux of the project is the implementation of
standards-based, information  "brokers".   At the national level, a National Health  Information
Clearinghouse (NHICH) will be established (modeled loosely on the clearinghouse and central depository
functions often employed in modern financial systems). The Clearinghouse will serve as a central "hub" for
the inter-agency exchange of health related information (clinical, economic, statistical, normative, etc.). As
a single institutional point of focus and as a intermediary for inter-agency exchange of health information at
the national level, the Clearinghouse will drastically reduce the complexity of designing, implementing and
maintaining all the necessary bi-lateral links among the numerous entities in the health sector. (With a
central "star" logical topology, the number of links is equal to the number of agencies. In contrast, the
"mesh" of linkages required without a central intermediary approaches the number the number of entities
squared). In addition to the advantages in the implementation phase, the Clearinghouse will also serve as a
natural point of focus for maintaining over time the national health infonnation standards upon which such
cross-agency system inter-operation must rest.
An analogous logic applies at the agency-specific level (e.g., hospital, clinic, MOH, Health Insurance
Institute, etc.). At the agency-specific level, the challenge is to make the full set of existing (and future)
application systems inter-operate with each other and be accessible from across the institution. More
generally the challenge is also and to focus the (clinical) health information flowing among health service
entities within the regional "catchment" area for which the hospital (or regional center) is the point of
focus. One approach to integration which has been repeatedly tried and shown to generally fail is the
creation of a uniform monolithic system. At this stage, the most contemporary approach is to integrate
disparate systems through the use of a common information "broker" based on standardized "middleware"
technologies. Under this type of arrangement, each application system "knows" how to exchange
information with the broker through standardized (and stable) message formats. These messages invoke the
middleware to provide standardized communication and other technology services, including message
translation and synchronization with other applicationl systems. In this way, change in and extensions to
the various applications system elements are isolated from each other and the entire system can be steadily
enhanced through extensions to the middleware functionality.
These information "brokers" (at the sector and agency-specific levels) handle data on both the operational I
transactions level (i.e., predominantly patient-connected data flowing at the service-provision level) as well
as the management / "control" level (i.e., predominantly aggregate data flowing "upwards" through
agencies and from service providers to policy makers and other agencies at the "control" level of the sector
-- with normative information flowing "downwards".)
Bringing the sector level and the agency-specific level integration together is a matter of standardizing on a
set of common middleware services and related message formats (including data structure, content and
- 26 -



access authorization standards).  In this way, for example, an operational system  which manages
laboratory procedures can -- at the institution level -- feed the ADT / patient record system, the
administrative financial and cost-accounting systems, as well as the quality assurance tracking system. In
turn, these systems can feed statistical, epidemiological, quality monitoring, and financial systems run by
other agencies, such as the Health Insurance Institute or Public Health Institute. Correspondingly, the
laboratory support system may also bring to the operational level information on statistical, financial or
procedural norms to strengthen the laboratory staff and/or manager's ability to make well-informed,
evidence-based and cost-sensitive clinical decisions.  As indicated in the discussion of the Health
Information Standards Formulation Component, this type of system inter-operation rests on common
information standards. In particular, it rests on common and consistent understandings of such concepts as
"patient", "referral" "case", "acute diabetes", "hospitalization", an "x-ray", an "hour of nursing-time", etc.
Moreover, for cost-accounting and quality of care analysis, the concepts must be properly aligned to ensure
the diagnoses, resources, procedures and outcomes can be associated into meaningful cost / care events.
Obviously, a comprehensive set of fully-consistent and fully-aligned concepts for all dimensions of health
care cannot be constructed in a single step. Indeed, developing such standards is a permanent and
never-ending process of formulation, revision and convergence. Nevertheless, the central broker model of
system inter-operation provides an approach that is technologically feasible as well as a common focus for
incrementally devising, implementing and refining the information standards (based on real in-country
experiences and proven methods).
Accordingly, the Health Information Systems Implementation Component supports a set of multi-track
systems implementations for: (i) the central Health Information Clearinghouse; (ii) three pilot hospital sites
(including linkages to primary health care facilities in the locality of one pilot hospital); (iii) three key
health sector institutions -- the MOH, Public Health Institute, and Health Insurance Institute.
Initially, the implementations will focus on standard representations of broad categories of information
types, as well those specific information standards where agreement can be reached most rapidly (either due
to specific Slovene circumstances or where international standards are most well articulated). As a result,
the initial implementations will concentrate on the enhancing the flow of aggregated control / management
data. Subsequent iterations will add more detailed control / management level data and support a richer set
of patient-connected, transactional level data (subject to the development and implementation of suitable
methods to ensure privacy and other legal dimensions of information interchange, storage and use). By
basing the implementation work on common information standards, the various specific systems
implementations can remain reasonably well synchronized, despite the large differences in the nature and
circumstances that will shape each agency's specific implementation.
Each of the systems financed under the Phase I of the APL will take place through staged, incremental
implementations over the 2000-3 period.  Based on the progress of standards formulation and on
experiences in the pilot hospitals and other initial implementations, the standards-based approach will be
generalized to the rest of the health sector during the subsequent 3 years under Phase II of the APL. Given
the preponderance of health expenditures accounted by the hospital sub-sector and the relatively advanced
stage of automation in other sub-sectors, the national roll-out will concentrate in the hospital sub-sector
(but not to the exclusion of strengthening other sub-sectors, such as primary and public health).
In sum, the Project's technological and methodological approaches reflect both the requirements of a
relatively advanced economy as well as institutional and technical capabilities which are reasonably close
to those found in the advanced OECD countries. In fact, the modest size of the country and absence of
long-standing technical and institutional arrangements, provide Slovenia with an excellent opportunity to
- 27 -



"leap frog" some of the systems development steps which a larger country -- with a more entrenched set of
institutional and technical arrangements -- would have to make.
Cost Estimates.  Costs associated with policy support, institution-building and information systems
implementations are notoriously hard to forecast. They all depend, to an exceptional degree, on details
which only emerge in the process of implementation and entail a large measure of "learning-by-doing". In
the case of information systems, the extraordinary rate of technological development and market evolution
make such investments even more difficult to make.  Nevertheless, the overall estimates of costs by
component and category of investment items are reasonably accurate, since much of the variation in the
specific item forecasts will average out. Also a fifteen percent physical contingency should be adequate to
accommodate the residual uncertainty. Domestic and intemational inflation rates are both low and
relatively stable, with the forecast domestic rate converging towards the international rate during the Phase
I period (i.e., from approximately 6 percent per annum in 2000 to 3 percent per annum in 2003).
Information technology prices, however, are forecast to remain unchanged. This reflects the largely
offsetting factors of falling core technology prices and expanding functionality (i.e., many "pricing points"
remain fairly stable in the IT industry.)
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The MOH. In contrast with most ministries of health (particularly in the ECA Region), the MOH of
Slovenia is very lightly staffed (approximately 40 FTEs). In light of its on-going, permanent
responsibilities, the MOH does not have the capacity to implement the project by itself with its own
resources. As a result, the project employs a governance and management structure that involves the direct
and formal participation by the executives of the key stakeholder institutions in the Project Board (MOF,
MOH, HIIS, UMCL, and the Health Council). This also echoes the consensus-based approach practiced in
Slovenia among the key health sector management institutions. In addition tot the Project Board, technical
managers and technical staff from these key institutions will provide much of the human resources for the
other project structures (Project Assurance Team, Project Management and Professional Support Unit, the
technical Working Groups, and the (sub)-Project Implementation Teams)
Other key involved institutions. The HIIS, UMCL, Health Council, IPH are all technically strong
institutions within their respective spheres. By formally bringing the key executives, technical managers
and technical staff from these institutions into the various project structures, the Project will concentrate
and orchestrate these resources and achieve project goals and project implementation activities that are, by
their nature, health sector-spanning.
The National Health Information Clearinghouse. The unified National Health Information System
depends on the establishment and operations of a National Health Information Systems Clearinghouse. As
the central element in the national health information infrastructure, the key to success will be an
institutional structure and governance arrangements which ensure efficient, effective and responsive
operation of this "utility". As an self-standing, independent public agency, the Clearinghouse will be
provided with a full complement of institutional development investments, including: (a) legal,
administrative, and technical foundations; (b) staffing and management resources and training; (c)
procedural development; (d) premises, furnishings and other equipment; as well as (e) operational, financial
and business information systems. In addition, the governance structure must balance the different
interests, objectives and constraints of all health sector participants, irrespective of their size and overall
- 28 -



influence in the health sector.
b. Project management:
Given the importance of project management and project quality assurance (including monitoring and
evaluation) the Project provides for a separate component for project management and professional
support. This component will build the necessary capacity and provide the necessary resources for:
project coordination, project governance, project administration, public information, and project quality
assurance. The project will finance the establishment and operations of a Project Management and
Professional Support Unit (PM-PS Unit). The head of the PM-PS Unit will be responsible for overall
project coordination (technical, institutional, and political), as well as for the management of the PM-PS.
The PM-PS Unit will provide for the administrative functions of procurement, disbursement, financial
management, record keeping, and related legal support. The PM-PS Unit will ensure timely and proper
project auditing and handle the public information and relations activities.
Adapted from the PRINCE2 project management methodology, the project will be governed by a Project
Board composed of the senior officers of the key health sector institutions and the MOF State Secretary for
Budget. The Project Board will be complemented by an Project Assurance Team which is constituted from
the membership of the of the initial Project Steering Committee (primarily senior technical managers of the
participating health institutions). The PM-PS Unit will provide secretariat services to the Project Board
and the Project Assurance Team, as well as all of the various working groups under the Health Policy
Support and the Health Information Standards Formulation Components. Knowledge management
resources will be available to ensure the analytical and professional work under the project is up-to-date
and of the highest quality practical.
In addition to the Project Assurance Team, the PM-PS Unit will arrange independent assessments of the
quality of the project activities, as appropriate. As part of quality assurance, the PM-PS Unit will develop
and implement a rich set of project indictors, including baseline data. These will be used to track the
progress and impact of the project, as well as provide the information for the project triggers which will be
used to assess the appropriateness of passing from Phase I to Phase II of the program (under the APL).
The PM-PS Unit will also lead the analyses and formulation of lessons-learned in the pilot implementations
of the health information systems.
The project will primarily finance (local) technical assistance for the operations of the PM-PS Unit, project
auditing, and aspects of knowledge management and Professional Support.  Given the small and
constrained staffing level of the MOH, the PM-PS will be staffed and provided with the necessary office
and related operating resources under contract with a consulting firm (or firms).
5. Social:
Social groups I social and cultural factors.
The project undertakes a comprehensive modernization of the information systems of the entire health
sector on a nation-wide basis. Consequently all social groups are potentially affected by the project
investments. However, the impact is indirect in relation to the project investments. Moreover, the
differential impact among social groups (if any) is not predictable with any practical meaningfulness.
Given the high degree of socialized health services, the current world-class levels of accessibility, and the
- 29 -



strong social solidarity in the area of health, the most meaningful forecast of project impact is through a
counter-factual: To the extent that the project investments avert a health financing crisis, vulnerable
populations (elderly, poor, women, children, etc.) are protected from reductions in health services due to
fiscal difficulties.
Social and cultural factors are unlikely to affect the project in a significant way, except. possibly, the
strong social solidarity among the Slovene population on health matters. This solidarity will translate into
cautious and measured approach to the health policy and reform analysis activities under the project. This
is reflected in the design of the project through the deliberate and careful building of a information base on
the real characteristics of the national health system as a basis for policy and reform analyses. Conversely,
the project is unlikely to affect social and cultural features of the Slovene society in a significant fashion.
Stakeholders
Major stakeholders are: MOH; MOF, Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia (HIIS); Institute of Public
Health; Medical Council, and the pilot hospitals' management and staff.
Each of the stakeholders recognizes their own institutional perspectives and internal information
requirement. Yet each of the stakeholders recognizes the substantial collective benefits of a unified national
health information system, which is based on common standards, common decision-taking, and common
information technology infrastructure. The major concern voiced by each of the specific institutions was
the need to achieve the balance between the comprehensive approach required for a unified national health
information system and the need for practical and tractable technical solutions that also address
institution-specific requirements.
The program design incorporates the perspectives and concerns of the stakeholders by envisioning a
carefully staged APL. This includes a comprehensive analysis of the information needs (for operations,
management and policy-making across the sector), information and technology standards, as well as the
required supporting institutional arrangements to implement a unified national health system. This would
be followed by pilot implementations in the hospital sub-sector (three sites). These pilots would be
carefully rooted in the operational and management requirements of the specific institutions, yet also be
consistent with the overall national system design. Phase II would generalize institution-specific
operational/management systems across the whole of the health sector on a national basis. Technical
interfaces for the various institutions in the various sub-sectors, as well as the common technology
infrastructure (e.g., the National Health Information Clearinghouse), would be developed and deployed as
the requirements dictate. In this fashion, the balance between comprehensive system design and
institution-specific implementations can be maintained. Also, the balance between ambitious and tractable
can be similarly maintained.
Social issues.
The project investments are in health information systems and policy analyses. The scope is the entire
health sector on a national basis. Accordingly, the project's potential impact on vulnerable groups in the
population is rather indirect. Slovenia can boast of world-class health access standards and a very strong
social solidarity in health. More generally, as measured with UNDP methods, Slovenia is comparable to
the most favorable quartile of EU countries in terms of poverty. The project is highly unlikely to change
these facts. Social representation of vulnerable groups is rather well served in Slovenia, through an active
Parliament and an accountable public management. In addition, the Health Insurance Institute is an
independent public agency which is governed by elected representatives from various social groups
- 30 -



(employers, various employee groups, various consumer groups). The HIIS will play a central role in the
project in the design and implementation phases (through the Project Board, Steering Committee and the
various technical working groups). In short, the nature of the project is such that explicit mechanisms to
include vulnerable groups are not practical. The impact is too indirect and the substance is too technical.
One partial exception to this relates to the issue of data privacy. Slovenia continues to refine and update its
laws on health data privacy, drawing on strict EU regulatory standards in this area. This is a dynamic
subject (in the EU, as well as elsewhere). Representation of social concerns are well served through the
Parliament and a separate, project-specific representation mechanism on data security is not warranted at
this stage.
Mitigation of adverse social effects.
None anticipated.
Monitoring and evaluation of social impact.
The project is fundamentally about building information systems and information bases on health services
and health outcomes across the whole sector on a national basis. Thus, the project outputs and outcomes
include data on the social impact of health services. These data will be actively monitored and utilized as
input into the health policy / reform analyses conducted under the project (as well as utilized in the normal
course of health sector management activities). In short, the kind of information gathering and analysis
activities normally associated with social assessment are embedded directly in the project outputs and
outcomes. In contrast to typical projects, such assessments are not separate adjuncts to the project
activities.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: C
The Project involves no construction or use of natural resources. It leads to no environmental discharges.
In so far that the Project leads to greater illumination of health sector resource use and more efficient
management of such resource usage, it should indirectly contribute to environmentally sustainable
economic development. Even a reformed, 21st Century health system will most certainly be based on less
physical infrastructure. Thus, the project is unlikely to lead to construction activities in the post-project
period (save, of course, some re-habilitation / refurbishment work with very limited environmental impact).
- 31 -



7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Preparation           Implementation        Operation
beneficiaries / community  Private health care  Private health care  Private health care
groups                 providers (Surgical    providers - COL.     providers - COL.
Sanitarium) - CON.    Private health insurance Private health insurance
Private health insurance  provider - COL.   provider - COL.
provider (Adriatic    Private health        Private health informatics
Insurance Company) -   informatics suppliers -  suppliers - COL.
CON.                  COL.                  Parliamentarians (Chair of
Private health        Parliamentarians (Chair Health Committee) - CON.
informatics suppliers -   of Health Committee) -  Employer & Employee
CON;                  CON.                  group representatives (HII
Employer & Employee   Employer & Employee  Assembly) -- CON
group representatives    group representatives   Parliamentarians (Chair of
(HIIS Assembly) -     (HIIS Assermbly) --COL Health Committee) - IS.
CON.                  Parliamentarians (Chair
Parliamentarians (Chair  of Health Commrittee) -
of Health Committee) -  CON.
CON.
intermediary NGOs      Medical Chamber -      Medical Chamber -    Medical Chamber - COL.
CON.                  COL.
academic institutions  Ljubljana University   Ljubljana University    Ljubljana University
medical faculty - COL.  medical faculty - COL. medical faculty - COL.
local government                              local health officials -   local health officials -
COL.                 COL.
other donors                                  EU-PHARE - CON.   EU-PHARE - CON.
other
Note: identify each
stakeholder and indicate:
IS = information sharing;
CON = consultation; COL
= collaboration.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The key stakeholders are identified and discussed above.
- 32 -



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The development of appropriate governance and financing arrangements for the National Health
Information Clearinghouse (NHIC) will be critical to the long-term political and financial sustainability of
the project investments. Financial sustainability is ensured through improved stability and certainty of the
overall financial envelope for the health system based on agreements reached between the MOF, the MOH
and the HIIS. The Economic analysis demonstrates positive return on project investments. The project
does not generate significant incremnental recurrent costs. Political risks and sustainability issues are
addressed in the table below. In addition, the Government has agreed to conduct a public relations
campaign to explain project content and benefits to stakeholders and the general public. In this context
particular emphasis will be given to concems related to data privacy and protection according to EU
standards and laws.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Ratirg   |    Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Appropriate management skills and         M         The project will finance appropriate
incentives exist or are developed to use           training and skills upgrading in
the National Health Information System              management. The HIIS has already
outputs to imnprove health system                  acquired substantial knowledge with
performance                                         respect to IT management as part of the
Smart Card project.
Poorly performing facilities face         M         The preparation and introduction of a
incentives or sanctions to ensure                  new, performance based hospital and
cooperation with provision of data to              provider reimbursement and payment
National Health Information System                 system will create the appropriate
incentive framework.
Adequate stakeholder support and          M         The project has been jointly developed
political commitment is developed to               and will be jointly overseen by all
adopt health system reforms.                        stakeholders represented at the Project
Board.
Adequate management training.
Ongoing information provision about
project.
Rewards and sanctions designed to
promote timely data provision.
All important decisions must be agreed
by consensus.
Advisory group members will moderate
consensus -building process on specific
issues.
Close co-operation with World Bank
representatives
- 33 -



Legal framework (draft law in             S         Authors and drafting institutions IPH,
Parliament) in Slovenia can be adapted              MOH have been consulted.
to accommodate new health data                      Parliamentary Health Committee has
management paradigm.                               been briefed. EU laws serve as model
for Slovenian law makers.
From Components to Outputs
Appropriate HR management, including      M         Strong support by stakeholders'
motivation and rewards, in the                      institutional management (MOF, MOH,
institutions involved for successful               HIIS, IPH, UMCL).
project implementation.                             Independent Project Management and
Professional Support Unit.
Clear TORs.
Consensus about project's importance
and active stakeholder participation.
Regular checkpoint reports, SPN,
auditing and outside evaluation.
Regular monitoring of a project
progress by PAT and Extemnal Advisory
Group.
Reward system and incentives for
project participants based on delivered
results.
Fonnal contracts with all project staff
and project participants.
Cooperation and coordination is          M         Regular Project Board meetings.
sustained among project stakeholders.              Regalar Project Assurance Team (PAT)
meetings.
PAT members should be informed
about all projects progress within
stakeholder institutions and be
authorized to coordinate with relevant
projects.
All important decisions must be agreed
by consensus.
Overall Risk Rating                       M         Careful and comprehensive project
design, technical, institutional and
management.
Close supervision by Bank and External
Advisory Group.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
*   Data privacy issues:
- 34 -



Mitigation:   The project will assure that EU guidelines regarding data privacy are strictly followed.
Data privacy will be assured through appropriate institutional structures (National Health Informationt
Clearinghouse - NHIC), technical instruments (encryption, data protection, data protection working group,
etc.). This issue has been addressed early on by the project team and counterparts and will be closely
monitored in accordance with national law and EU regulations. The government will employ a public
relations and information campaign to better explain project content and benefits to stakeholders, media and
general public to mitigate opposition caused by partial or misleading information, in particular concerning
data protection, privacy and adherence to local and EU legal framework. HIIS has experience in managing
this risk, that was similar during the introduction of the Smart Card Project.
*   Creation of Clearinghouse as a new institution:
Mitigation:   The project will assure that institutional, legal and technical preparations are technically
sound, transparent and politically acceptable to stakeholders. Financial arrangements for sustainable usage
of this utility will be established. International best practice will be used (New Zealand, Sweden, UK,
Italy, USA) to capitalize on lessons learned regarding the operation of clearinghouses or data warehouses
both in the health and financial sectors. A study tour to New Zealand and Australia to learn from local
experience of relevance for the Slovenian context is planned before Project Effectiveness. Functioning of
clearinghouse according to above parameters will be considered as trigger indicator for Phase II in this
APL.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower has employed, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, consultants to staff and manage the PM-PS Unit; and (b) the
PM-PS Unit has been established and is operating satisfactory to the Bank; (c) a financial management
system, satisfactory to the Bank has been established; (d) the Borrower has appointed the auditors
satisfactory to the Bank, referred to in Section 4.01 b.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreernents.]
Financtal Covenants:
Financial Management System:
a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank.
b) The Borrower shall have the records, accounts and financial statements of the financial management
system and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank.
c) The Borrower shall carry out a time bound action plan for the strengthening of the financial
management system in order to enable the Borrower to, not later than December 31, 2000, to prepare
quarterly PMRs acceptable to the Bank.
Implementation Program:
- 35 -



PIP:
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Project Board:
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the Project Board with composition and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
PM-PS Unit:
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PM-PS Unit with resources, staff and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and shall assign to it responsibility for overall Project
implementation and coordination including:
a) preparation of bidding documents and administration of bidding procedures and of contracts under the
Project;
b) preparation of disbursement applications under the Loan;
c) management of Special Account referred to in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement;
d) maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging for the audit thereof; and
(e) preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof, not later than 30 days after the end of
each quarter, to the Borrower and the Bank.
Annual Work Program:
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by September 30 in each year, for its review and
concurrence, an annual work program for the Project for the following calendar year, including
procurement and financing plans.
Technical Working Groups:
The Borrower shall maintain the Technical Working Groups until completion, satisfactory to the Bank, of
each such Group's activities, with resources, composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
NHIC:
The Borrower shall:
(a)    by December 1, 2000, complete under terms of reference agreed upon with the Bank and
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a study of the legal form, structure and
functions of the NHIC; and
(b)    based on the finding on such study and the Bank's comrnents thereon, commence by
January 1, 2001, the process for the establishment of NHIC in accordance with a time
schedule to be agreed upon with the Bank.
- 36 -



External Advisory Group (EAG):
By December 1, 2000, the Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project,
the External Advisory Group, with resources, composition and terns of reference, satisfactory to the Bank.
Policies, Procedures, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting:
The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and of measures included in the Program and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or
about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project; and
(c)   review with the Bank, by September 30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall request,
the report referred to above, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
H. Readiness for Implementation
EJ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
,1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Armin H. Fidler                  Annette Dixon                     Roger W. Grawe
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector          Country ManagerlDirector
- 37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Hiearcy o Obectves    KeyPerformnance
Hi__erarchy_ of   _je_ tive_   1  Indictors           Monitorinn  i Evaluation    Critical Assiirns   4
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*Health and Social Security  *Publicly-fmanced health    *MOF and MOH data (annual
Finance Reform to ensure a   expenditures are contained at reports)., EU and World
sustainable financing base,    a constant share of GDP  Bank reports.
quality and accessibility  (below 8%).
standards, and
cost-effectiveness.
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:           (from Purpose to Goal)
Sustain performance of the  1. Mortality and morbidity    1. MOF and MOH data  *Economic growth over the
health care system, in the face rates as expressed in burden of (annual reports). HIIS data    duration of project
of adverse demographic and  disease indicators, as well as  (annual reports). Institute for  implementation is sustained
epidemiological trends;   service indicators departing   Public Health data (annual  at recent levels.
increases in health resource   from a 1999 baseline converge reports).
prices; and rising public and  to EU average by 2010.                            *Domestic and international
health provider expectations --                                                   political determinants of EU
while maintaining long term  2. Universal access to health                        accession remain positive.
fiscal sustainability,.   care and equity within the  2. MOH data (annual reports).
system is maintained, while   HIIS data (annual reports).   oPolitical stability is
service standards, quality of  Institute for Public Health  maintained after CY2000
services and user satisfaction, data (annual reports) and  elections and stable
all departing from 1999    periodic user surveys.      government is established.
baseline data, continue to
improve.
3. Institutional and legal
framework of the health and   3. WHO-HFA database. EU
social security sector is in full Agenda 200 Progress Reports
compliance with the
stipulations of the acquis
communautaire, that is a
pre-condition for EU
accession.
- 38 -



Key Performance       |
Hierarchy of Objectives     t     Indmicators         Monjtoreng p     Evaluation  C(rtbcat Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome I      Impact      Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Phase 1:                   Phase 1                                                 *  Continuity is maintained
* The Ministry of Health   1. Refined payment system, in 1. Evaluation report for     in the Government's
(MOH), supported by        particular hospital        hospital reimbursement model     health sector policy
appropriately-processed health reimbursement model by the  piloted at University Clinical  direction and project
information from the Institute HIIS, pilot-tested, evaluated   Center Ljubljana. End of Pilot  support through the
for Public Health (IPH),   and implemented by 2003.    Phase impact evaluation study.  2000 election cycle.
provides health purchasing
priorities to the Health   2. Health care capacity    2. Analytic and normative     *  Exogenous trends in
Insurance Institute of Slovenia management method adopted  documents prepared by Health  mortality and morbidity
(HIIS), on evidence-based and and introduced in       Policy Working Group on          do not substantially shift
health status principles.  participating health       health care capacity             or deteriorate (e.g.,
The participating Health   institutions, based on   management. End of Pilot         income-driven and/or
Providers in the system pilot,  training, agreements on  Phase impact evaluation study.  behavior-driven trends).
including the, University  definitions and standards by
Medical Center of Ljubljana   2003.                                                 *  Responses of policy
(UMCL), adopt improved                                3. Analytic and normative        makers, managers and
business and case          3. Health Information      documents prepared by Health     staff in the health
management practices, based  Systems Architecture     Information Standards            system and patients to
on purchasing incentives from Standards (HISA) introduced  Working Groups. End of Pilot  new information and
the Health Insurance Institute and adopted, following  Phase impact evaluation study.  changed incentives are
of Slovenia (HIIS) and     guidelines of Technical                                     consistent with the
updated practice norms issued Cormnittee 251 (TC25 1) of                               objective.
by the MOH.                the European Center of
Standards (CEN) and EU data
protection, by 2003.
Phase 2
Phase2:                    4. National Health         4. Annual operational and
An integrated national   Information Clearinghouse    management reports of NHIC.
health information system is  (NHIC) established and
used by participating sector   operational at national level,
institutions (MOH, HIIS,   effectively replacing existing
PHIS, UMCL) to sharpen their legacy information channels
core business functions and to among health sector
manage more efficiently and  stakeholders.
effective health care financing                       5. Operational and
and provision securing fiscal  5. Clinical, financial and  management reports of subject
balance, equity and quality in  administrative information is  hospital.
the sector.                available from at least two
district hospitals and
respective primary health care
catchment area to produce
comparative performance,
financial and asset
management, and accounting
reports.
- 39 -



6. National (HIIS) Smart    6. Annual management and
Card Project integrated into   operational reports of HIIS.
new sector information
architecture, facilitating
improved case management,
pharmaceutical prescription
tracking, preventive care
monitoring.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Selected Health policy    1. Approved plans for    1. Analytical and normative   *Appropriate management
area proposals analyzed, plans improvements in selected  documents prepared by Health  skills and incentives exist or
formulated, tools for      health policy areas.       Policy Working Groups.       are developed to use
implementation and                                                                 National Health Information
monitoring prepared                                                                System outputs to improve
system performance.
2. Health information      2. Approved health         2. Analytical and normative   *Poorly performing facilities
standards promulgated.    information standards for each documents prepared by Health  face incentives or sanctions
of the five major CEN TC-25 1 Information Standards    to ensure cooperation with
HISA standard areas: (a)   Working Groups.             provision of data to National
subject of care; (b) health                             Health Information System.
characteristics; (c) health care
activities; (d) health care                           *Adequate stakeholder
resources; and (e) health                              support and political
information access                                      commitment is developed to
authorization.                                          adopt system reforms.
-40 -



3.1 Health Information    3.1 Clearinghouse legally    3.1 Reports of the Project
Clearinghouse established and established and operating on a Implementation Team for the
made operational. National   stable and sustainable  NHIC.
Health Information Base   financing and organizational
accumulating high-quality,   model.
relevant and timely
information.
3.2. Site-specific        3.2a Site-specific         3.2a. Reports of the Project
clearinghouse systems     clearinghouse systems      Implementation Team for the
established, made         operational.               pilot sites.
operational, and supporting
standards-based, management                          3.2b End of Pilot Phase
and operational information   3.2b Hospitals management  impact evaluation study.
systems at health care    and operational systems
facilities.               enhanced through uniform
health information standards.
3.3a Analytical and normative
3.3 National Health       3.3a Standards-based       documents prepared by Health
Information System operating communication and      Information Standards
as an integrated whole    information interchange    Working Groups. End of Pilot
(pilot-phase and national  utilized across health    Phase impact evaluation study.
scope, Phase 1 and Phase 2,  institutions, in accordance
respectively)             with data protection
legislation (and EU standards)
and BS 7799 Security
Standards.                3.3b End of Pilot Phase
impact evaluation study.
3.3b National Health
Information Base accessible
and utilized by all key
stakeholders, in accordance
with data protection
legislation (and EU standards)
- 41-



Key Peiforrnaoce
Hierarchy of MObjevs          -       a                  it      &4 Ev.luatio    Critcal Asunptton
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Health Policy Support   PHASE 1 (Pilot Phase -    Quarterly project management eAppropriate HR
2000-2003)                reports                     management, including
US$13.3 million total cost.                           motivation and rewards, in
the institutions involved for
1.    US$2.2 million                                  successful project
2.    US$0.8 million                                  implementation.
3.    US$7.5 rnillion
4.    US$2.8 million
2. National Health                                                             *Cooperation and
Information System                                                               coordination is sustained
Formulation                                                                      among project stakeholders.
3. Information Systems    PHASE 2 (National Roll-out
Implementation            Phase - 2004-2006)
3.1 National Health       US$16.1  million total cost.
Information Clearinghouse.
3.2 Project site-specific  1.    US$1.3 million
clearinghouses (Hospitals,    2.    US$0.3 million
MOH/IPH/HIIS & other      3.    US$13.8 million
health institutions)      4.    US$0.7 million
4. Project Management and
Professional Support
4.1 Project coordination and
administration
4.2 Project monitoring, QA
and evaluation
4.3 Public and professional
awareness
-42 -



Annex 2: Project Description
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Diagnostic:
At the national level, health issues manifest in challenges to the sustainability of domestic expenditures on
health care services. With health care expenditures approaching 9 percent of GDP, Slovenia has relatively
little room to enlarge health care expenditures (based on international experience). Sustainability of health
care expenditures, especially in the face of inexorable demand for health services, rests on improvements in
the value obtained from health expenditures and through adjustments to the mode of health finance.
Adjusting incentives to both suppliers and consumers plays a pivotal role in extracting the best value per
tolar spent. Adjusting the financing model -- away from widespread exemptions from co-payments and
coverage of co-payments through voluntary insurance, to a system of tightly targeted exemptions for
co-payment with voluntary insurance used only for supplementary services or higher quality facilities --
may be necessary to maintaining a high level of accessibility (of core services), while relieving the fiscal
pressures on the publicly-financed, compulsory health care system.
At the sector level of health management, Slovenia needs to sharpen and strengthen the roles of the key
health sector institutions: The MOH needs to strengthen is role as priority-setter and policy-maker. The
Public Health Institute needs to sharpen its role in health surveillance and in policy analysis. The Health
Insurance Institute needs to deepen its role in service planning and priority-setting, and as a selective
purchaser of evidence-based health services. Together, each institution must fulfill its role in close
coordination with the others, as well as with important sector bodies, such as the Medical Council. As a
basis for this coordination, the various entities must move closer to a common information base (common /
consistent definitions, commnon / consistent sources, etc.). Currently, many parallel and inconsistent
information systems and channels operate. In addition, gaps existing in health information, particularly the
kind of information required to manage the quality of care delivery and other outcomes and evidence-based
objectives.
At the level of the health care institutions (and at each subordinate management unit within such facilities),
managers and other decision-takers need to better:
* Understand and monitor the health characteristics of their clients.
O Understand and monitor the effectiveness and efficiency with which their institution provides its
services -- relative to cost and quality norms.
* Select and monitor the allocation of institutional resources -- within the policy and financial
frameworks established at the sector level.
In addition, managers must find ways to improve the effectiveness and efficiency which health services are
provided across various institutions. To achieve genuine evidence-based medicine, the entire referral chain
must work efficiently and "seamlessly" to manage the health of individuals -- instead of the traditional
focus on managing "cases". Also, to make continuous improvements in efficiency and effectiveness of
health care, resource allocations must be optimized across institutions within the same sub-sector, as well
as among institutions across sub-sectors. For example, hospitals often need to divest certain procedures
and concentrate in others; also separate long-term care units may be more cost-effective than provision of
geriatric care in an intensively-staffed acute hospital. This requires that certain capacities be consolidated
at specific sites to capture economies of scale and to ensure quality of medical procedures which are
achievable only through adequate volumes of such procedures. Similarly, hospitals typically need to
- 43 -



further shift in-patient services to out-patient arrangements and community care service providers. Also,
the primary health sub-sector would benefit from a continued expansion of consumer choice between thc
"traditional" model of public provision of primary health care services (i.e., a primary health care centers)
and private primary service providers (e.g., family practices, primarily care specialists, etc.,) under
contract with the Health Insurance Fund (and other health insurance providers). At each level, addressing
the challenges of the health sector requires a complementary mixture of:
*   Policy reforms.
* Relevant, timely and reliable information to devise, calibrate and substantiate the reforms.
* Information management / communications tools which allow the full "cycle" of health
management information to permeate the sector.
This will allow decisions to be made on a well-informed basis of:
*   Who was diagnosed with what.
*   Who received what services, and where.
*   Who provided what services, and where.
*   What resources were utilized, by what provider unit.
*   What were the health outcomes of the services rendered.
Moreover, such decisions need to be taken with a clear knowledge of:
*   The policy norms associated with health care management and clinical practices.
* The financial signals / incentives provided by the health finance model.
A fully integrated and "seamless" national health information system is, in many ways, the "holy grail" of
health sector management. Many technical, institutional and other imnpediments have prevented most (but
not all) countries from making significant inroads towards this goal. Nevertheless, Slovenia exhibits a
number of important characteristics that indicate this it is likely to find the road relatively less impeded
These include: its relatively homogenous institutional, ownership and management structures in the health
sector; a relatively small population and compact geography, and a relatively high level of existing
information systems and related knowledge.
Overall Project Design:
The Program comprises two phases. Phase I covers an initial set of health policy support activities and
pilots of health information systems during a three and one half year period 2000-3. Phase 11 provides
support for follow-on reforms and for a national roll-out of health information systems during the
subsequent three years (2004-6). The project structure is common across the two phases, with the break
between the two phases serving as an opportunity to take stock of the reforms introduced in the Phase I and
the lessons leamed in the information systems pilots.
The Project contains four inter-locking components:
*   A Health Policy Support Component sets the policy context for the project, as well as focuses and
strengthens the on-going work on health sector reforms.
*   Based on existing requirements, plus those introduced through the policy reform / analysis process,
the second component -- Health Information Standards Formulation Component -- defines the
common architectural, interface, access, and content standards for health information in Slovenia.
- 44 -



*   Based upon these standards, the third component -- Health Information System Implementation
Component -- supports the creation of a nation-wide, sector-spanning, integrated healti-
information infrastructure.
*   The fourth component -- Project Management and Professional Support Component -- provides
critical inter-agency project coordination and facilitation for the above activities. It also provides
for project administration, project monitoring and evaluation and related project quality assurance
activities. (Note: quality assurance for health care is addressed under the first and second
components.)
By Component:
Project Component t - US$2.15 million
Health Policy Support Component. The Health Policy Support Component finances technical assistance
and related knowledge-management support for four thematic working groups including participants from
the MOH, the HIIS, the IPH, the UMCL and the MOF. Each working group will address an aspect of
health sector reform, based on the policy agenda of the Government. The working group will analyze the
current legal, technical and institutional situation, weigh reform options, assess intemational experience and
best practice, as well as revise information, legal and other requirements to devise, launch and sustain the
proposed reform elements. The groups will closely collaborate with ongoing projects such as the EU-Phare
financed CONSENSUS project on Social Security reform and the Quality of Care working group
championed by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia (MCS). The inter-institutional working group will be
guided by the approved policy agenda, put forward the Policy Note for this Program, the White Paper
(National Health Care Program of the Republic of Slovenia by 2004) produced by the MOH for
Parliamentary approval and the EU Accession Strategy. Project initiatives for the Phase I include:
*  Revision of payment mechanisms and reimbursement models for primary, secondary and tertiary
care: This working group will assess current implications of the prospective and capped budget
model for hospitals and propose more effective and quality oriented altematives, based on
intemational experience and best practice. A new reimbursement model will attain effective and
efficient resource management at all service levels and create an incentive framework that enhances
productivity, resolution and quality at each service level. The task force will model and pilot test
altematives, with participation of the UMCL and other pilot hospitals, and in close collaboration
with the CONSENSUS Project. The final goal is to work with intemational experts in developing
a suitable model for Slovenia, pilot test, adapt in case necessary and introduce it through a national
roll-out supported by Phase II of the Program.
*  Define and introduce health care capacity management methodology and practices in the service
network: This working group has the objective to support the strengthening of health care
management, both on institutional and on national levels. Specifically, the task force will focus on:
(i) design and implementation of appropriate management training programs for health sector, in
particular within a new incentive framework for efficient managing of hospitals and health centers;
(ii) define and introduce appropriate models for planning within the public health network; (iii)
define and select models for system monitoring and evaluation to improve organizational planning
and institutional management; (iv) define and introduce training programs for budget and
deliverables negotiations in line with the introduction of new reimbursement systems; and (v)
initiate preparative legislative work to introduce hospital autonomy/corporatization.
*   Improvement of efficiency and effectiveness in the Public Health Network and introduction of
algorithms linked to evidence-based medicine: This working group will define optimum resource
-45 -



allocation formulas for the public health network based on international experience. Expected
outputs are: (i) agreements on specific indicators and benchmarks for efficiency and effectiveness-
that are internationally accepted and comparable; (ii) a baseline survey on current performance
levels of all service levels (PHC, district hospitals, tertiary care services). The task force will
define appropriate diagnostic protocols and establish treatment guidelines using evidence-based
procedures depending on care level and complexity; evaluate a pharmnaceutical formulary to be
used for HIIS reimbursements and linked to Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs) and service levels,
as well as an assessment of diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitation and prevention protocols
expected to be ideally performed at the PHC level to strengthen the gatekeeping function. This
process would also facilitate the introduction of a unified classification of standard diagnostic and
therapeutic procedures (algorithms) including defined human resource standards. The working
group will prepare proceedings for hospital accreditation standards and professional licensing
policies.
Project Component 2 - US$0.76 million
Health Information Standards Formulation Component.           In addition to filling any gaps in the
required information, a critical ingredient to improving the mnanagement of the health sector and health
institutions, as well as improving the provision of health care services, is the ability to bring together -- at
the locus of decision-taking -- related information of different types (e.g., clinical, economic, statistical,
etc.). Invariably, these information must come from (and be passed to) disparate information systems.
These include systems within a specific agency as well as systems from outside its institutional boundaries.
The only realistic hope for achieving the kind of integration which is required to efficiently and effectively
operate in the health sector is by developing and exploiting a rich set of common information standards,
given:
3   The heterogeneity of existing "legacy" information systems (within each health institution and
among them).
3 The inevitable heterogeneity of such systems in the future.
* The continuous process of change occurring in such systems.
Such comnmon information standards must be established at a number of logical/conceptual levels. A
standard architecture must define the large functional blocks of health information systems and define the
interfaces between the functional blocks. A well-founded architecture standard will then allow for stability
in the overall system, despite continuous change in the functional blocks and heterogeneous system
implementations. This stability requires well-specified and robust interface standards, where the interfaces
are understood not only to be at the technological level ("bit-ways"), but also at the level of data structures,
definitions, terminologies and coding standards. At this level, the substantive content of health information,
its uses and relationships are paramount. Although international standards and frameworks exist, in the
fnal analysis, such standards must be country-specific and determined by language, usage, and the
country's health sector practices and traditions. The Project will exploit, among other international
standards, the Health Information Systems Architecture (HIISA) as devised by the Technical Committee
251 (TC251) of the European Center for Standards (CEN). Building and maintaining a consensus-based
set of standards is the objective of the Information Standards Formulation Component. These standards
must cover: (i) Subject of Care; (ii) Health Characteristics; (iii) HIealth Care Activities; (iv) Health Care
Resources; and (v) Health Information Systems Authorization (i.e., access; security, privacy, etc.).
-46 -



Additional standards must be established and maintained to allow these conceptual and technical standards
to be managed. This will make it possible to coordinate the outputs of the various working groups and,-
equally important, manage the process of continuous change in the concepts and technologies as they are
driven by ever-evolving business conditions and technological possibilities. The working group responsible
for these "meta-information" standards will also be responsible for coordination among the working groups
and developing common working methods.
In addition, other cross-cutting topics -- such as economic / financial information standards -- will be
handled by thematic groups drawn from the main working groups. As with the Health Policy Reform
working groups, the Project Management and Professional Support Unit will provide the necessary
secretariat and technical support to the health information standards working groups.
The Health Information Standards Formulation Component finances technical assistance and related
knowledge-management support to the working groups. The staffing, organization, and working methods
of the working groups and the cross-cutting thematic groups will be essentially the same as those for the
sub-groups under the Health Policy Support Component.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.51 million
Health Information Systems Implementation Component. Based on the work under the Health Policy
Support Component and under the Health Information Standards Formulation Component, the third
component will implement health information systems in various health sector institutions and tie these
institution-specific systems together in a nationally-integrated health information system. The system
implementations encompass the necessary package of training and technical support ingredients, in addition
to the information technologies.
Whereas, the systems implementation activities logically derive from the health reforms and health
information standards, in practice, the systems implementation activities and the reforms and
standards-setting work will be an iterative and interactive set of processes, with a substantial amount of
phasing, exploration and trial. This reflects the highly dynamic nature of information technologies as well
as the only partially understood interactions between information systems, institutional arrangements,
business process, regulations, and policy frameworks. The need to coordinated systems implementations
across multiple agencies further requires an incremental and exploratory approach. Consensus-building
and joint decision-taking in such a context requires a conscious step-by-step process, with ample room for
learning, correction and adjustment. The participating agencies must digest the changes to the operations
of their systems and in their business processes, learn from the experience, refine the implementation
approach, and reach a shared confidence level which allows the next round of work to go forward.
Technologically, the crux of the project is the implementation of standards-based, information "brokers".
At the national level, a National Health Information Clearinghouse (NHICH) will be established (modeled
loosely on the clearinghouse and central depository functions often employed in modem financial systems).
The Clearinghouse will serve as a central "hub" for the inter-agency exchange of health related information
(clinical, economic, statistical, normative, etc.).  As a single institutional point of focus and as a
intermediary for inter-agency exchange of health information at the national level, the Clearinghouse will
drastically reduce the complexity of designing, implementing and maintaining all the necessary bi-lateral
links among the numerous entities in the health sector. (With a central "star" logical topology, the number
of links is equal to the number of agencies. In contrast, the "mesh" of linkages required without a central
intermediary approaches the number the number of entities squared). In addition to the advantages in the
implementation phase, the Clearinghouse will also serve as a natural point of focus for maintaining over
-47 -



time the national health information standards upon which such cross-agency system inter-operation must
rest.
An analogous logic applies at the agency-specific level (e.g., hospital, clinic, MOH, HIIS, etc.). At the
agency-specific level, the challenge is to make the full set of existing (and future) application systems
inter-operate with each other and be accessible from across the institution. More generally the challenge is
to integrate the (clinical) health information flowing among health service entities within the regional "
catchment" area for which the hospital (or regional center) is the point of focus. One approach to
integration which has been repeatedly tried and shown to generally fail is the creation of a uniform
monolithic system. At this stage, the most contemporary approach is to integrate disparate systems through
the use of a common information "broker" based on standardized "middleware" technologies. Under this
type of arrangement, each application system "knows" how to exchange information with the broker
through standardized (and stable) message formats. These messages invoke the rniddleware to provide
standardized communication and other technology services, including message translation and
synchronization with other application systems. In this way, change in and extensions to the various
applications system elements are isolated from each other and the entire system can be steadily enhanced
through extensions to the middleware functionality.
These information "brokers" (at the sector and agency-specific levels) handle data on both the operational /
transactions level (i.e., predominantly patient-connected data flowing at the service-provision level) as well
as the management / "control" level (i.e., predominantly aggregate data flowing "upwards" through
agencies and from service providers to policy makers and other agencies at the "control" level of the sector
-- with normative data flowing "downwards".)
Bringing the sector level and the agency-specific level integration together is a matter of standardizing on a
set of common middleware services and related message formats (including data structure, content and
access authorization standards).  In this way, for example, an operational system which manages
laboratory procedures can -- at the institution level -- feed the ADT / patient record system, the
administrative financial and cost-accounting systems, as well as the quality assurance tracking system. In
turn, these systems can feed statistical, epidemiological, quality monitoring, and financial systems run by
other agencies, such as the Health Insurance Institute or Public Health Institute. Correspondingly, the
laboratory support system may also bring to the operational level information on statistical, financial or
procedural norms to strengthen the laboratory staff and/or manager's ability to make well-informed,
evidence-based and cost-sensitive clinical decisions.  As indicated in the discussion of the Health
Information Standards Formulation Component, this type of system inter-operation rests on common
information standards. In particular, it rests on common and consistent understandings of such concepts as
"patient" , "referral" "case", "acute diabetes", "hospitalization", an "x-ray", an "hour of nursing-time", etc.
Moreover, for cost-accounting and quality of care analysis, the concepts must be properly aligned to ensure
the diagnoses, resources, procedures and outcomes can be associated into meaningful cost / care events.
Obviously, a comprehensive set of fully-consistent and fully-aligned concepts for all dimensions of health
care cannot be constructed in a single step. Indeed, developing such standards is a permanent and
never-ending process of formulation, revision and convergence. Nevertheless, the central broker model of
system inter-operation provides an approach that is technologically feasible as well as a common focus for
incrementally devising, implementing and refining the information standards (based on real in-country
experiences and proven methods).
Accordingly, the Health Information Systems Implementation Component supports a set of multi-track
systems implementations for: (i) the central Health Information Clearinghouse; (ii) three pilot hospital sites
- 48 -



(including linkages to primary health care facilities in the locality of one pilot hospital); (iii) three key
health sector institutions -- the MOH, IPH, and HIIS.
Initially, the implementations will focus on standard representations of broad categories of information
types, as well those specific infornation standards where agreement can be reached most rapidly (either due
to specific Slovene circumstances or where intemational standards are most well articulated). As a result,
the initial implementations will concentrate on the enhancing the flow of aggregated control / management
data. Subsequent iterations will add more detailed control / management level data and support a richer set
of patient-connected, transactional level data (subject to the development and implementation of suitable
methods to ensure privacy and other legal dimensions of information interchange, storage and use). By
basing the implementation work on common information standards, the various specific systems
implementations can remain reasonably well synchronized, despite the large differences in the nature and
circumstances that will shape each agency's specific implementation.
Each of the systems financed under the Phase I of the APL will take place through staged, incremental
implementations over the 2000-3 period.  Based on the progress of standards formulation and on
experiences in the pilot hospitals and other initial implementations, the standards-based approach will be
generalized to the rest of the health sector during the subsequent 3 years under Phase II of the APL. Given
the preponderance of health expenditures accounted by the hospital sub-sector and the relatively advanced
stage of automation in other sub-sectors, the national roll-out will concentrate in the hospital sub-sector
(but not to the exclusion of strengthening other sub-sectors, such as primary and public health).
The project will finance a variety of technical assistance (local and foreign), information technologies, data
communications services, training, and knowledge management. It will also finance miscellaneous
equipment and minor refurbishment of office space (as required to establish the National Health
Information Clearinghouse as a small independent, non-for-profit public agency).
Project Component 4 - US$2.78 million
Project Management and Professional Support Component. The fourth component provides support for
project coordination, project governance, project administration, public information, and project quality
assurance. The project will finance the establishment and operations of a Project Management and
Professional Support Unit (PM-PS Unit). The head of the PM-PS Unit will be responsible for overall
project coordination (technical, institutional, and political), as well as for the management of the PM-PS
Unit. The PM-PS Unit will provide for the administrative functions of procurement, disbursement,
financial management, record keeping, and related legal support. The PM-PS Unit will ensure timely and
proper project auditing and handle the public information and relations activities.
Adapted from the formal PRINCE2 project management methodology, the project will be governed by a
Project Board composed of the senior officers of the key health sector institutions and the MOF State
Secretary for Budget. The Project Board will be complemented by an Project Assurance Team which is
constituted from the membership of the of the initial Project Steering Committee (primarily senior technical
managers of the participating health institutions). The PM-PS Unit will provide secretariat services to the
Project Board and the Project Assurance Team, as well as all of the various working groups under the
Health Policy Support and the Health Information Standards Formulation Components. Knowledge
management resources will be available to ensure the analytical and professional work under the project is
up-to-date and of the highest quality practical.
In addition to the Project Assurance Team, the PM-PS Unit will arrange independent assessments of the
-49 -



quality of the project activities, as appropriate. As part of quality assurance, the PM-PS Unit will develop
and implement a rich set of project indictors, including baseline data. These will be used to track the-
progress and impact of the project, as well as provide the information for the project triggers which will be
used to assess the appropriateness of passing from Phase 1 to Phase 2 of the project (under the APL). The
PM-PS Unit will also lead the analyses and formulation of lessons-learned in the pilot implementations of
the health information systems.
The project will primarily finance (local) technical assistance for the operations of the PM-PS Unit, project
auditing, and aspects of knowledge management and quality assurance. Given the small and constrained
staffing level of the MOH, the PM-PS will be staffed and provided with the necessary office and related
operating resources under contract with a consulting firm (or firms).
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Locral      Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $mfillion   US $million
0.00
Health Policy Support Component                            1.14         0.65          1.79
Health Information Standards Formulation Component        0.47          0.18         0.65
Health Information Systems Implementation Component       3.00          3.50         6.50
Project Management and Professional Support Component     2.31          0.00         2.31
0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                       6.92          4.33         11.25
Physical Contingencies                                   0.84          0.65          1.49
Price Contingencies                                      0.39          0.07         0.46
Total Project Costs              8.15          5.05        13.20
Front-end fee                    0.10          0.10
Total Financing Required               8.15         5.15         13.30
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million   US $rmillion
0.00
Goods                                                       0.72           3.81         4.53
Works                                                       0.15           0.00         0.15
Services                                                    5.88           1.24         7.12
Recurrent                                                   1.40          0.00          1.40
Total Project Costs     8.15           5.05        13.20
Front-end fee                    0.10         0.10
Total Financing Required      8.15          5.15         13.30
- 51 -



Annex 4
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis:
Information technology affects health care on many levels and in many ways. From a clinical perspective,
information systems facilitate efficient guidelines development, case management and outcomes evaluation.
From an economic perspective, health information systems contribute to increasing efficiency in production
and delivery, and reductions in cost. From a macro systems perspective, the way in which information is
collected, processed and utilized has an impact on the sustainability and preparedness of the health care
system to continue to respond adequately to the needs and demands of the clients it serves.
Yet, there does not exist any obvious protocol for evaluating how information systems affect care. While
cost reduction and quality improvements are typically fundamental goals inherent in technology decisions,
proof of the cause and effect relationship of the acquisition of information technology on cost reduction or
quality enhancement remains elusive. The fact that many of the important gains from a health information
system are intangible, difficult to observe in isolation and not readily quantifiable in economic terms, does
not help the evaluation either.
An additional challenge is posed by the specific features of the health sector in Slovenia, which is not going
through any immediate crisis in terms of fiscal balancing, access to care, quality of care and health
outcomes. Rather, the problems in Slovenia appear to be more of sustaining the present health system in the
face of an aging population, changes in disease pattems, rising consumer demands and the immanent
accession to the European Union and the attendant obligations to participate in cross-border health service
and financing arrangements.
For all these reasons, a precise cost-benefit analysis of the proposed investment in information systems for
health in Slovenia cannot be undertaken and is not suggested at this stage. Instead, the evaluation of the
proposed investment is made on the basis of a cost-recovery analysis that rests on extremely conservative
assumptions related to projected benefits from an information system.
Main Assumptions
It is assumed that improvements in health information systems in Slovenia will, through development of
superior case management systems and clinical guidelines, enable modest reductions in the cost of inpatient
treatment without compromising quality of care. These reductions will primarily come about due to
reduction in hospital stays, and be manifest in lower drug and hotel costs, and not through any reduction in
clinical or administrative workforce. Specifically, it is assumed that hospital stays will fall at rates varying
from 2.5% per annum to 5% per annum. Since a variety of factors may influence this trend, it is
(conservatively) assumed that health information systems contribute to only 20% to 30% of this decrease.
At the same time, it is assumed that the demand for all levels of health care by the elderly will increase
disproportionately, as a result of better case management and follow-up due to improved information
systems, as well as due to a general rise in life expectancy and behavioral changes following liberalization
of the economy. Specifically, it is assumed that the elderly have utilization rates for primary, specialist and
tertiary care one-and-a-half times higher than other age-groups.
- 52 -



Once set up, the health informnation system is assumed to continue to function and generate benefits over a
long time period. Learning-by-doing is also assumed, and the technology is expected to better respond to-
systemic needs over time. Specifically, the benefit stream is assumed to last 10 years, and the contribution
of the health information system to reduced costs is expected to increase gradually from 20% to 30% and
then remain at that level.
The realization of benefits attributable to the proposed investment in information systems is assumed to
begin only in the year 2002. The costs, however, begin in the year 2000.
The information system is assumed to have no impact on increasing revenue collection or improving
compliance.
Results
The study is comparative, in the sense that total health expenditures are computed with and without any
investments in information system. The net present value of the differential cash-flows are used to
determine the viability and the cost-recovery potential of the proposed investment.
The results of the analysis are summarized below The revenue and health expenditure data for this analysis
is obtained from the worksheets and reports prepared by the Australian Health Insurance Commission. The
project cost data is obtained from Bank sources. All values are converted to 1999 prices and US$, using
el=$1.1 and third-quarter PPI index for inflation.
Present Value of Flows
(all figures in US$, 1999 prices)
Benefits
Savings in drugs and hotel costs due to reduction in hospital stays, Cash flows net of recurrent costs: US$46.72
from 8.6 in 1999 to 6.1 in 2005, a 5% annual decrease. 20% of this million till 2010 (discount rate: 10%)
reduction attributable to information systems, starting from 2002;
increases to 25% by 2006 and 30% by 2008.
Costs
Investment costs, plus recurrent costs. Recurrent costs stabilize by Investment: US$21.07 million
2005, growing at a constant rate of 5% thereafter. Straight line (discount rate: 10%)
depreciation assumed for varying years for equipment and
machinery only; no salvage costs assumed.
Net Present Value                                         US$ 25.652 million
Internal Rate of Return                                   66%
Sensitivity Analysis
The key assumption in the analysis presented above is that hospital stays will decrease by 5%, from 8.6
days in 1999 to 6.1 in 2005. However, this may be a bit ambitious, considering that Slovenia already has
one of the lowest duration of hospital stays in that region. It is thus useful to consider the viability of the
- 53 -



information systems project at different levels of hospital stays.
The following table presents the results of the cost-recovery analysis for different levels of hospitals stays
(discount rate 10%):
Scenario   Percentage Reduction in    ALOS in    ALOS by    NPV (US$,              IRR
ALOS                1999         2005       1991 prices)
1                 5                  8.6          6.1         25.65 m          66%
2                 4                  8.6          6.6         14.82 m          49%
3                 3                  8.6          7.1         7.22 m           34%
4                 2.5                 8.6         7.4          0.87m           24%
Another key assumption made is that 20% of the reduction in hospital stays is attributable to information
systems. Given that the causal links between information systems and cost-reduction are not well
established, the figure of 20% may be a rather generous portrayal of reality. It is thus useful to compute the
threshold value of the contribution of information technology to savings in health expenditures at which the
project investment becomes viable.
Analysis of the cost-recovery potential of the proposed investment reveals that the net present value of the
project will be greater than zero so long as at least 11.5% reduction in health expenditures is attributable to
health information systems.
Conclusion
The proposed investment in the health information systems in Slovenia is justified even under very
conservative assumptions of potential benefits, despite rising demand due to aging population and generally
rising expectations.
Several caveats are in order. First, hospital stays may be reduced for a variety of 'negative' reasons that
may adversely impact on quality and access, and to that extent the reduction in ALOS is not a benefit of the
project. Second, information systems, like all technology, are only as good as they are utilized to be. Casual
implementation and usage may even make the 11.5% figure (of benefits attributable to improvements in
health information systems) quite ambitious. Finally, information technology is especially vulnerable to
obsolescence, and even the ten-year horizon used in the analysis above may be excessive.
- 54 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
December
IMPLEMENTATION PER10OD
Year  I   Year 2       Year 3     Year 4      Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             1.7         3.6        3.6         2.9         0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs               0.1        0.2         0.5         0.6        0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs             1.8        3.8         4.1        3.5         0.0        0.0        0.0
Front-end fee      0.1        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Financing                 1.9        3.8         4.1        3.5         0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                     0.8        2.2         2.8         2.5        1.2        0.0        0.0
Government                   0.2        0.7         1.1         1.2        0.6        0.0        0.0
Central                                                                           0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                       0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing        1.0        2.9         3.9        3.7         1.8        0.0        0.0
i                   ~~~~O PESkATtW NAL PERIOD
Year I     Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  1 Year 5          Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.6       0.6         0.6
Total Project Costs            0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.6        0.6         0.6
Front-end fee     0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Financing                0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.6        0.6         0.6
Financing
IBRDtlDA                    0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                  0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.6       0.6         0.6
Central                 0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial               0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.6        0.6         0.6
Main assunptions:
Operational costs as defined for this table include staffing prernise, office and facilities related expenditures as
- 55 -



well as telecom service charges associated with the National Health Information Clearinghouse (NHIC). The
forecast represents a best estimate of the incremental resources required after taking into account the~
re-deployment of existing institutional resources (IT staff, facilities, information technology) from MOH,
PHIS and HIIS. These forecast data cover only the timeframe after the implementation of the first phase of the
APL (2000-2003).
- 56 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting services, technical assistance and training will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency (issued in January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contracts will
be used. Goods and technical assistance to be financed by the Implementing Agency will be procured in
accordance with the public procurement regulations.
For any contract to be eligible for financing from the loan, the procurement shall be done in accordance
with the procedures set out in the loan agreement. These procedures include criteria for packaging the
contracts, the various methods of procurement that may be used, the thresholds within which those methods
apply, and arrangements for prior and subsequent review of procurement documentation and decisions.
The borrower shall conduct all procurement actions necessary to implement the project. The Bank shall
supervise to ensure that procurement of the goods and works is carried out in accordance with the agreed
procedures.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The procurement methods and the categories of goods and works to which they apply are specified in the
Loan Agreement. For the procurement of Goods and Services, the following procurement methods shall be
used: International Competitive Bidding (ICB); International Shopping (IS); National Shopping and Direct
Contracting (Sole Source selection).
ICB
For goods contracts estimated to cost US$0.2 million or more, ICB procedures, as described below, will be
used:
(a) Adequate Notification
All goods and services to be procured through ICB and the list of expected consulting assignments shall be
internationally advertised by placing a General Procurement Notice (GPN) in the United Nations
publication "Development Business" in the month of November 1999. Interested eligible suppliers and
consultants shall be requested to send their expressions of interest to the Project Management and
Professional Support Unit in Ljubljana. Invitations to bid and expressions of interest shall be advertised as
Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) in at least one newspaper of national circulation (and in the official
gazette). The SPN shall be advertised in the Development Business and also be transmitted to those who
have responded to the GPN.
(b) Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods will be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
US$1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(c) Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
- 57 -



In accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines a margin of preference
shall be provided in the evaluation of bids for goods manufactured in the country of the Borrower, as-
decided by the Implementing Agency.
(d) Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
For this project the Standard Bidding Document for the Supply and Installation of Informnation Systems,
and the Standard Bidding Documrents for Goods will be used. The Implementing Agency will hire the
services of a technical expert to customize the SBD for Information Systems to ensure a sound platform for
the procurement of the systems information activities under the project. For this package there will be no
prequalification and a two-stage bidding procedure will be used for the procurement of Information
Systems under International Competitive Bidding.
Intemational Shopping (IS)
IS will be used for procuring goods estimated to cost between US$0.05 million and US$0.2 million. IS
shall solicit quotations from at least three Suppliers in two different countries. The list of firmns will be
prepared by giving first consideration to those who have expressed interest in response to the GPN. Under
International and National shopping procedures, request for quotations may be sent and quotations obtained
by fax/telex. ECA template for Intemational Shopping shall be used.
National Shopping (NS)
NS is a method based on comparing at least three quotations for off-the-shelf goods available in Slovenia.
It is intended for contracts estimated to cost US$0.05 million and below. Preparation of the list of firms to
be invited will follow the same principle as in the case of IS with the exception that all firms could be
nationals of Slovenia.
Direct Contracting (DC!
Direct contracting will be used for proprietary items, for reasons of compatibility and standardization,
under circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines. Direct contracting will
permit to accommodate changes in the incumbent information systems at the six pilot sites. These changes
are necessary to allow those existing systems to work with the new clearinghouse technologies to be
implemented at each site. This work entails modification of the various incumbent software which only the
original system suppliers can perform. All direct contracting packages are identified in the procurement
plan and have the prior approval of the Bank. Any direct contracting during project implementation will
need the Bank's prior no objection.
Consulting Services
* Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) shall be used for most of the cases. QCBS uses a competitive
process among short-listed firms that takes into account the quality of the proposal and the cost of the
services in the selection of the successful firm. The relative weight to be given to the quality and cost will
be determined for each case depending on the nature of the assignment. QCBS will be used to procure
International Technical Assistance for Institutional Development of NHICH, specifically for Institution
building and Implementation Support. QCBS will also be used to select the project management firm. The
total amount under this category will not exceed US$3.0 million. Expressions of Interest shall be advertised
in the Development Business and also transmitted to those who have responded to the GPN.
* Quality-Based Selection, or QBS, with selection on basis of only technical proposals, will be used to select
the project manager, the health specialist and the health informatics specialist of the PM-PS Unit. The total
amount under this category will not exceed $1.1 million.
- 58 -



* Selection of Individual Consultants. Individual consultants will be hired to provide technical assistance to
the thematic Working Groups, the PM-PS Unit and the National Health Information Clearinghouse (to be
established). Terms of reference for the various assignments as well as their corresponding estimates are
under preparation. Over half of the contracts will be subject to prior review. The total amount under this
category will not exceed $0.9 million. The average value of each contract will be US$0.02 million.
Expressions of Interest shall be advertised in the Development Business and also transmitted to those who
have responded to the GPN.
* Service Delivery Contractors. This method will be used to hire a large number of individuals at the
national level to provide professional services in health policy and information standards formulation (i.e.,
the thematic working groups) Job Description: Working Groups are teams of experts, each working under
the guidance of the WG team leader.
Members of the expert pool have to work to achieve the following objectives:
*  Health policy enhancement objective: to develop and update health policies in selected areas (including
health finance, health care capacity planning and management, public health care network, diagnostic
and therapeutic protocols).
*  Medical knowledge engineering objective: to produce consensus-based standard terminologies and
semantic structures -- within the HISA standard framework -- based upon which a nationally integrated
health information infrastructure can be constructed, including the National Health Information
Clearinghouse.
*  Implementation objective: to establish the National Health Information Clearinghouse, the local
site-specific clearing houses, and integrate the incumbent information systems and site-specific
business processes to the national health information network.
Minimum Qualifications: Experienced professionals working on the Slovenian Health Sector in the health
profession, the area of health management, or health informatics. They must speak, write and read
Slovenian fluently, and have thorough knowledge of the local conditions. Selection procedures: Individuals
will be selected on the basis of the qualifications for the assignment. They may be selected on the basis of
references or through comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest in response to an
advertisement or approached directly by the PM-PS Unit. The PM-PS Unit will prepare an operational
manual identify'ing the nature of the experts required (qualification and experience), the selection process to
be used and the estimated fee to be applied in the hiring of those individuals for the Bank's no objection.
With the exception of one contract, subject to prior review under the working group for Financing Model
within the Health Policy Support Component, the rest of the contracts will be subject to post review. The
total amount under this category will not exceed US$1.6 million. The average value of each contract will
be US$0.015 million.
Single Source Selection
* Workshops, Training Courses and Study Tours will be carried-out based on programs approved by the
Bank every six months. These programs will include the nature of the activity, candidates selected and
their qualifications, venue and or institute selected, period of the activity and estimated cost. The method of
selection will be Single-Source and expenditures incurred under these activities will generally be claimed
under SOE. The total amount under this category will not exceed US$1.0 million.
- 59 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure ~~~                Procurement Metthod                           oti
g t)Exp6ndl, turi30C*Oprt2ipj;;0;\CB  ;;                                  N.B.F.        TotalCost
~~~~Other
1. Works                           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.15           0.15
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                           3.77           0.00           0.73          0.00           4.50
(2.88)        (0.00)         (0.55)        (0.00)         (3.43)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00           7.12          0.00           7.12
Consultancies                     (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.06)        (0.00)         (6.06)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00           0.00           0.01          0.00           0.01
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.01)        (0.00)         (0.01)
Recurrent Cost                     0.00           0.00          0.00           1.40           1.40
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                           3.77           0.00           7.86          1.55          13.18
(2.88)         (0.00)        (6.62)        (0.00)         (9.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
" Includes International Shopping (US$0.4 million), National Shopping (US$0.1 million), Direct
Contracting (US$0.3 million) and Consulting Services (US$7.1 million)
- 60 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consuitant                                 Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS      QBS       SFB       LCS        CQ      Other    N.B,F-  Total Cost'
Categor~y_____
A. Firms           2.71      1.03     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.74
(2.37)    (0.85)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.22)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.38      0.00      3.38
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.84)    (0.00)    (2.84)
Total  2.71      1.03      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.38      0.00      7.12
_  (2.37)    (0.85)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.84)    (0.00)    (6.06)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = This figure includes US$1.58 million to be selected under "Service Delivery
Contractors" and US$0.88 million to be selected using "Selection of Individual Consultants" (per
Section V of Consultants Guidelines), and US$0.92 under Single Source.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 61 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods and Services
All contracts for Goods estimated to cost US$0.2 million or more under ICB procedure will be
subject to prior review. Contracts not covered by prior review will be post reviewed on a selective basis.
Consulting Contracts
Consulting Services documentation for competitively selected contracts above US$0.1 million for
firms and above US$0.025 million for individuals will be subject to Bank's prior review. Contracts below
the above amounts will be subject to selective post review. Follow up assignments will be permissible to
the extent that the possibility of extension is foreseen in the initial TOR.
Post Review Ratio
The post review ratio is one in five contracts.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Thr~eshold             Procurement              P6rirRve
Expenditure Category      (ULS$ thousnds!              Method                (LJs$ mi6ions
1. Works                         n.a.                     n.a.                     n.a.
2. Goods                   US$200 and above               ICB               (all contacts US$0.2
50-200            Intemational Shopping    million and above, and all
below 50            National Shopping         direct contracts)
US$4.1 million
3. Services                      n.a.                 see Table Al         (all contracts with firms
US$0.1 mnillion and above;
all contracts with
individuals US$0.025
million and above, and all
sole source contracts)
US$4.3 million
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$ 8.4 mnillion
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The loan will be disbursed over a period of three and a half years. Disbursements will be made against
eligible project expenditures for goods, including technical services, and consultants' services. As shown in
Table C, goods will be financed at 75%. Consultants' services will be financed at 100%. Also the
front-end fee will be financed out of the proceeds of the loan.
Funds will be disbursed using traditional disbursement methods: Statement of Expenditure (SOE),
reimbursements, direct payments, etc. After the PM-PS Unit has gained experience with the financial
management system and reporting formats under PMR, and provided that a financial management
specialist has reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, the Project may move to PMR-based
disbursements. The PM-PS Unit will be responsible for preparing PMRs on a quarterly basis and furnish
to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. An action plan for the
establishment of a LACI-compliant system for project management reporting can be found Attachment E to
the Minutes of Negotiation (November 23, 1999)
NOTE: The following table is expressed in EUR million, in accordance with the Loan Agreement.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Ex.dituredCoateNr          1 Amount in US$million         Financin Percentage
0.00
Works                                      0.00                          0.0
Goods and Supply & Install                 2.80                          75.0
Services                                   5.00                         100.0
Recurrent Costs                            0.00                          0.0
Unallocated                                 1.11
Total Project Costs                        8.91
Front-end fee         0.09          _
Total                                      9.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All disbursements against contracts below the following thresholds will be made against Statement of
Expenditures:
US$0.2 million for goods
US$0.1 million for consulting firms contracts
US$0.025 million for individual consultants contracts
For these expenditures under SOE, detailed supporting documents evidencing payments to consultants and
suppliers will be kept at the PM-PS Unit. These documents would be made available for the required audits
as well as to the Bank supervision missions upon request.
All other expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be submitted on the basis of full documentation.
- 63 -



Special account:
To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish a Special Account
(SA) in the Central Bank of Slovenia, to be operated by the MOF under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make an Authorized Allocation of EUR 0.5 million.
Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly or when 50 percent of the initial
deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by
the necessary documentation, the SA bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement. The SA
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The "Authorized Allocation" for the SA is EUR 500,000 provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to EUTR 250,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from  the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall
equal or exceed the equivalent of EUR 1,000,000.
Procurement Plan - Republic of Slovenia
Health System Management Project
(expressed in US$ million)
1                            2          3         4           5             6 Estimated Dates for Contracts
Description                     Type      No. of   Estimated  Procurement Document Invitation Contract  Contract
contracts    cost      method   preparation   to bid   signing  completion
Goods
Operational Systems                                 G          1           3.77    ICB        Nov. 00   Feb. 01   Jul. 01   Aug. 01
Single-responsibility S&l of IS                                                               Nov. 01    Feb. 02   Jul. 02   Aug. 02
Nov. 02    Feb. 03   July-03   Aug. 03
Operational Systems                                 G          8            0.31     DC       Jan. 02      n.a.     n.a.    Mar. 02
Integration of Incumbent Systems                                                Jan. 03                        Mar. 03
Furnishing, equipment technologies                  G          4            0.32     IS        Jul. 00    Aug. 00  Sept. 00   Oct. 00
Jul. 01    Aug. 01   Sept. 01   Oct. 01
Jul. 02    Aug. 02  Sept. 02   Oct. 02
Jul. 03    Aug. 03  Sept. 03   Oct. 03
Office technologies                                 G          3            0.10     NS       Aug. 00   Sept. 00   Oct. 00   Nov. 00
Aug. 01   Sept. 01   Oct. 01   Nov. 01
Aug. 02   Sept. 02   Oct. 02   Nov. 02
Consulting Services
Mgt. Training, Inst. Blg.,                          CS         4           2.70    QCBS       Nov. 99   Jan. 00   Apr. 00   May. 00
Implementation Support, Project Mgt. Firm                                                     May. 00   July. 00   Nov. 00   Dec. 00
Mar. 01   May. 00   Aug. 01   Sept. 01
Nov. 01   Jan. 02   Apr. 02   May. 02
Project Manager, Health Specialist, Health Informatics  CS     3            1.03    QBS       Nov. 99    Jan.00   Apr. 00   May. 00
KM (working groups), National TA                    CS         80           1.58    SDC    Hiring will take place over a perod of four
International TA, PM-PS monitoring and evaluation   CS        40            0.88     IC     years from Jan. 00 to Dec. 03.
Workshops                                           CS         30           0.18     SS      Workshops, training and hudy tours will take
Training                                            CS      Several         0.34     SS      place over a period of four years from
Study Tours                                         CS      Several         0.39     SS     Jan. 00 to Dec. 03.
TOTAL*                                                                      11.6
* Note: Total does not include the front-end fee equivalent to $.09
Type: G-goods; CS-consulting services
Procurement Method: ICB-intemational competitive bidding; DC-direct contracting;
IS-international shopping; NS-national shopping; QCBS-quality and cost based selection;
QBS-quality based selection; SDC-service delivery contractors; IC-individual consultants; SS-single source
- 64 -



Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement
Brief Statement
The MOH does not have a procurement unit per se and procurement-related activities are shared among
staff of the investment department. MOH hires the services of technical experts for preparation of bidding
documents, engineering studies and supervision of contracts. MOH appoints the members of the "expert
commission" that undertakes evaluation and award of contracts and responds to bidders complains. With
respect to professional development, there is a need for more procurement training and workshops and
additional written guidance. No Country Procurement Assessment Study or Country Procurement Strategy
Paper has been carried-out in Slovenia.
Action Plan to Build Procurement Capacity at MOH
The Project Management and Professional Support (PM-PS) Unit will provide the services of a
procurement specialist (PS) familiar with the National Public Procurement Legislation and the World Bank
procurement procedures. During the first six months of the project, the PM-PS Unit shall be prepared to
reinforce the procurement role with the assistance of intemational consultants. These consultants will
assist the PM-PS Unit to develop appropriate bidding and consultant services documentation and will work
with the PS during bid evaluation. The PM-PS Unit will consist of a Project Manager, a Financial
Specialist, a Procurement Specialist, a Health Specialist, an a Health Informatics Specialist. In addition, a
management firm will provide the human and material resources necessary to carry out the day-to-day
operational work, including procurement monitoring and reporting activities. The PM-PS Unit will submit
quarterly progress reports on all contracts. An operation manual with detailed guidelines and procedures
governing the project activities including procurement shall be prepared by the Borrower and submitted to
the Bank for approval.
Training Information and Development on Procurement
Members of the project procurement group should receive training in the disciplines of planming, tendering,
evaluation, award and supervision of contracts in accordance with the World Bank's procurement
guidelines and relevant standard bidding documents. Procurement staff working on the project will attend
the Intemational Training Center of the ILO in Turin, Italy. The Center provides two courses relevant to
the project work, one is the Information Technology and the other one is the Equipment Procurement
Management.
Estimated date of Project Launch Procurement Workshop: June 2000
Estimated date of Publication of General Procurement Notice: November 16, 1999
Are bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations? No.
Is there procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business? Yes
Domestic Preference for Goods. Yes, if requested by MOH.
Domestic preference for Works. No. It is not applicable.
- 65 -



Advance procurement: No
Retroactive Financing: No
Co-financing: N/A
Yolanda Tayler, Procurement Specialist, OCSPR conducted the Capacity Assessment of the Implementing
Agency and worked with the project team during the preparation of the loan. Mr. Gyorgy Novotny from
the Field Office in Budapest, Hungary will provide procurement support during project implementation.
- 66 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                                               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  8
First Bank mission (identification)      03/31/99                   03/31/99
Appraisal mission departure              10/04/99                    10/04/99
Negotiations                             12/16/99                    11/22/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            06/30/2000                                            l
Prepared by:
Project Board:
Ministry of Health, Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia, University Medical Center of Ljubljana, Public
Health Institute of Slovenia, Ministry of Finance, Health Council of Slovenia.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant - TF 025299
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Armin Fidler                      PTL, Health Policy and Program Coordination
Craig Neal                        Information Systems and Task Leadership
Yolanda Tayler                    Procurement Specialist, Proc. Capacity Assessment, Loan Preparation
Loraine Hawkins                   Health Economist
Elizabeth Szollosi                Operations Analyst
Hiran Herat                       Financial Management Specialist, FM capacity assessment
Zoe Kolovou                       Lawyer
Jennifer Manghinang               Team Assistant
Gyorgy Novotny                    Procurement Specialist
- 67 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, 10/21/1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Environmnental Assessment
Social Assessment
Procurement Assessment
Financial Assessment
Proposal for PHRD Grant (12/19/97, 05/03/99)
PHRD Grant (TF 025299)
CAS, 05/16/1997 (Report # 16565-SLO)
Country Economic Memorandum: Economic Transformation & EU Accession (Volume I&II)
Minutes of the PCD Meeting
Minutes of the PAD Meeting
Comments from Peer Reviewers
Bank Health Sector Policy Recommendations - Summary (April 1997)
Aide Memoire, 05/1997
Slovenia Labor Market Issues, 03/30/1998
IMF: Slovenia - 1995 Article IV Consultation
IMF: Slovenia - 1996 Article IV Consultation
IMF: Slovenia's Health Care and Health Care Financing Systems, [ 995
Health Sector in Slovenia - Workshop Slides, 06/23/1997
C. Other
Majda Cernic Istenic: Privatisation of Health Care in Slovenia, 08/1996
Health Innovations International Ltd.: Issues and Options for Health Reform in the Republic of Slovenia,
04/1998
Adriatic: Voluntary Health Insurance Brochure, 02/1995
Slovenian Chamber of Pharmacy: State of Art of Pharmacy, 1996
WHO: Health Care Systems in Transition, 1996
WHO: Health Services Delivery Profile, 1996
WHO: Country Health Report - Slovenia, 0811999
WHO: Investment for Health in Slovenia, 09/1996
Bank of Slovenia: Monthly Profile, 01/1998
Advanced Management Program for Clinicians: Report to the Minister of Health in Slovenia, 08/15/1991
Institute of Macroeconomic Analysis and Development: EU Accession Strategy of the Republic of
Slovenia, 1997
Zdravstveno Varstvo, Zdravstveni Statisticni Letopis Slovenija, 1998
Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia: Annual Report, 1994 and 1996
Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia: Health Reforms in the Perspective of Accession to the EU,
01/08/1999
Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia: Strateski Razvojni Program Zdravstvenega Zavarovanja v
Republiki Sloveniji, 02/1998
- 68 -



Resources Management Consultants Ltd.: Slovenia Health Care Reference Material, 10/1995
Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, Ljubljana, 02/12/1992
Government of the Republic of Slovenia: National Health Care Program of the Republic of Slovenia,
09/1996
*Including electronic files
- 69 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions     disbursements
Project ID   FY   Borrower                  Purpose                           IBRD        IDA     Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
SI-PE-55304    1999 GOVERNMENT OF SLOVENIA   REAL ESTATE REGIST                15.00      0.00       0.00     14.60     0.00     0.00
Total:    15.00       0.00      0.00      14.60    0.00     0.00
Active       Closed
Projects     Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):     17.24        194.38        211.62
of which has been repaid:     0.00         84.04         84.04
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:     38.90        110.35        149.25
Amount sold:        0.00         0.00          0.00
of which repaid:      0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Undisbursed:      14.60          0.00         14.60
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
SLOVENIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval           Company                             Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic       Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:             0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                              Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:             0 00     0.00      0.00      0.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SLOVENIA: HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Eurooe &                                                   7127/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central      HiNh-
Slovenla      Asia   Income        Development dlamond
1998
Prioulation. mid-vear (rl/fiions)                        2 a        473       885                   Life expectancy
GNP Der canita fAt/as mrthod. USSf                     9.7f0      2 190     75.510
GNP fAta/s method. UMS hil/rd/ioe                        19 4     1 n39    77 5199
Avereot annual arowth, 1992-98
Potuation f%1                                           -0 1        0a1       .6
tabnrfnrcef%/                      -111       115        14      ~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GNP  -,Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate tlatast vear available. 199249til                                  capita            - s         enrAinent
Povorty f% of ooou/ation bolow national ooverfev ine)
Urban conulation (% of tots; oroufition)                  52         68        76
I if s *ynvorav rit hineh 1yearts7)                       75         59        77
Infant mortalitv foer 1.000 /ive birthsJ                   5         23         a
Child malnutrition f% of children under 5S                                                        Access to safe water
Ar.cest. to safe water t% of Doulation)                   98                   87
"llimrarv (14 of Doo0/0aion aso  15/5i                     0          4
Gross DriTnarV enrollment 11 of achool-a oo o f/taont    t3         100       103              --Slovenma
Male                                                    98        101       104                   High-income group
Foenate                                                 9St        99       1/13
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1956       1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GOP WfSSW b/ionsl                                                  la 19     7187
Gross domestic investment/GOP                                      23.4       24.0                      Trade
Snert,i of nnnros and rervirs /G.es P                              543        57 5
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                                         27 5       23 I
Gross natinnat savinos/GDP                                         23 7       24 1
Current aarount balanre/GDP                                0.         7        07       Domestic                      Invsten
Interesornavments/GOP                                                1 1       07                            ,        Investment
Tolaa debt/GOP                                                     7t 4       75i       Savings
Tot/ri debt strvcr.iextorts                                         9 7        3.9
Present valut of debt/GDP                                          19 7       24.6
Present valueo of debvexvorts                                      34 0       41.1
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997   199&-02
(averaeo annual crowth) 
(tOo                                            1 4      :1 t       36 8Slovenia
GNP Der ceorta                                  42       2 7        38           .-                  High-income group
Exonfrs oft coods and vervos             .     -2.3       2. S      9 f
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997       Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                              30
Aariculture                                                 -.4.5              4.6      34
Industrv                                                           36.5       38.9  s-
Manufacturina                                                     26.4      29.2
Services                                                           58.9       56.5      o                                        1
Private cnn.,,m.fti,n.                                             57.3       56.5     A:            9
General aovernment consumntion                    ..       ..      20.1       20.4                    GDI        *GDP
ImOorts of onods and services                     ..       ..      55.2       58.4
1976-86  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports 1%) i
(averaae annual orowth)
Aariculture                                       -       0.2        1.7       0.7    30
Industrv                                                  0.8       1.3        4.9       T
Manufacturino                                           3.0        1.4       4.6
Services                                          ..     3.8        3.5        4.7      o      9    ;. S3   94    95   96  ..
62 93   94   95   36   97
Privatp cnnqismntirn                                     3 7        p6         7 p        715
General covernment consumotion                    ..      2.3       2.2        5.6
Gross domestic investment                        ..       9.0        1.7       5.6    -30
ImnOrto nf nondc and services                             1 9        1 3       9 fi              _Exports    -Imports
Gross national oroduct                           ..       4.2        2.8       3.6
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates. Regional aggregate data exclude high-income economies.
This tahle was nrnodirer from the Oevelonrnmnt Fconrmics central dlatahbas
- The diamnndc shnw fnsjr kev indiratMrs in thp centrv (in heid) romnar*d with itc incnme-nrinr averane If data arep missinn. the diriamnd will
hb inromnltet
- 71-



Slovenia
PRtCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986        1996      1997       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                                300
Consumer prices                                     ..       ..        9.9        8.4    2..
Implicit GDP deflator                                         .       11.5        9.7
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                         o
Current revenue                                     ..       ..       44.8      44.0               92    93    94    95    96    07
Current budget balance                             ..        ..        2.4        0.9               -GDP  deflator        CPl
Overall surplusideficit                            ..        ..        0.3       -1.1 
TRADE
1976     1986        1996      1997       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..        ..      8,310     8,372      10,0D0
Machinery and transport equipment                 ..       ..      2,773      2,815
Chemicats                                                            881       942       7.500
Manufactures                                      .         ..     4,092      4.0`19
Total imports (cif)                                 .         ..     9,421     9.358
Food                                              6. 876                       632
Fuel and energy                                   .         ..       755       780
Capital goods                                     .         ..     3,175      3,094         0
ExDort Drice index (1995=100)                                ..        102       105              91   92   93   94   95   9b   97
Imnort Drice index (1995=1001                                ..        103       105                 0 Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade N1995=100)                                    ..         99       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986        1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS milflons)l 
Exports of goods and services                       ..       ..    10,497    10,450       0
imports of goods and services                       ..       ..    10,674    10,631
Resource balance                                   ..         .       -178      -182       6
Net income                                                             155       131       4
Net current transfers                              ..        ..         61        88
Current account balance                            ..        ..         38        37
Financing items (net)                              ..        ..        548     1,251           91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Changes in net reserves                            ..        ..       -587    -1,287      -2                                          |
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millionsl              ..       ..      4.130     4.357
Conversion rate (DEC. localIUSSl                   ..         .      135.4      159.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986        1996      1997
(USS millionsl                                                                             Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                ..       ..      4,028      4,762
IBRD                                              ..       ..        155       140                          A 140
IDA                                              ..        ..          0         0     13                           0:418
Total debt service                                  .         .       ,054       424                                         122
IBRD                                              .        ..        38         29
IDA                                               .        ..          0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                         l
Official grants                                  ..        ..          0         0
Official creditors                               ..        ..        -30         -2
Private creditors                                ..        ..       417       -106
Foreign direct investment                         ..       ..       185        321
Portfolio equity                                 ..        ..       360         50                        F: 3,489
World Bank program
Commitments                                      ..        ..        24          0      A - lBRD                        E - Bilsteral
Disbursements                                    ..        ..          6        17      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                             ..        ..        25         20      r IMF                           t _
Net flows                                         ..       ..       -19         -2
Interest payments                                                     11        10
Net transfers                                    ..        ..        -30       -12
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                                 7/27/99
- 72 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Draft Policy Note
1.     After Slovenia's independence in 1991, the health care system has undergone significant changes. The
objectives for such reform course were triggered by economic and organizational concerns rather than medical
needs. The performance of the Slovenian healthcare system as measured in health status and performance
indicators is just below EU average Health in Slovenia. Ministry of Health; Institute of Public Health of the
Republic of Slovenia, 1999. In addition, access to the health system is guaranteed for the entire population. Access
to health establishment is guaranteed to be within a 20km radius, waiting time, according to a 1998 user survey is
less than an hour in 56% of the respondents. and health services enjoy a high user satisfaction rate In a 1998 user
survey, 77.8% of respondents claimed to be satisfied or extremely satisfied with services. The reform agenda
included the adoption of new health legislation in 1992 that introduced the following principal changes:
2.     Health finance and insurance reform: Establishment of the Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia (HIIS),
financed from payroll tax (contributions from both employer and employee, currently 13.2%) that enters contracts
with the provider network. The formulation of a benefit package allowed the operation of a private insurance
market, offering insurance packages for supplementary services to the consumer.  Private, out of pocket
expenditures, either for voluntary insurance or fee for service costs is on the rise, and expected to reach 15% of
total health expenditures by 2000.
3.     Primary care reform and private practice: The new system departed from the concept of assigned health
centers and moved to an arrangement where patients choose a personal physician (GP-family doctor, pediatrician).
The legislation allows the establishment of private practice, for doctors, pharmacists, and dentists. These
professionals operate either on a direct fee-for-service basis or under contractual arrangements with the Health
Insurance Institute (HIIS). A small number of private health care institutions entered the fee-for-service market.
The Slovenian Medical Chamber, newly established in 1992, represents the interests of the profession and assumed
important functions such as doctors registration and licensing, professional continuing education, code of ethics
surveillance, management of clinical residency programn, etc.
4.     Imminent Challenges for the Slovenian Health Sector: In addition to the above mentioned initiatives,
implemented since 1992, the government is aware that a carefully sequenced reform agenda must be continued in
order to improve sector performance, guaranteeing long-term fiscal sustainability at the same time. The
government is particularly concerned about imminent outside pressures that must be addressed without delay:
Ever rising consumer expectations, aggressive innovation in health care technology and continued cost pressures
on wages and health care consumables, in particular pharmaceuticals will drive health care expenditures upward.
On the demand side, it has become evident that the demographic and epidemiological profile of Slovenia will be
characterized over the next decade by negative population growth and an aging population with special needs
(Total fertility rate of 1.34 (1998) is far below replacement level), a largely completed epidemiological transition
characterized by high prevalence of chronic illness, as well as increasing social, occupational and environmental
health concerns (Slovenia suffers from one of the world's highest suicide rates, high rates of mortality from injury
and poisoning and higher than EU averages of chronic diseases. - WHO Country Report Slovenia, 08/99). Such
cost pressures stay in sharp conflict with the fiscal need to stabilize publicly financed health care expenditures at
6.5-7% of GDP (Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the Accession to the European Union: 3.8.3.2, p. 148). A
further increase in payroll tax (Currently at 6.6% paid by the employer and 6.6% paid by the employee) would
have negative implications for the labor market and is not an option at this time (HFA, p. 44, 7.1). Equally, a
major shift towards private, out-of-pocket expenses would give rise to equity concerns, by limiting access to the
system by the poor.
5.     Policy reform agenda: The government understands that the preservation of health sector achievements
- 73 -



and EU convergence in the context of continued fiscal balance, cost containment and stable contribution rates is
only attainable if a number of efficiency measures are addressed in the service network without further delay. The.
government in consensus with the National Health Council (NHC) and all sector stakeholders has established a
long-term policy agenda that must be pursued over the next decade (Recommendation EURO report - Investment
for Health in Slovenia, accepted by Parliament in 1996). It is expected that the proposed Health Sector
Management Project (HSMP) will play a major role in the definition, refinement and implementation this reform
agenda. The proposed content and priorities in this agenda has been outlined and described in detail in a number
of official documents. The focus of this reform agenda encompasses four principal areas: (a) Hospital Sector; (b)
Primary Health Care and Prevention; (c) Health Care Finance and Insurance; and (d) Governance. Strategy of the
Republic of Slovenia for Accession to the European Union; WHO Country Health Report Slovenia; Government
of Slovenia: National Health Care Program. The project will support four inter-institutional policy working
groups for the preparation of sequenced technical proposals in those areas, with the participation of all
stakeholders and national and foreign experts. The work on this policy agenda and its cross-linkages with the
project's investments will be continuously evaluated by the relevant institutions, the National Health Council and
parliamentary commissions.
(a) Hospital sector: While both the ratio of hospital beds per population (5.8/1000) and the average
length of stay (ALOS) approaches EU average, Slovenia faces the same challenge that most other
European hospital networks.  Changing epidemiological and demographic needs, and adoption of
evidence-based medicine must be reflected in the hospital network to improve quality and contain costs.
The working group would focus on the following initiatives (i) Improved flexibility, quality and financial
performance of the hospital network through a revised legal framework and refined, productivity-based
reimbursement system (HFA Annex IV, p. 64); (ii) improved managerial capacity and accountability
through appropriate managerial incentives and training (HFA Annex IV, p. 63; HFA Annex II, p.59); (iii)
review of appropriate private sector involvement in the hospital sector (outsourcing, private wards,
admission privileges) to supplement revenues and establish profit centers (HFA Annex II, p.56); (iv)
sector-wide review of bed capacity (acute - chronic, specialty), long-term care strategy (chronic care,
hospice, home), technology assessment (HFA Annex III, p.62; HFA Annex II, p.58).
(b) Primary Care sector: While the primary care standards of Slovenija provide a high degree of
accessibility to the population, a number of imbalances, such as low productivity, high referral rates, high
prescription costs and difficulties in asserting the role of primary care in a changed demographic and
epidemiological pattern, could threaten the long-term viability of this sector. The integration of the
primary care levels into the project will enable the permit to improve sector performance and quality
measurement. The project supported working group will initiate work on the following areas: (i) improve
productivity and gate-keeping function to decrease referral rates to secondary level (HFA p. 24, 3.3.6); (ii)
rationalize pharmaceutical expenditures by reviewing prescription practices; (iii) review long-term
strategy towards transition to family physician and free practice under contract with the Health Insurance
Institute; (iv) introduce a primary care based health promotion and primary prevention strategy (Strategy
of the Republic of Slovenia for the Accession to the European Union: 3.8.3.2/b, p. 148).
(c) Health Care Finance and Insurance: Slovenia's approach to introduce compulsory health insurance
in 1992 has been largely successful in containing costs through capped prospective funding. While it is
projected that the revenues of the Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia (HITS) will continue to grow in
the next years, the government recognizes that overall expenditures are already high and growing. The
system is increasingly facing many of the above described cost-pressures - , without additional measures it
will not be likely to sustainably contain public health care expenditures below 8% of GDP. The following
topics will be addressed by the working group: (i) define benefit package (including cash benefits) to
better delineate public and private responsibility for insurance (Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the
Accession to the European Union: 3.8.3.2/d, p. 148; HFA, p.44, 7.1); (ii) accelerate the work to introduce
competition in the voluntary (supplementary) insurance business (Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for
the Accession to the European Union: 3.8.3.2/e, p. 148; HFA, p.48, 7.7.2); (iii) analyze the impact of
co-payments - not necessarily as a source for revenue generation but rather demand modulation (HFA
- 74 -



Annex IV, p. 63); (iv) define the HIIS purchasing function, both from public and private providers at all
service levels, guided by health priorities as well as cost-effective and quality interventions (HFA Annex
V, p.64 HFA, p.51, 7.10).
(d) Governance: The Ministry of Health has prepared a number of strategic papers, among them the
National Health Care Program that is waiting for parliamentary approval. The transition of the Ministry
(as outlined in the 1992 legislation) towards sector leadership, prioritization, strategy development and
legal agenda, evaluation and monitoring is incomplete. The proposed project would strengthen this
development through providing the information tools for planning and decision-making (HFA, p 13, 3.2.5
). In particular, the role of the Public Health Institute will be accentuated, as it will have access (through
the proposed Information Clearinghouse to timely epidemiological, administrative and financial data for
decision-making.  The project supported working group will focus on: (i) specify the particular
governance function of the sector stakeholders, identify bottlenecks and superimposition of responsibilities
(HFA, Annex II, p. 57); (ii) strengthen the health prioritization process, based on epidemiological and
biostatistical data supplied by the PHI (HFA, p 9, 3.2.1 HFA, p. 50, 7.9 HFA, p. 52, 8); (iii) monitoring
and reviewing sector performance at all service levels in accomplishing such sector goals (HFA Annex III,
p. 62); (iv) review pharmaceutical and medical technology policy and prepare and agenda for
incorporating international and EU best practice (HFA Annex II, p. 58).
6.     The proposed Health Sector Management Project (HSMP) will finance investments in information
technology in the Slovenian health care sector. This tool will enable decision-makers and policy makers at all
levels in participating institutions to improve management along the principles of cost-effectiveness and quality.
At the same time, however, the country must address the challenges of EU accession as well as the need to
maintain access, equity and quality of the healthcare system, all within a sustainable budgetary framework. The
proposed project (HFA Annex V, p.65) has the potential to supply the necessary information requirements,
transparency and many of the control levers necessary for the continued health reform process in Slovenia.
- 75 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26882
13230'                         14'001                            14'30'                           15:00'                           IT                               16SO'                             16O30                             1.'00'
J   ',                                                                                                             .............. 'SK     1                                       f   A ^  *'M'kS'. @N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S h  dns,oIo.
noply nnh pao
' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  U 5   T  R  I A r- -    >-,ff         . 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T .Kr-  =,V 
~~~~T o           (lo c hb  '   -   '   -r   b Cu iv.9    
4630' ,
>h. P            *                               To Klooeosk                                  ,'  4. K'
hFC>-T fo  P n '  L A '- lu,d,v    /gvs~
s/;1;1; siq ;/@>lize  i       ,Iseo         \W  Zlirnko      JeoorsIoX                                                                                                                                   -            3t 0'\<1OV
2*~~~~~~~~~~Ti  N> ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     Krn                                                                                                                                   LO          E       I
-  /  cOO  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                               SECONDARY ROASS        ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-- RIVERS~ECNAR RAS  IVR
Liu  ana ,,,RAIL)ADS                                                                                                                     INTERN-ATIONAL BOUNDARIES        4"D'
46h000      SO)-
No_a Go,ico                                                                                                          K,g                                          IL 10             2,0       "I 13  19
0,,                                                                                                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LOMETERS
None Mesto                                                                                                         )LA "AWED6N  LOTTI
SEMPT I POLAND 1
Trieste 
C  R 0  A T I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OU    
/ ~~1pL  AUSTRIA; 645606 /    APRN 199



