CREDIT NUMBER 46 SYR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 24, 1963


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 46 SYR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 24, 1963


﻿Develpment ~Tubit Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated December 24, 1963, between SYRIAN
ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and IN-
TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association.
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Definition
SECTIoN 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said De-
velopment Credit Regulations No. 1 as so modified being
hereinafter called the Regulations) :
(a) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is to be
Paid and Proceeds of the Credit are to be
Withdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in the respective
currencies of the countries from which such goods are
acquired.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures in currency of the
Borrower or for goods produced in (including
services supplied from) the territories of the
Borrower, in such currency or currencies as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
select;


﻿4
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which the
cost of the goods financed out of such proceeds
has been paid or is payable.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from time
to time agree on any other currency in which with-
drawals shall be made."
(b) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03 as
follows:
"Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal with
Other Currency.
If withdrawal shall be made in any currency which the
Association shall have purchased with another cur-
rency for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion
of the Credit so withdrawn shall be deemed to have
been withdrawn from the Credit Account in such other
currency for the purposes of Section 3.03."
(c) Section 3.04 is renumbered as Section 3.05.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following term, wherever used in this Agreement or in the
Regulations, shall have the following meaning: the term
"Department of Highways and Bridges" means the de-
partment by that name within the Ministry of Communica-
tions and shall also include any successor department or
agency of the Borrower performing the present functions
of said Department of Highways and Bridges.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Agree-
ment set forth or referred to, a development credit in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight and one-
half million dollars ($8,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall


﻿5
credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of this Agreement and of the Regulations, to with-
draw from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall have been expended for the
reasonable foreign currency cost of goods required for
carrying out the Project;
(b) the equivalent of a percentage or percentages to be
established from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association of such amounts as shall
have been expended for the reasonable cost of goods re-
quired for carrying out the Project and not included in the
foregoing; and
(c) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required by the Borrower to meet payments under
each of the foregoing paragraphs;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made on
account of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SECTIoN 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 17) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. The
Borrower shall also pay to the Association a service charge
at the same rate on the principal amount of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 4.02 of the Regulations and outstanding from time
to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.


﻿6
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1,
1973 and ending June 1, 2013, each installment to and in-
eluding the installment payable on June 1, 1983 to be one-
half of one per cent of such principal amount, and each in-
stallment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent of such
principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement. The specific goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the methods
and procedures for procurement of such goods shall be
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, subject to modification by further agreement
between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in the carry-
ing out of the Project and/or the maintenance of its high-
way system and shall not sell or otherwise dispose of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, other than such
goods as shall have become worn-out or obsolete.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
&HOTIOw 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall
operate and utilize the machinery and facilities purchased
with the proceeds of the Credit in conformity with sound
engineering and financial practices.


﻿7
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed engineer-
ing consultants acceptable to, and upon terms and condi-
tions agreed between, the Borrower and the Association to
make the studies and to give the advice regarding con-
struction and maintenance described in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by con-
tractors satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association
employed under contracts satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association.
(d) The general design standards and the type of sur-
facing (including pavement) to be used for the Project
shall be as determined by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, subject to modification by furthier
agreement between them.
(e) Upon request from time to time by the Association,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Association the plans, specifications and work
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall request.
(f) The Borrower shall at all times make available,
promptly as they are needed, all sums which shall be re-
quired for the carrying out of the Project.
(g) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof
in the Project, to record the progress of the Project (includ-
ing the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions and financial condition of the agency or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof; shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods and any


﻿8
relevant records and documents; and shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project,
the goods and the operations, the administration and
financial condition of the agency or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any
part thereof.
SECTION 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall insure or
cause to be insured with responsible insurers goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit. Such insurance shall
cover such marine, transit amd other hazards incident to
purchase and importation of the goods into the territories
of the Borrower and delivery thereof to the site of the
Project, and shall be for such amounts, as shall be con-
sistent with sound commercial practices. Such insurance
shall be payable in the currency in which the cost of the
goods insured thereunder shall be payable or in dollars.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.


﻿9
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable oppor-
tunity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories and free from all restric-
tions imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in
effect in its territories.
SECTION 4.05. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the roads in
its highway system to be maintained at all times in accord-
ance with sound engineering standards. This obligation
includes, but is not limited to:
(a) the employment of such technical personnel as shall
be necessary;
(b) the adequate maintenance and repair of all highway
maintenance machinery, including for those purposes the
establishment of an appropriate number of suitable field
workshops;
(c) the timely replacement of worn-out or obsolete high-
way maintenance equipment; and
(d) the taking of all such action as shall be necessary
to assure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles
using the national highway systems shall be kept within
limits substantially in accordance with standards agreed
upon at the United Nations Conference on Roads and Motor
Transport held at Geneva, Switzerland in 1949 previously
adopted by the Borrower.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or (ii)
if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of
the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower, then at any subsequent
time the Association, at its option, may declare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal
shall become due and payable immediately, anything in
this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b) of the Regulations:
namely, any action necessary to enable the Borrower to
employ the engineering consultants referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement shall have been taken, and such
consultants shall have been employed.
SECTION 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association: namely, that all action neces-
sary to enable the Borrower to employ the engineering
consultants referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment has been taken.
SECTION 6.03. A date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
8.04 of the Regulations.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1968, or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Department of Highways and Bridges
Ministry of Communications
Damascus
Syria
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Highways
Damascus
Syria
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washingion, D. C.
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of Communications of the
Borrower is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03
of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WIEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ WALM MAGED
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
By // J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project consists of :
A. The improvement of the existing Damascus-Aleppo road
(about 350 km) and the Aleppo-Rakka road (about 190
ki), which is expected to take about 31/2 years.
B. The establishment and implementation, with the assist-
ance of consultants, of a program to reorganize and
strengthen the Department of highways and Bridges
with special emphasis on maintenance operations and
standards. The program would also include procure-
ment of maintenance equipment and installation of
proper repair facilities.
C. An over-all road survey of Syria and the final survey
and design for construction or reconstruction of about
600 km of roads to be selected on the basis of the above
survey and of the findings with respect to the relative
economic priorities of roads to be included. This work
will be undertaken with the assistance of consultants.


