RESTRICTED
ClR      l                  Report No. TO-695a
OBENED8O EP
\ /-W6ENER   F!ILES   J
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE EXPANSION PROGRAM
OF THE
TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE DEPARTMENT OF PA-KISTAN (T&T)
January 21, 1969
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
US$1.00    - PRs 4.762             All,,years mentioned in this report are
US$0.21       PRs 1                fiscal years (FY).  FY 1968 is the
US$210,000    PRs 1,000,000        period July 1, 1967-June 30, 1968.
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE REPORT
CCITT    -  Comite Consultatif International Telegraphique et Telephonique
CENTO    -  Central Treaty Organization (Turkey, Iran, Pakistan)
COESAT   - Communications Satellite Corporation
CTB      - Commonwealth Telecommunications Board
EliD     -  (Edelmetall Motor Drehwahler) Siemens Switching System
EPIC     - Engineering Planning and Installation Control
ETR      - Eastern Telecommunications Region
HF       - High Frequency
.INTELSAT -  International Telecommunications Satellite Consortium
KFW      - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KTR      - Karachi Telecommunications Region
NTB      - Nachrichtentechnisches Beratungsburo
NTR      - Northern Telecommunications Region
PBX      - Private Branch Exchange
PCO      - Public Call Office
PWR      - Pakistan Western Railway
R&R      - Renewals and Reserves
STD      - Subscriber Trunk Dialing (Long-distance and interurban)
STR      - Southern Telecommunications Region
TIP      - Telephone Industries of Pakistan
T&T      -  .e'egraph and Telephone Department of Pakistan
VHF      - Very High Frequency
WAPDA    - Water and Power Development Authority
VWPIDC   - West Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE EXPANSION PROGRAM
OF THE
TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE DEPARTiMENT OF PAKISTAN (T&T)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                          i-ii
I.        INTRODUCTION                                            1
II.       THE BENEFICIARY - T&T DEPARTMENT OF PAKISTAN            2
Organization and Management                           3
Staff Training and Technical Assistance
III.      FINANCIAL ASPECTS                                       6
Accounting System                                     6
Audit                                                 7
Present Financial Position                            7
Tariffs                                               8
Past Financial Performance                            9
IV.       EXISTING FACILITIES                                    10
Local Telephones                                     10
Long Distance System                                 10
International Facilities                             11
Vi        THE PROGRAM                                            11
VI.       THE PROJECT FOR BANK FINANCING                         13
The Project                                          13
Procurement and Disbursement                         15
VII.      JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT                           15
VIII.     FUTURE FINANCES                                        18
Financing Plan                                       18
Future Financial Position and Operating Results      19
Rate Covenant                                        20
IX.       CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                        20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission to Pakistan which was made in June/July 1968
and was composed of Messrs. M.V. Scoffier, C.R. Dickenson,
H.B. Meier, and C.R. Willoughby of the Bank.



LIST OF A1\TX1\ES
1. Basic Data as of March 1968 and for the 1968-1972 Development Progran
2. List of Principal Functions Exercised by T&T and Significant Data
on its Responsibilities and Activities
3. Relations with Government
4. Organization Chart - Pakistan Telegraph and Telephone Department
5.  Agreed   Terms of Reference for ithnagement Consultants and Timetable
for Reorganization
6. Training Requirements and Facilities
7. Pro Forma Balance Sheet 1964/65-1974/75
- lIotes and Assumptions on the Balance Sheet (Pages 2-5)
8.  Pro r'orna Profit and Loss Statemnent 1964/65-1974/75
- Notes and Assumptions on the Profit and Loss Statement (Pages 2,3)
- Rate of Return Covenant Applied for the Years 196h-1975 (Page 4)
9.  Pro Forma Sources and Applications of Funds 1964/65-1974/75
10. Revenue Forecast
11. Long-Term Foreign Exchange Loans
12. Representative Tariffs
13. Development Program 1965-1972
1h.  Third Five Year Development Plan and Integrated Program Breakdown
of Expenditures
15.  Expansion Program under the Integrated Plan 1968-1972
- Outline of Items Included in the Program (Pages 1-7)
- Open Wire Lines Proposed for IDA financing (Table 1)
- Cost Analysis - Additional HF Radio Telephone Links and VHF
Scatter System via Nepal as against Satellite
*Circuits (Table 2)
- Telephone Growth, Demand and Provisions 19h8-1972 (Chart 1)
16. Foreign E:change Requirements 1968-1972 Program and Use of IDA Credit
17.  Comparisons of Telecomrnaiications Development in some Rapidly Grolw-
ing Asian Count-ies
18. Economic Aspects 1/
NAPS:  1.  Long-Distance Telephone Network - West Pakistan
2.    "      "        "        "    - East Pakistan
1/ A Supplement covering the economic aspects in greater detail is con-
tained in a separate volume.



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF TlIE EXPANSION PROGRAM
OF THE TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE DEPART'IENT OF PAKISTAN (T&T)
SUITf1iARY
i.        The Government of Pakistan has asked the Association for a credit
to finance part of the foreign exchange cost of a program to be undertaken
during the period July 1968 to June 1972. The proposed credit would be
for US$16 million (PRs 76 million), and would cover the foreign exchange
component of specific construction works included in the program, and cost-
ing in total PRs 199 million (US$42 million).   The total cost of the re-
maining portion of the program is estimated at IRs 711 million (US$149 mil-
lion). This would be the first Bank or IDA operation in telecommunica-
tions in Pakistan.
ii.       The proposed Borrowier is the Government of Pakistan which will
make the funds available to the Pakistan Telegraph and Telephone Department
(T&T), which forms part of the Ministry of Communica-tions. T&T exercises
the telecommunications monopoly in East and West Pakistan and provides the
public telephone, telegraph and telex facilities. It also provides special-
ized services for certain government departments and agencies. It has taken
a major part in the establishment and subsequent operation of the Telephone
Industries of Palkistan (TIP), a factory producing telephone equipment.
iii.      The proposed program covers the provision of the most urgently
needed facilities for etuension and improvement (f domestic and interna-
tional telecommunicat'cns services, but meets the outstanding demand only
in part. The program involves a very high rate of growith in provision of
subscribers' facilities of over 1916 per annum, and is csnsidered to be the
largest that can reason bly be undertaken within the l1iitations of available
resources for manufacture, installation, and subrclquent operation of the
network.  The program is technically sound and   , 'anc >. y v_:ale.  Estimated
costs are reasonable, although certain savings are an-Lcipated under inter-
national tendering procedures. Procurement arrangements are satisfactory
and T&T is capable of executing the program.
iv.       From the economic point of view, rapid expansion of telecommunica-
tions services is a critical need in Pakistan. Business and administration
have been seriously hampered by the lag in the provision of service in re-
cent years. The program which the IDA Credit would help to support is well-
balanced. Specific analysis of the elements on which most of the Credit
would be spent - exp.ansion of local telephone service in the multi-exchange
areas and provision of a direct dialing system among the principal towns of
East Pakistan - indicates economic rates of return on the total investments
required of the order of 75%.
v.        The principal items included in the program are:
(a) the addition of 175,000 to the present 172,000
telephones;



- ii -
(b) provision of subscriber long-distance dialing
facilities to the main automatic exchanges;
(c) the expansion of the trunk network and provision
of adequate protection against breakdown for the
main line routes in East and West Pakistan, using
modern microwave and coaxial cable techniques, and
the extension of public call office (PCO) facili-
ties to 550 towns and villages in rural areas;
(d) provision of satellite communication facilities
to improve communications between the two wings of
Pakistan and on certain of the main international
routes;
(e) improvement of existing High Frequency (HF) radio
facilities;
(f) extension and improvement of the telegraph and
te'ex networks;
(g) expansion of training facilities;
(h)  employment of consultants to recommend, and assist
in, the reorganization of T&T.
The IDA project is included in items (a), (c), (e), and (h) above.
vi.       The standard of operation of the existing facilities in Pakistan
is comparable with other developing countries but considerable improve-
ment is possible. The present organization has developed piecemeal within
the civil service structure, and in consequence there is division of
responsibilities with other government departments and a lack of business
orientation in the T&T Department. The financial and other records do
not provide all the information necessary for efficient management of a
utility whose essential function is to serve the economy as a whole.
The financial arrangement with TIP is not clear-cut or fully commercial.
An assurance from Government has been obtained during the negotiations
that they will employ consultants to advise on the organizational changes
necessary and will arrange for the introduction of such changes in ac-
cordance vith an agreed timetable.
vii.      T&T's overall financial results are very satisfactory.   It is
estimated that of the total capital requirements for construction work
up to 1972, about 59% would be contributed by T&T from internally generated
funds, 33% provided from bilateral loans and credits and 8% from the
proposed credit.
viii.     The project which covers work to be carried out during the
fiscal years 1969-1972 is suitable for an IDA credit of US$16 million
(PRs76 million) to the Pakistan Government to be made available to the
T&T Department for a term of 24 years including a grace period of 4 years
at a 6% interest rate.



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE EXPANSION PROGRAM
OF THE
TELEGRAPH ANTD TELEPHONE DEPARTNlENT OF PAKISTAN (T&T)
I. INTRODUCTION'
1.01      Pakistan consists of two separate provinces.   West Pakistan has
an area of 312,000 square miles and a population of 54 million which is
heavily concentrated in the main cities and the valley of the Indus and
its tributaries. East Pakistan has an area of 55,000 square miles and a
population of 64 million, widely distributed over the fertile delta area
formed by the Brahmaputra, Ganges, and Megna- East and West Pakistan are
separated by 1,100 miles of Indian territory, and Karachi, the major city
and port is some 600 to 1,000 miles from the other main centers of popula-
tion in Wlest Pakistan around Lahore, Rawalpindi, Islamabad, and Peshawiar.
1.02      The population is growing at a rate of 2.6% per annum.   Manufac-
turing industry is growing rapidly but still accounts for only about 12% of
the national income. About 45% of the national income is provided by agri-
culture which employs some 80% of the labor force but a considerable part of
which is at subsistence level.
1.03      These geographical and demographical factors have created special
problems in the provision and operation of telecommunications facilities
and it is not surprising that the present average telephone density is 0.14
as against 5.9 telephones per hundred persons for the world as a whole, and
in fact well below that for most other countries at a similar stage in
their development. Available resources for telecommunications development
have probably wisely been devoted to providing facilities in and between
the urban areas which have offered adequate financial and economic returns
on investment, and also provided for the needs of Government. In conse-
quence, and despite the fact that the economy is largely based on agricul-
tural production, 64% of the present telephones are located in six of the
main cities. There is also an imbalance in the services provided in the
two wings,  West    Pakistan having 78% of the total number of telephones
for a population of 46% of the total. There will be a continuing emphasis
on urban development and the development of long-distance facilities, but
with the extension of commercial agriculture, the provision of telecommuni-
cations in rural areas must assume greater significance in facilitating ef-
ficient production and distribution, besides meeting requirements for pu-
blic administration and the maintenance of law and order.
1.04      Pakistan has at various times during the period 1950 to 1962
asked for Bank loans and IDA credits for telecommunication expansion. No
satisfactory basis for financing could be found without a study of long-
term development requirements. Initiative was therefore taken by the Bank
in this matter and UNDP assistance was approved in January 1964, the Bank
being appointed executing agency. The German firm of Nachrichtentechnisches
Beratungsburo (NTB) was appointed as consultant on Mgay 7, 1965. On the



-2-
basis of advance reports produced by 'TB and other available informaticn,
the nroject was an-oraised in June 1968 in accordance w7ith the request
for an IDA Credit made by Palkistan in May 1967.
1.05      Pakistan's plans for telecommunications expansion are within the
framework of the Five Year Plans. The Third Five Year Plan, which was
originally prepared in 1964/65, covers the period 1966-1970. In October
1966 the overall Plan was reduced in most sectors, but with the telecom-
munications allocation increased by 17% to PRs 1,037 million (US$218 mil-
lion) with an additional provision for telephone factory expansion of PRs
114.4 million (US$24 million).
1.06      The revised Third Year Plan provided for the connection of 160,000
telephones, major extensions to the toll network, extension of national trumk
dialing facilities, improvement and extension of international and intenring -
communications and extension of telephone manufacturing facilities. During
the first three years of the Plan, and due to the war with India and the
shortage of foreign exchange, expenditure, excluding factory provisions,
has been PRs 366 million (US$76 million) and the number of telephones instal-
led has been only 41,000.
1.07      The proposed   IDA Credit vill make possible some stepping up in
the rate of development.  An internuediate program was prepared for the period
July 1968 to June 1972 covering the connection of 175,000 telephones with
an expenditure for telecommunications of PRs 910 million (US$191 million)
including a foreign exchange component of PRs 375 million (US$79 million).
The proposed IDA project covers work to be carried out during the early part
of this program and provides PRs 76 million (US$16 million) of the required
foreign exchange component. Contracted and pending bilateral loans and
credits will provide a further PRs 182 million out of the remaining foreign
exchange reauirement of PRs 299 million (US$63 million); for the balance T&T
hopes to obtain a further IDA Credit in the future.
1.08      The proposed  credit would   be   the  first  for  telecommunica-
tions in Pakistan. The Borrower would be the Government of Pakistan which
would make the proceeds available to the beneficiary,   the  Telegraph
and Tele-phone Department (T&T) w1hich has no separate legal borrowing
power.  Internially generated funds will be adequate to finance the local
expenditure component.
1.09      This report is based on information provided by T&T and on the
findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. M. V. Scoffier, C. R.
Dickenson, H. B. Meier and C. R. Willoughby which visited Pakistan in June!
July 1968. Basic data relating to the network are given in Annex 1.
II. THE BENEICIARY - T&T DEPARTM4ENT OF PAKISTAN
2.01      Postal and telecommunication services for the whole of the Indian
subcontinent date back to the formation in 1837 of a Posts and Telegraphs
Department operating as a Government service under British rule. At the time
V,  "Interwing" refers to communication; between the East and West Provinces
of Pakistan.



-3-
of partition in 1947, the Pakistan FPLT Department was created to provide and
operate the postal and telecommunication services in East and lWest Pakistan.
In January 1962, the Pakistan Government decided to separate the telecommuni-
cations from the postal services and constituted T&T.
2.02      The T&T Department has a monopoly in the provision and operation of
the local, long-distance and international telephone, telegraph and telex ser-
vices. Details of T&Tls functions and significant data on the present res-
ponsibilities and activities of the Department are given in Annex 2.
Organization and lanagement
2.03      The T&T Department is a revenue earning department operating within
the civil service structure and directly under ministerial control. In this
respect it differs from autonomous public corporations such as the railways
and airline. An organization chart showing the T&T Department's relations
with Government and with the Telephone Industries of Pakistan (TIP) is attached
as Annex 3.
2.04      The head of T&T is the Director General who has the ex officio sta-
tus of a Joint 3ocrotary in the Ministry of Communications.A Joint Secretary
of the lainistry of Finance exercises financial control of T1T in his ca'a-
city of Financial Advisor.  TTTs develonment proposals are subject to ap-
proval by the -ational Planning Commission and the Rinistry of Finance.
2.05      The yearly allocation of funds for investment and operaGional ex-
penditures is subject to Parliamentary approval. The Auditor General is
responsible for audit of the T&T Departmentts accounts, but the work his
staff perform goes beyond a normal auditing function and includes day-to-day
bookkeeping and accounting work.
2.06      The Department is closely associated both through the joint res-
ponsibilities of certain of its senior officials and in its commercial and
financial arrangements with the Telephone Industries of Pakistan (TIP) factory
which was set up in 1954 in association with Siemens of Germany. The Govern-
ment has a majority interest in this factory which operates along commercial
lines within the Pakistan Factories legislation and with a Board of Directors,
the Chairman of wihich is the Secretary for Communications. Further factories
for manufacture of equinment and cable are scheduled to come into production
during the period 1970 to 1973. The financial inter-relationship between
T&T -and TIP is not clear and not fully commercial.  T&T has made an inte-
vest-free investment (currently PRs 50.2 million) in TIP; it has provided
advances of up to 100% against manufacture, accepted installations without
guarantee or retention payments, and carried out planning and design work
which should be the responsibility of the manufacturer. Any accurate costing
of TIPts production or analysis of its manufacturing efficiency is in these
circumstances impossible. The organization and m.anagement of the TIP opera--
tion is satisfactory and local manufacture has been developed to a consi-
derable extent.  It has been agreed during the negotiations that steps *ill
be taken, wiith the assistance of consultants, to -place the relationship
betueen T&T and TIP on a fully commercial basis.   The proposed credit does



not envisage any financing of materials for TIP ts production which might
however be considered for a future Bank/IDA operation after TIP has been
commercially separated from T&T.
2.07      A chart showing the organization within the Department is attached
as Annex 4. The Director General is Chief Executive Officer, responsible
for the planning, installation and operation of the telecommunication ser-
vices. He is assisted at T&T headquarters by two Chief Engineers responsible
for development and maintenance/operations, two Deputy Directors General
responsible for planning and staff/establishments and a Chief Account Of-
ficer. The country is divided into four telecommunications regions, each
headed by a General lIanager.
2.08      The organization of T&T suffers from weaknesses which result from
the fact that it has developed within the civil service structure rather
than as a separate business entity. This has offered certain advantages at
a time when the organization was too small to justify handling all of its
business, financial and procurement functions, but is no longer adequate for
a large and fast-growing public utility. Control is prejudiced by division
of responsibilities with other departments. Functions are not clearly de-
fined and there is inadequate delegation of authority. In a directorate
almost wholly composed of engineers, there is a tendency to give more weight
to engineering considerations rather than business and economic factors.
The present accounting system which is dealt with in detail in Chapter lII of
this report, is not controlled by the department and does not, in any case,
provide the information necessary for efficient management. In the absence
of a financial responsibility within the T&T Directorate, little use is
made even of the information which is available. In the essential function
of planning for development there is a general tendency to diversify and
over-provide rather than establish basic economic and financial priorities.
Present value cost studies betwieen alternative arrangements are not made
in most cases; anticipated returns on investment are not properly considered
in establishing priorities; and planning is not directed to making the most
economic plant provisions possible within the criteria of sound engineering
practices.
2.09      The need for a reorganization of T&T was discussed with the Secre-
taries of Finance and Comrmnication and they recognized the need for outside
assistance. During negotiations, the Government agreed therefore to retain
management consultants acceptable to IDA to review the position of T&T
within the Government structure and its internal organization. The three
main points to be covered are:
(a) the form of control to be exercised by Government
which should place financial and operational res-
ponsibility for all functions and activities of T&T
with its Chief Executive;
(b) the introduction of a modern accounting system for
T&T to supply management with the information neces-
sary for effective planning of TIT's expansion and
efficient control over its current operations;



(c)  the establishment of a wholly commercial rela-
tionship between T&T and TIP, including the
separation of liabilities, costs and reve:iues of
T&T from those of TIP.
The detailed terms of reference for the consultants, and a time schedule
for implementation of the reorganization were agreed upon during negotia-
tions, and are attached in Annex 5. The reorganization should be completed
by June 30, 1972. In order to emphasize the importance of this reorganiza-
tion, a limitation on disbursement from the proposed credit and commitments
under the project was imposed prior to the employment of the consultants.
Staff Training and Technical Assistance
2.10      As at the end of June 1968, some 29,000 persons were employed.
The level of telephone staffing is about 120 per 1,000 telephones. Other
administrations at a similar stage in their development have from 50-75
employees per 1,000 telephones. The Departmenkt faces certain special pro-
blems such as a widely spread network, lowly paid and inadequately quali-
fied staff, absenteeism due to poor health, and shortage of transport.
However, with the serious unemployment prevailing there has been a tendency
to over-employ rather than raise the level of productivity. This policy
should not be allowed to continue. Employment of superfluous personnel
creates a maintenance hazard and lowers the standard of service. }any of
the functions which T&T has to perform,such as billing, are not only cost-
ing mcre despite the low wage level than they would if mechanized, but are
producing results of poorer quality.
2.11      The Director General is alive to the problems resulting from over-
staffing and a review of the work unit allowances on which staffing is
based, was completed in July 1968. This should reduce relative staffing
levels by about ten percent. The introduction of mechanized accounting over
the next two years will make possible major economies in the telephone ac-
counts section where some 1,800 people are presently employed. The Director
General has during negotiations undertaken that there will be an increase in
labor productivity over the period of the project such that the ratio of
staff employed to number of stations in service will be reduced by at least
4% per annun.
2.12      The TMT Department maintains a Telecommunications Staff College
at Haripur, three Regional Training Schools at Karachi, Lahore, and Dacca,
and three Divisional Training Centers in each region. The Staff College
concentrates on the training of supervisory staff, the regional schools
on technician training, and the divisional schools on the training of
craftsmen and operators.
2.13     Training requirements are properly related to new plant provisions
with an appropriate provision for refresher and extension training designed
to improve the efficiency of existing staff.



-6-
2.14      The Staff College is a well equipped, well run and efficient
organization. Additional regional schools, two in W4est Pakistan and one
in East Pakistan, are being established with the assistance of a German
Government grant. The facilities existing and to be provided should be
adequate to meet the requirements of T&T. Further details are given in
Annex 6.
2.15      The policy of T&T is to employ local staff throughout the or-
ganization. The Department has, however, benefited from the study made
by NTB and financed by UNDP. Certain of the recommendations made are
inconclusive but a great deal of the detailed technical work contained
in NTB's report is proving to be of considerable value in the prepara-
tion and execution of T&Tts development proposals. A group of line
plant experts made available through Swedish Technical Assistance is pro-
viding valuable assistance in the design of the local and inter-office
cable networks. A German aid team is to be made available later this
year to examine account headings and budgetary procedures; their work
will be coordinated with that of the consultant advising on the overall
organization and accounting arrangements. In the case of large projects
such as design of the national Subscriber Long-Distance Dialing (STD)
network and the proposed W4est Pakistan microwave system, the mission pro-
posed that additional specialist advice should be obtained and this is
likely to be obtained from the suppliers.
III. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Accounting System
3.01      The T&T Department maintains its accounting records under the
traditional Government Budget Account System, which records mainly cash
transactions. All cash collections are paid to the Government Consoli-
dated Fund and expenditures are charged against this fund within the
limits of the budget allocations. Instead of normal depreciation provi-
sions,T&T make arbitrarily fixed annual cash contributions to a Renewals
and Reserve (R&R) Fund. Cash budget surpluses are retained in the Con-
solidated Fund and credited to a Surplus Fund. The Department does not
control either of these funds. T&T's accounts, as available, are inade-
quate and, as indicated in para. 2.09, the introduction of an integrated
accounting system which can provide complete and timely information and
adequate controls has therefore been agreed.
3.02      The inadequate accounting system has not allowed the optimal
organization of the accounting branch. Twelve employees work directly
for the Financial Adviser who is not subordinated to the Director General,
and roughly 350 employees within T&T report to the Auditor General of
Pakistan. Their functions are not restricted to auditing but include
accounting procedures which are not normally delegated to an outside body.



-7-
3.03      The disbursement procedures are not adequate for a fast grow-
ing organization like T&T, and the collection and other administrative
procedures are unnecessarily complicated. These factors have contrib-
uted to overstaffing within the accounting branch.
3.04      Since Pakistants budget accounts do not permit a meaningful fi-
nancial analysis, the Bank's staff have prepared pro forma financial sta-
tements as if T&T were a self-contained department fully responsible for
its financial operations. Although this will only be possible after the
completion of the financial reorganization, the financial tables shown
in Annexes 7 to 10 reconstruct comparable notional figures for the period
up to this point and for past years.
Audit
3.05      The Auditor General of Pakistan who reports directly to the
President of Pakistan is responsible for the audit of government depart-
ments. At present, the supply of final audit figures is subject to a
delay of more than a year. During negotiations, it was agreed that the
audit of T&TIs accounts after the accounting reorganization would be com-
pleted not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year, and
would be conducted by coipetent and exoerienced auditors acceptable to
IDA. The Commercial Audit Section of the Auditor General's Office is ex-
pected to be designated to do the audit.
Present Financial Position
3.06      Annex 7 shows notional balance sheets as of June 30, 1965 to 1968.
As of June 30, 1968, fixed assets in operation were estimated at about
PRs 910 million (US$191 million equivalent at official exchange rate), work
in progress PRs 160 million, and accumulated notional depreciation at PRs
270 million. A su mary of T&T's assets is shown below. The valuation
and cost allocation is tentative, and will be reviewed by the consultants
in their study (para. 2.09) to create a firm basis for tariff and rate of
return considerations.
Summary of T&T's Assets as at June 30, 1968
PRs Midllions
Net fixed assets                                800.6
Investments and advances                        56.1
Net current assets                               56.6
Total Assets                          913.3
3.07      T&Tts contributions to the R&R Fund had recently averaged only
3-40 of fixed assets. Despite the inadequate contributions, the R&R Fund
has been growing rapidly because the rules regulating disbursements from
this fund are inflexible and inexpedient. The traditional depreciation
procedures will be discontinued when the modern accounting system is intro-



-8-
duced. For purposes of the pro forma financial statements the deprecia-
tion reserve was accumulated on straight line basis at five percent.
3.08      Investments amounted to PRs 56.1 million including shares of
TIP (PRs 50.2 million), the Cable Factory in Khulna (PRs 2.5 million), the
Telecom Factory in Dacca (PRs 2.5 million), and T&T's participation in COMEA
(PRs 0.9 million). Current assets amounted to PRs 67.0 million consisting
of customers accounts receivable (PRs 29 million) and inventories (PRs 38
million). Current liabilities were estimated at PRs 10.4 million.
3.09      The notional basis for T&T's capitalization was established as
of June 1965 by deducting the department's net contributions to the R&R
and Surplus Fund from total capital outlay. The difference minus the
foreign exchange loans was established as the Central Budget's net contrib-
uticns. Retained earnings appear in the first year as a balancing item,
while for the following years the net profit is added and the Central Budget
contributions figure as balancing item. Under these assumptions, T&Tts
capitalization as of June 30, 1968, shows this position:
PRs aillions
Central Budget contributions              157.3
Retained earnings                         595.8
Total equity                    753.1
Long-term debt
Bilateral foreign exchange loans        160.2
Total liabilities               913.3
3.10      The long-term debt consists of some 16 leans, mainly from Germany,.
Japan, Netherlands, UK anld USA, most of them on concessionary terms. A
breakdown is given in Annex 11. The contracting and servicing of long-term
loans for Government departments is at present a function of the Econmmic
Affairs Division. Agreement was reached during negotiations that, on the
introduction of the modern accounting system, T&T would repay all leans
raised on its behalf by the Government on terms and conditions applicable
to such debts, as part of its financial responsibilities.
Tariffs
3.11      Tariffs for domestic traffic are set by the Ministry of Finance
in consultation with the Ministry of Communications while tariffs for
international services are set by agreement. No parliamentary approval is
necessary. Traditionally the tariffs have been adequate to cover current ex-
penditures and a substantial and increasing portion of development-expenditures.
3.12      As of July 1, 1968, T&T introduced a series of tariff changes for
rents and installation charges which are shown in Annex 12. Tariffs for me-
tered traffic and trunk call rates remained unchanged. The l w rates which4..
because of political considerations, are at present in force for interwing



-9-
traffic, will be reviewed when satellite service is established. The inland
telegraph rates established in 1958 and adjusted in 1964 to allow for the
general price increase are low in comparison with other countries.
3.13      The leasing of lines and equipment to sepu-govermnent institutions
like railways, Water and Power Development Authority (WJAPDA), or the Irriga-
tion Authorities, are a minor source of revenue too, but the rates charged
are low because of inadequate depreciation rates. In addition, rates are
only revised at infrequent intervals. The consultants are to be asked to
comment on these arrangements.
3.14      Tariffs have provided a high revenue, however not all revenues
were collected. Arrears amounting to about PRs 20 million have been out-
standing for several years. This is partially due to subscribers refusing
to pay incorrect bills. Billing procedures are awkward; the same informa-
tion is copied and checked several times, requiring hundreds of employees.
A Chief Accounts Officer was appointed in 1967 reporting directly to the
Director General, and having authority to collect bills irrespective of pub-
lic pressure. In consequence, the accounts receivable situation has improved.
Management is, however, conscious that part of the arrears dating from the
period before June 1966 will have to be written off.  At the time of the mis-
sionts visit roughly PRs 6 million were outstanding against semi-government
agencies:  Pakistan Western Railways (PWR), WJAPDA, West Pakistan Industrial
Development Corporation (UPIDC), etc. Recognizing the importance of this
matter, the Government has specifically agreed that it will keep its accounts
with T&T for services rendered, and also the accounts of Government depend-
encies, on a current basis.
3.15      Accounts of-Government Departments are adjusted by book entries at
half yearly intervals, and in consequence T&T can only finalize its accounts
long after the end of the fiscal year. To avoid these delays, it has been
recommended that interdepartmental services should be paid for on a cash basis.
Past Financial Performance
3.16      The Notional Profit and Loss Statement and the Cash Flow Statement
attached in Annexes 8 and 9 show a satisfactory financial perfo:.mance over
the past fewl years, which is summarized below;:
Summary Pro Forma Profit and Loss Statement (PRs Millions)
F.Y.   1965      1966      1967      1968
Revenues              161.8     200.7     217.5     245.6
Expenses             (101.6)   (115.0)   (123.5)   (136.6)
Interest              (13.1)    (14.8)    (15.6)    (15.9)
Net Profit        47.l      70.9     _78.4      93.1
The high average revenue per telephone set of PRs 962 in fiscal year 1965 in-
creased to PRs 1,169 in fiscal year 1968, and the rate of return (as defined
in the Credit Agreement, Section 4.06(b)) increased in the same period from
8 to 125,. The large increase is rmainly attributable to the completion of the
coaxial cable, the consequent extension of STD, and an increase of tariffs in
1965.The absolute level of the rate of return is howqever uncertain because the



-10-
capital base,, which will be examined by the consultant, needs a detailed as-
sessxjent. The main points to be considered are covered in the notes to Annex 7.
3.17       Past earnings have financed a major part of the expansion program
and  additional uorling capital needs.  As the following breakdown shows, the
share of internally generated funds has increased rapidly after FY 1965 and
has maintained a high level:
Sources of Funds in ,             FY   1965    1966     1967     1968
Internal cash generation              58.2    86.7     79.0      82.4
Bilateral foreign exchange loans      14.6    18.5     19.4      24.8
Central Budget Contributions          26.3    (5.9)    (0.3)    (11-5)
Others                                 0.9     0.7      1.9       4.3
100.0   lo.o    100;70   100.0
In the past few years T&T has become independent from Central Budget
Contributions and has even been able to reverse the net flow of funds.
eV  EXISTING FACILITIES
-Local Telephones                      --
4.o1      Service at the main centers is provided using automatic exchanges.
Manual exchanges are installed for the smaller towns although it is the
intention in the more important of these to provide small automatic exchanges,
production of which will commence shortly. The Department had at the end of
March 1968 a total of 427 automatic and manual telephone exchanges with a
line unit capacity of 155,718 and with 123,000 working exchange lines, of
which 81% were automatic. A drive to improve rural communications by
providing Public Call Office (PCO) facilities in police stations, Tehsil
and Thana? headquarters towns, was commenced in 1958. By the end of 1967
a total of 598 PCO's had been provided out of the target for June 1970 of 819.
4.02      The local distribution system is largely underground in the main
to-ns with aerial cable and open wire lines mainly used in the smaller towns
and in rural areas. All cable is at present imported but local production
is scheduled to start in 1971. The poles used for all construction are of
a tubular metal type in unit form and are constructed locally in the T&T
workshops. Underground and overhead construction standards have in the past
been below average but are now regarded as adequate.
Long-Distance System
4.03      The attached maps 1 and 2 shot7 the existing and proposed main line
communication links writh the proposed extensions under the credit shown in red.
4.o4      Telecommunications between the two wings are provided by means of
HF radio facilities which do not meet requirements. Radio interference
problems exist and these together with certain technical shortcomings on the
equipment have made it extremely difficult to give a satisfactory standard
of service over the 13 circuits which are available.
1/ Tehsil/Thana is the intermediate administrative unit between the District
and the Union Council and it generally has a population in the neighborhood
of 100,000 people.



-11-
4.05      In W4est Pakistan a 960-channel two-tube coaxial cable links
Karachi with the main cities to the north.  In East Pakistan a 60-channel
low capacity VHF system linlks the main centers.  The present equipped
channel capacity of the Uest Pakistan coaxial cable and the East Pakistan
VHF system is almost fully occupied.  Further channels can be added to the
Wlest Pakistan systemn and these should meet requirements on most sections
until appro;imately 1972. In East Pakistan the position will be improved
between Dacca, Chittagong, Khulna and Kushtia on completion in late 1969
of a new high capacity microwave system.  As a result of restrictions on
development expenditure, many of the major long-distance routes do not havre
adequate standby facilities. The remaining trunk communications within
the wJings are provided by means of open wire lines and open wire carrier
systems.
4.06      The total trunk netwaork consists of about 2,200 circuits with
total circuit mileage of 560,0oo existing at the end of 1967. STD facili-
ties were first introduced on a point-to-point basis in 1962 and are now
operating on 15 circuit routes, 13 in V.est Pakistan, linking main centers
which carry 70% of the total trunk traffic.  STD has, by providing a more
easily used service, contributed to the serious congestion problems which
exist during business hours over most of the routes.
4.07      At the end of 1967, 1,192 telegraph offices were in service,-the
majority being provided with either manual (Morse) or voice (telephone, tele-
gram) facilities. Teleprinter service was available to some 60 main offices.
Telex facilities have so far only been provided for Karachi, Lahore, Rawal-
pindi (interconnected with one another by direct dialing) and Dacca. All
four offices have international telex service available to them.
International Facilities
4.o3      International te'ephone facilities are provided over the Central
Treaty Organization (Cento) microwave link to Teheran, Ankara, London and
Rome mad via HF radio schedules operating to 18 countries. The HF radio
circuits are subject to atmospheric noise and interruption. The Cento
microwave lin1c does not meet international standards.  International tele-
graph and tele. facilities are provided via daily HF schedules with some
21 countries.
V. THE PROGRAINI
5.01      The revised Third Five Year Plan provides for an expenditure on
telecommunications (excluding factory provisions) within the plan period
of PRs 1,037 million (US$218 million). The tempo of development can be
increased over the remainder of the plan period, but even so the total nun-
ber of telephones likely to be installed by June 30, 1970, is 247,000 as
against an original target of 290,000. Also, a number of major long-
dis-tance schemes will continue into 1972.



-12-
5.02      After a careful review of the justification and priorities of
the various proposals, the ability of T&T to execute the program, TIP's
manufacturing capacity and the time required for detailed planning, and
for supply of the equipment, the Association's staff prepared Annexes 13 and
1 showing details of the breakdown between the various plans together with
a revised and integrated program for the period June 1968 to July 1972.
This program which is considered realistic was discussed and agreed wjith
the T&T Department.
5.03      The following are the main items included in the revised program:
(a)  provision of 175,000 additional telephones;
(b)  provision of 550 public call offices in rural areas;
(c)  provision of 2,700 pair miles of open wire trunk lines,
and 607 carrier trunlc circuits on open wire lines;
(d)  microwave and coadial cable system extensions to the
main towns in East and Wlest Pakistan;
(e)  extension of STD facilities to provide a full inter-
dialing network between 13 main towns in East and 21
main towns in West Pakistan;
(f) extension of the intenjing and international network by:
(i) provision of two satellite ground stations, and
(ii) improvement of existing HF radio interwing and
international systems
(g) extensions to the telegraph systems;
(h) miscellaneous provisions including erection of buildings,
provision of Government and private networks, extension
of school facilities, etc.
5.0h      This program which has been set out in greater detail in Annex 15
will go some way towards meeting the essential outstanding demand for ad-
ditional and improved local, toll, and international services, including
certain basic provisions in rural areas. It is regarded as technically
sound and capable of implementation by T&T.
5.05      The following schedule summarizes the costs of the program:



-13-
% of
Total
PRs Millions          US$ Millions      Expen-
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  diture
1. Local telephone
network (175,ooo
telephones)         271.4  140.1  411.5   57.o   29.4   86.4     45.3
2. Trunk switching
and long-distance
network             105.9  125.7  231.6    22.2  26.4   48.6     25.3
3. Interwing and
international        28.2   56.1   84.3     5.9   11.8   17.7     9.3
4. Telegraphs and
telex                28.0    8.6   36.6     5.9   1.8    7.7      4.0
5. Miscellaneous,
including Gov-
ernment             101.3   44.8  146.1    21.3   9.4   30.7     16.1
Total Costs      534.8  375.3  910.1   112.3  78.8  191.1    100.0
The financing plan for the foreign exchange requirements of the program
amounting to PRs 375 million (see also Annex 16) is dealt with in paragraph
8.02. Factory investment will amount to a further Piis 47.8 million (US$10.0
million) giving an overall total expenditure of PRs 957.9 million (US$200.8
million).
5.06      The actual levels of cost per telephone are closely in line with
those of other developing countries and are considered reasonable as are
the investments in the various sectors when related to the geographical
factors and stage of development reached.
VI.  THE PROJECT FOR BANK FIMAKCING
The Project
6.01      The proposed IDA Credit would meet T&T's foreign currency require-
ments for the execution of about 22% of the revised program and provides
for the extension of the local telephone and long-distance networks and
the improvement of HF radio facilities, including part of the work to be
executed or commitments to be entered into during the period from the date
the loan becomes effective to end of fiscal year 1970.The estimatedcost of the
parts of the project proposed for IDA financing is P1s 199 million (US$42 mil-
lion), with a foreign exchange component of PRs 76 million (US$16 million).
Details of the provisions are as follows:



-14-
PRs Millions            US$ Millions
Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign   Total
1. Subscribers distrib-
ution network (tele-
phone cables, over-
head line networks,
subscribers concen-
trators and carrier
systems)                92.0    32.2   124.2    19.3     6.8    26.1
2. Microwave and coaxial
cable systems from
Dacca to Myrnensingh,
Dacca to Sylhet,
Kushtia to Rangpur
and Rajshahi, Hajiganj
to Comilla and Rawal-
pindi (spur) to
Haripur; VHF mobile
radio provisions        13.2    23.4    36.6     2.8     4.9     7.7
3. Open wiire lines to ex-
changes and PCO's in
East and WIest Pak-
istan                   15.2    13.8    29.0     3.2     2.9     6.1
4. Interwlng and inter-
natiorIar network
(HF radio s7stem
improvements)            2.3     2.0     4.3     0.5    0o.      0.9
5.  Consultants services        -     1.0     1.0       -     0.2     0.2
6.  Contingencies               -     3.8     3.8       -     0.8     0.8
122.7    76.2   198.9    25.8    16.0    41.8
The estirmates of costs for the various schemes prcpos,'d for :TA financing
are based on experience with restricted tendering und2r bilateral credits
and certain savings are possible.  The Pak-.star. Goverrrnment understands that
it will have to meet the local expenditure, estimated as less than FRs 0.05
million, in respect of the consultants' services.
6.02      While IDA financing would be limited to the above items, the
proiect will include the associated parts of T&T's program as covered by
para. 5.05, items 1 and 2 and set oult in Annex 15, paras. 1.1, 1.2, 2.1,



-15-
and 2.2. Assurances vere obtained during negotiations that T&T would not emi
bark on any new major expansion outside of that covered in the revised
third Five-Year Plan and the project prior to completion of the proposed
project, without consultation with and agreement by the Association. The
balance of expenditure under the revised program (set out in paras. 5.03
to 5.05) iwhich will be undertaken during the period from July 1, 1968, to
June 30, 1972, amounts to PRs 711 million (US$1h9 million) with a foreign
exchange component of PRs 299 million (US$63 million).
Procurement and Disbursement
6.03      All purchases under the credit will be subject to international
corpetitive bidding. ThT's procedures for procurement under international
competinive bidding have been examined and found satisfactory.   Included
in the project is the purchase of sheet metal and material for the fabri-
cation of telephone poles in T&T's workshops at Notri and Dacca. The im-
ported material, which will be suoject to international tendering, re-
presents about 75% of the total cost of the finished pole.   Disbursements
will be against normal commercial documents.
6.04      T&T, in making previous overseas purchases under bilateral fi-
nancing, has resorted only to tendering on a limited basis within the
country concerned after the appropriate loan or credit has been obtained.
It would be preferable for the part of the program outside the project
that international tendering procedures should be resorted to and that
the bids should include a basis for financing to be evaluated with the
other pro-posals. This point was impressed on T&T, but was not made a con-
dition of the credit.  They are in fact now following this procedure in the
case of tenders for satellite ground stations.
6.05      If any savings in expenditure are realized as against estimated
costs, the unused balance of the credit will, in the light of the position
at the time, be applied for financing other items included in the project.
VII.  JUSTIhICATIOI OF THE PROJECT
7.01      Telecommunications in Pakistan primarily serve business and gov-
ernment subscribers, and as many as 95% of the telephones available are
used largely for these purposes. Since 1960, whilst GNP has grown at an
average rate of 5.3%, the number of telephones has been growing at about
11% and trunk calls at about 25%. However, provision of telecommunication
services has not kept pace with the growth of other sectors of the economy
and many important industrial and commercial demands remain unmet.   Com-
parison with six other rapidly growing Asian economies in Annex 17 il-
lustrates how Fakis-tan contrasts with them, (a) in its low telephone den-
sity, (b) in the much lower rate of growth of telephones than of road
vehicles, and (c) in spending considerably less of the national income on
investment in telecommunications.



-16-
7.02      Projections indicate that it will be imiossible to meet the tar-
gets set in the Third Five Year Plan for 1970. The shortfall will be
about 26% in terms of total investment and in terms of telephones installed.
Yet the targets implied by the revised program to 1272 are quite ambitious.
The number of telephones iiill growi at an average rate above 19% and in-
vestment in telecommunications will rise from an average of about 0.21% of
GIP during the Second Plan (1960-1965) to an average of about 0.30% of GNTP
over -the four years to 1972. Between 1968 and 1972, the number of tele-
phones per 1,000 peonle would rise in lest Pakistan from about 2 to 4 and
in East Pakisvan from about 0.5 to 1.5; these 1972 figures would fall
short of the tele;hone densities already attained elsewhere in Asia.
7.03      WIore than 405 of the total investment planned is for expansion
of local telephone networks. Detailed analysis of TMT's plans suggests that
there is some imbalance in the provisions for the various areas. However,
T&T should, subject to the physical constraints on implementation, revise
plans to ensure that expansion takes 1lace where most needed.  Local tele-
phone service is generally being nrovided at tariffs uihich yield a reason-
able rate of return. Pending demand will remain after 1972 throughout
the country, but will be heavlest in the multi-exchange areas wjhere the
implementation constraints are tightest. Of the proposed credit, about
40% would be snent on local exchange netwo2'k plant, primarily for use in
the 12 multi-exchange areas which will continue to contain about 80/S of
the tele'honez in Pakistan.  CalculationDs -resented in Annex 18 suggest
that the financial rate of return to T&T on the expansion of local tele-
phone service in the multi-exchange areas will be about 20C, and the eco-
nomic rate of return, related to what people would be prepared to pay for
telephone service because of the time-savings and other benefits it pro-
vides, would be about four times this.
7.0      About one third of the total investment program would go to the
long-distance sector. The largest single item is provision of two satellite
earth stations to work via the proposed Intelsat 3 series satellite to be
placed over the Indian Ocean in mid-1969. All the interwing traffic, and
a considerable proportion of Pakistan's international traffic are presently
carried by HF radio iihich will never be able to provide service of the
quality or quantity required to support the country's economic progress.
T&Ts choice of satellite communication for meeting this need is reasonable.
Projections suggest that annual interwing telephone traffic over this
link might reach 20 million minutes by 1972 compared with less than one
million minutes carried by the totally inadequate existing facilities in
1966/67.  On completlon of extensions already in hand, 17 interwing HF
radio circuits will be available, and about 25 international channel ter-
minations. Some PRs 2 million of the proposed credit will be spent
to modernize these facilities which will carry telegraph traffic, provide
teleplhone facilities to countries wihich cannot be reached by satellite
and act as an emergency standby for the satellite system.
7.05      Provision of STD facilit-es between the principal towns in East
and W"est Pakistan will enable administrative and business decisions to be



-17-
made more rapidly and on better infolmation than is presently possible,should
help  the economy   and  facilitate the execution of projects of all types.
Inspection indicates that T&T has wisely selected the towns for inclusion
in the STD network oy 1972, on the basis of size and comnmercial importance.
Traffic on many manual trunk routes has been severely restricted, and on
many of the routes converted to STD operation in the last few years, traf-
fic has quadrupled or quintupled uithin one year of conversion.   Increases
are unlikely to be so great on the smaller routes which have still to be
converted to 5TD, but traffic is likely to double or treble where commu-
nity of interest is strong, and on existing STD routes will at least con-
tinue to grow at a rate related to the grovth of subscribers in the ori-
ginating and destinatory exchanges. Projections of traffic and of circuit
requirements, presented in detail in Annex 18, show the need for the various
duplex microwave and four-tube coaxial systems included in the program.
7.06      The pro'osed c r e d i t will make available some PRs 20 million
for provision of microwave and coaxial links to the principal towns in the
northern part of East Pakistan which will be included in the first stage
of STD. T&T vill be required to obtain tenders for both microwave and
coaxial systems in order that the most advantageous provision can be made.
STD tariffs are currently very high in Pakistan compared with other countries,
yet traffic, being predominantly of a business/administrative nature, is
probably not very price elastic. Of the various routes for which IDA fi-
nancing would be used, the one on which traffic forecasts indicate the least
amount of traffic was subJected to detailed analysis. The total investment
required to provide STD on this route would yield a rate of return to T&T
at current tariffs in the order of 75%, and in view of the likely low price
elasticity of trunk traffic this may be considered a reasonable approxima-
tion to an economic rate of return.
7.07      The proposed credit also includes some PRs l4 million for exmpansion
of the existing network of long-distance open wire lines, which provide
trunk service Lor the smaller towns, and for provision of Public Call Of-
fices in rural areas.  Open wire line projects were selected for inclusion
in the program on the basis of up-to-date traffic trends on each route and
local exchange growith. Instead of adopting the list of arbitrarily selected
PCO projects proposed by T&T, the mission proposed and T&T accepted, that
finance under the c r e d i t should be provided for PCOIs only where the vil-
lage would guarantee an annual gross revenue to T&T equivalent to 101 of the
investment involved in the provision, or where T&T could reasonably project
traffic to yield -this return.  This would, in most cases, ensure financial
viability within a reasonable period. It would have the other important
advantage of helping to ensure that new PCOls would be located in those
places where the need is greatest.
7.o8      If the proposed credit is to be of maximun advantage to the econony
of Pakistan, it is important that T&T develop a more commercial outlook
and give more attention to the priority needs of business and commerce than
it has done in the past. Telex must be developed at a more rapid pace,



-18-
Private Branch Exchange (PBX) and teleprinter equipment must be made avail-
able more readily and at more reasonab'le prices. In general, tariffs
require review to relate them more explicitly to costs. However, in the
case of services in short supply, tariffs may need to be maintained sub-
stantially above costs in order to perform an effective rationing functioin.
Higher tariffs should then be applied equally to all users of the service
in question, and the need for such rationing should be openly recognized by
T&T and used as a guide to areas where expansion is urgently required. It
has been agreed during the negotiations that the consultants will examine
these factors in relation to the tariff structure.
VIII. FUTURE FI2ANCES
Financing Plan
8.01      In annexes 7 to 9, T&T's finances are projected up to fiscal year
1975. The expansion program FY 1969-1972 which includes the IDA project
calls for a total investment of IRs 1,106.1 million, of which 82.3% will
be invested in fixed assets, 12.11% in factories and 5.6% will be used to
increase working capital. These requirements will be met as follows:
Use of Funds         Source of Funds
PRs                                                       PRs
Millions     %                                            Millions     d
910.2    82.3   Capital construc-     Internal cash
tion                  generation         940.3
lMinus: debt
133.3    12.1   Investments in                service    (11l.1)
factories, ad-       OwNn cash re-
vances, parti-        sources            826.2    7h.7
cipations
IDA Credit           76.2     6.9
62.6     5.6   Jorking capital
Other foreign
exchange fi-
nancing            299.2    27.1
1,201.6   1_0.6
Retention of
cash surplus in
Central Budget     (95.5)   (8.6)
1, 106.1  100.0                                           1, 106.v 1  100 .0
The flow of funds analysis reflects a financially sound enterprise. T&T
has sufficient internal cash generation to cover all local capital expendi-
tures, debt service and a flow of surplus funds to the Central Budget.
The foreign exchange loans, as shown in para. 8.02, will provide one third
of the capital requirements.



-19-
8.02      The foreign exchange requirements of the FY 1969-1972 program of
PRs 375 million would be financed as follows:
PRs          US$ IM1illions
Millions        Equivalent
Proposed IDA Credit                       76.2              16.0
Other foreign exchange
financing                              299.2               62.9
Existing bilateral loans      54.1                  11.4
Bilateral loans secured
or under negotiation        128.1                  26.9
Additional requirements      117.0                  24.6
Total                              375.4               78.9
8.03     1.Uilst the prop,osed IDA credit to the Pakistan Government would
be made under normal terms and conditions, a term of 24 years, including a
grace period of 4 years, was agreed upon for the repayment by T&T to the
Government.  The Government's present interest rate of 6%7 under which the
Government makes loans to its dependencies has been applied for the relending.
8.04      The existing bilateral loans are listed in Annex 11 with their
respective terms and repayment schedules. All foreign exchange require-
ments are secured or under negotiation except for PRs 117.0 million for
which .'akistan hopes to obtain a further IDA credit in the future.  As a
safeguard, assurances have been obtained from the Pakistan Government during
the negotiations that they will use their best efforts to make available
the required foreign currency on reasonable terms to execute the proposed pro-
ject.   Based on past experience, an average seven year grace period with
an interest rate of 6, was assumed for those loans for which the precise
terms and conditions are not known yet.
Future Financial Position and Operating Results
8.05      The projected balance sheets (Annex 7) reflect TMT's and the Gov-
ernment's conmitment to introduce a modern accounting system for T&T includ-
ing the power to control cash, accounts payable and accounts receivable,
and to borrow short-term money. The assumptions about future revenues and
expenditures are included in the notes to Annex 8.
8.06      To restrict demand to the supply of telephone services, relatively
high tariff-s are required resulting in high profits which T&T cannot ful-
ly utilize in its telecormmunication expansion, due to foreign exchange li-
mitations in Pakistan.  Since a reduction of tariffs wzould involve a dis-
ruption of the market, the inevitable surplus should be used in sectors of
the economy where it does not require foreign exchange. At present, T&T
is not subject to income taxation. But T&T is paying to the Central Gov-
ernment 6% interest on the capital contributions from the Central Budget.



-20-
Upon introduction of the new accounting system, T&T will retain its surplus
after payment of an annual contribution to Government.It has been agreed dur-
ing the'negotiations that T&T will pay to the Government,beginning with fisca'.
year 1973, an annual contribution of 6% or such other percentage as may be
established from time to time after consultation between the Government and
IDA. This contribution will be calculated on T&T's total equity at the
beginning of each year and the accounting consultants will assist T&T in
determining the initial amount of equity prior to fiscal 1973. Considering
these payments in lieu of taxes as part of T&T's operating expenses, this
would result in rates of return of between 10 and 13% for the period 1966-
1975 (see Annex 8). The rate base is defined as average net fixed assets
in operation plus an additional four percent thereof to represent working
capital.
8.07      Internal cash generation, after contributions in lieu of taxes,
would increase from PRs 151.3 million in 1968 to PRs 334.h million in 1975
allowing for a debt service coverage of between five and nine times (see
Annex 9).
8.o8      The debt/equity ratio would increase over the projected period
from 18:82 in 1968 to 31:69 in 1975 which is still a satisfactory ratio.
But since the debt servicing burden will increase rapidly after 1975, the
Government has agreed during negotiations that T&T will consult the Asso-
ciation if the maximum annual debt service in the future is not covered
1.5 times by net revenue (before charging depreciation) of a 12-month period
prior to the incurring of new debt.
Rate Covenant
8.og      Considering that T&T's present tariffs will provide satisfactory
financial results and an acceptable financing plan, it has been agreed that
they should not be reduced during the construction period of the project
without the Association's agreement being obtained. After the new account-
ing system has been introduced, a rate covenant will apply, requiring an
annual return of not less than ten percent on T&Tts race base.   The return
level might have to be reviewed when the consultants[ evaluation of T&T's
rate base is available. The rate of return will be calculated on average
fixed assets in operation plus working capital of four percent on net fixed
assets in operation, and taking net income from operation after covering
all operating expenses, including a straight line depreciation of at least
five percent and the six percent contribution to Goverrment (see pa1a. 8.06).
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND RECO0E1NDATIONS
9.01      The revised program as agreed with T&T is technically sound and
is designed to meet the more urgent and essential needs for the expansion
of public telecommunication services in Pakistan.



-21-
9.02      A major supplementary benefit to be expected fron the IDA credit
is the employment of consultants to recommend on reorganization of the
Department, and improvements in its efficiency and ability to meet its
obligations to the economy.
9.03      Procurement procedures are satisfactory.  Within the terms of
these procedures, T&T will be required in the case of the proposed coaxial
links in East Pakistan, to obtain alternative bids for microwave and coax-
ial systems in order that the most advantageous provision can be adopted
as proposed in paragraph 7.06.
9.04      The T&T Department is capable of realizing the revised program
and operating the new facilities. The program is both financially viable
and economically justified within the general framework of Pakistan's
Development Plans. It is the maximum program considered realistic and
practical in present circumstances and up to 1972.
9.05      The program forms a suitable basis for an IDA Credit to the Gov-
ernment of Pakistan of US$16 million, to be relent to the T&T Department
on the conditions specified in paragraph 8.03. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that:
(a) Government will employ consultants under the agreed
terms of reference to recommend on and help in the
implementation of the reorganization of T&T, the
establishment of a modern accounting system, and
the introduction of commercial relations between
T&T and TIP within the time limits laid down in an
agreed timetable (paras. 2.06, 2.08, 2.09, 3.01,
3.06, and Annex 5);
(b)  the consultants will also review, and advise on,
various other organizational, operational and
financial aspects listed in the agreed terms of
reference (paras. 2.08, 2.09, 3.01, 3.06, 3.13,
3.16, 7.08, 8.09 and Annex 5);
(c) levels of staffing related to the number of tele-
phones in service wjill be reduced (para. 2.11);
(d)  satisfactory audit procedures will be established
after the introduction of commercial accounting
for T&T; prior to this,annual budget accounts
would be submitted to the Association (para. 3.05);
(e)  after introduction of the new acoounting system,
T&T will be required to repay its foreign ex-
change loans to Government as part of its finan-
cial responsibilities (para. 3.10);



-22-
(f) satisfactory procedures will be established for
the expeditious payment of accounts for tele-
communications services by Government Departments
and Agencies, preferably on a cash basis (para.
3.15);
(g) the associated parts of the project necessary for
effective use of the plant provided under the
credit will be proceeded with (para. 6.01);
(h) additional major plant provisions exceeding $2
million in total cost will not be undertaken
prior to comipletion of the project without con-
sultation with, and agreement by, the Associa-
tion (para. 6.01);
(i) the Borrower shall use its best efforts to obtain
bilateral loans and/or make available the required
foreign currency to execute the preposed project
(para. 8.o4);
(j) for the asswmption of new debt-the covenant of
para. 8.08 will be applied;
(k) tariff reductions will not be made during the
construction period without prior agreement by the
Association; beginning 1972, a rate of return
covenant will be applied (para. 8.09).
January 21, 1969



ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN
T&T DEPART14ENT
BASIC DATA AS OF MARCH 31, 1968 AND FOR 1968-1972 DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1.  PLA4T AND TELEPHONES IN SERVICE                             Totals
Number of telephone stations of all kinds in              166,902
service
Number of main subscribers' lines                          122,659
Per cent automatic lines                                        81
Number of telephone exchanges                                  427
lNumber of long-distance circuits                            2,162
Number of Public Call Office lines to other                    598
areas
Total mileage of long-distance circuits                    560,000 miles
Per cent automatic long-distance traffic                        68
Number of telex subscribers                                    149
Average yearly growth rate in total number
of telephones during last 12 years                           12.2%
TOTAL STAFF (June 1968)                                    29,400
ASSETS VALUE AND REVEnUE (June 1968)
Net fixed assets in operation as of June 30,1968           PRs64O million
Average value - per telephone as of June 30, 1968         PRs3,950
Total revenue in fiscal year 1968                         PRs246 million
DE,MAND - PROPOSED EXPANSION AND ESTIMATED COSTS
(July 1968 to June 1972)
Number of waiting applicants for telephones                 68,000
Proposed yearly growth in telephone lines during period       19.2%
Proposed increase in telephone lines                      175,000
Construction costs                                        PRs9lO millior
Proposed IDA proportion of construction costs                 8.35%
January 21, 1969



ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN
DEPARTMENT OF TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONES
LIST OF PRINCIPAL FUNCTIONS EXERCISED BY T&T
AND SIGNIFICANT D7TA ON ITS RESPONSIBILITIES ANW-D TIVITIES
(1)     The Department exercises the telecommunications monopoly in
Pakistan under the terms of the Telegraph Act 1885.
(2)     The principal function of the T&T Department is to establish
and operate the facilities needed for providing telephone, telegraph
and telex Services wJithin Pakistan and to and frorm other countries
with which Pakistan has a community of interest.
(3)     The T&T Department also provides the following miscellaneous
services:
(a)  private telephone and telegraph networks for Government agencies
and administrations and private users, including railroads,
police, inland water transport, defence services etc;
(b)  broadcasting program links T&T is also scheduled to provide
similar facilities in due course for the television service;
(c)  it is responsible for the licensing of commercial and amateur
radio transmitters;
(d)  it controls the radio frequency spectrum for use in Pakistan
and registers frequencies and operates a radio monitoring
service receiving station at Gaghari;
(e)- it operates its own assembly workshops at Kotri and Dacca
producing its requirement of galvanised steel tubes and
associated fittings;
(f)  advisory and engineering assistance on telecommunications to
other government departments and agencies;
(4)     The Department operates an engineering staff college at Haripur
which will in future deal wholly with the training of executive and super-
visory staff. The initial training of technicians and vocational train-
ing of workmen is the responsibility of regional training schools located
at Dacca, Karachi, and Lahore. Regional school facilities are to be ex-
tended by the provision of further schools at Peshawar and Rohri in
WJest Pakistan and Khulna in East Pakistan.
(5)     The Department operates its own research section which not only
assesses equipment and methods for use in Pakistan, but is also involved
in the engineering design of equipment for manufacture by TIP.
(6)     Representation of Pakistan in negotiations on service rates,
tariffs, and revenue divisions with other administrations and on inter-
national organizations such as the ITU, CCITT, CTB and INTELSAT.
(7)     The Department has taken a major part in the organization and
setting-up of TIP both in financing by providing funds for investment
and advances against manufacture and also in providing technical staff
at various levels and engineering facilities such as EPIC, the research
branch and the training school.
October 30, 19-3



PAKISTAN
TELEGRAPH a TELEPHONE DEPARTMENT
RELATIONS WITH GOVERNMENT
PRESIDENT
MINISTER OF
MINISTER OF FINANCE
COMMUNICATIONS
NATIONAL PLANNING
r        1      COMMISSION
SECRETARY FOR
AUDITOR GENERAL           SECRETARY FINANCE         - - - - - -                  COMMUNICATIONS
|   I              AND CHAIRMAN TIP
I   PLANNING PROPOSALS
FINANCIAL ADVISOR                    T.& T. DEPARTMENT
I            MANAGING DIRECTOR
|HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS        EPICYMAAERS
AND REGIONS
AND REGIONS    RESEARCH BRANCH                               D
z
LINES OF CONTROL  ---- LINES OF COORDINATION                                                                                    m
IBRO-4124 x
.U)



PAKISTAN
TELEGRAPH a TELEPHONE DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
-   --- --   ---.   ---   - --   -- - ._  -. .   .  ._ ._. _. _._. _  _. ._ _ --- -- - - - - -- --  .   _ _ _ _ _   . ._ _ _ _.   ._ . . _ _.   _  _  _ _ _ _   .  ._ -   - - -   -. .  _. -   -- - -   -- - - - -   ._  ._ - -   -- -   --   -----   ---   ._ _. - -- -   ._.  ._ -   ----   -- - -- - -- - -   - --. ---   --
-IRECrORArE GENERAL
DIRECTOR GENERAL
CHIEF ENGINEER~~_                                                                   CHIEF ENGINEER   
| MAINTENANCE A ND OPERATIONS |                                                                                 DEVELt )MENT
DEPUTY DIREC TOR GENERAL        |DPTDIRE ORGERA 
PLANNING                 |    TF ET2LISM=TL                             .CIFACUT                          FIE
,, IE  TY                                     ADMINISTRA ION
CHIEF EPN                          AND             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIRECTOR
CHIEF ENGINEERFIL CHIEF ENGINEER LN  ITNE       DRCO               N
OPERATIO     TEL~~GINEGRPHTLRA                 EI           ESTABLISHMENT        SCHOOLSCIEENNERHEFNGER
TELEGRAPH                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECTION S            COSNTOOGDSAC
FIELD~~~~~~~~~~CHE
MAINTENANCE                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAINING       ECAG
REGIONS
GENERAL MANAGER  GENERAL MANAGER  GENERAL MANAGER  GENERAL MANAGER    GENERAL MANAGER    DIRECTOR
TELEPHONES  _      ETR               STR     _       KTR                NTR      -    TELEPHONES       GENERAL MANAGER
(DACCA)         (DACCA)           (KARACHII       (KARACHII)        ILAHORE)         LAHORE             RESEARCH
I      ItI                                I                           I     I
, I    I               I,           It i   ti                                 1
DIRECTORS                          DIRECTOR                           DIRECTOR
EVELOPMENT                         DEVELOPMENT                       DEVELOPMENT
TELEPHONE AND                                                           L
MCROWAVE
zz
LINES OF CONTROL  ---- LINES OF COORDINATION                                                                                                                           Z
Oclober 1968                                                                                                                                                          IBRD-4125 X



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
PAKISTAN T&T DEPARTMENT
Agreed Terms of Reference for IManagement Consultants
The assignment of the M4anagement Consultant is to survey,
analyze and review T&T's management, administration and organization
with respect to their effect on the performance, results and accomplish-
ments of the Department and to make recommendations regarding improvements
that should be made in the Department's organization and administrative
methods to permit the effective discharge of its responsibilities to the
economy.
Item 1: A review of the overall organization and manage-
ment of the T&T Department, its relations with Government,
with other departments, with other operating bodies, with
industry and with its subscribers. Identification of the
steps needed to enable the Department to operate along
efficient business lines. Particular attention should be
given to (a) elimination of the present division of re-
sponsibilities for T&T's operations, and (b) endowment of
the Chief aFecutive of T&T with adequate financial re-
sponsibility for the operation of the Department and con-
trol of its finances within the limits of the parliamentary
grant system or such other system of overall government
control consistent with the constitution of Pakistan as the
Consultant may recommend.
Item 2: The establishment of a modern accounting system
which will provide the necessary managerial tools for
determining the value of investment, the revenues and
expenses attributable to the various services provided
by the Department, and other data vital to an efficient
business operation. Such a study should consider, but
not necessarily limit itself to, the following items:
(a) Design in detail and introduction of 1'n
accounting system which will employ a^crual
accounting as it pertains to assets,  Labi-
lities, capital, surplus, income and c.,-ense
accounts.
(b) A system of reporting to and review and con-
trol by Government which will enable it to
assess the validity of all financial and tech-
nical projections and of the effectiveness
and efficiency of management, whilst leaving
the Chief Executive of T&T with adequate re-
sponsibilities for administrative, financial
and operational matters on a unified basis.
(c) A system of internal budgetary control which
will form part of the accounting structure and



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
which will enable management to properly
project income, expenses and investment and
control costs and promote efficiency.
(d)  A system of financing the operations of T&T
which employs the use of revolving funds,
working capital funds or such other desirable
financing techniques as are appropriate or
useful to commercial type operations undertaken
by a government owned administration.
(e) A financial system for ensuring that the debts
of T&T including foreign currency commitments
are properly serviced.
(f) The present audit arrangements and any change
or improvement which may be desirable in order
to expedite completion of audits and ensure
that these are adequate for the purposes of
Government and T&T. Consideration should be
given to the setting-up of an internal audit
section to supplement the work of the main
auditors.
Item 3: A review of the relationship between T&T and TIP
directed towards the introduction of fully commercial re-
lations between the two organizations, which will allow
accurate costing of equipment produced by TIP and comparison
with prices offered in international tenders. Consideration
should be given to the shared facilities such as EPIC, the
Research Branch, Training Center, etc.; investments made by
T&T free of interest payments by TIP, and advances against
manufacture; terms of payment, and rebates made by TIP to
T&T; procurement of supplies by TIP. To assist in the com-
parison between TIP costs and prices offered in international
tenders the accounting framework used by TIP should make it
possible to distinguish for each item produced, between the
cost of domestically procured inputs, the direct labor cost,
the capital charges on machinery and equipment, the indirect
taxes, and the foreign exchange cost of imported inputs.
This will also apply to any other factories presently sponsored
by T&T.
The changes required under Items 1 to 3 are to be implemented
in accordance with the timetable agreed between Government and the
Association during the credit negotiations, and so they will be given
priority consideration by the Consultant. Consideration will also be
given to the following items:
Item 4: Review of the organization within the Department
and the responsibilities of T&T headquarters as against
those of the sectional offices and the Regions - particularly



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
definition of internal responsibilities, provision
of proper financial controls, devolution of authority,
introduction of efficient business procedures and
means of providing more effective channels of communi-
cation with customers.
Item 5: Review of T&T's personnel resources and commit-
ments: personnel policies and procedures; sources of
recruitment and supply; education and training facilities;
qualifications for employment; selection and in-service
training; performance evaluation, promotion and motivation;
incentives; and effective utilization of staff. Consider-
ation will be given to the question as to whether continued
operation within the civil service structure leaves room
for sufficient flexibility in personnel policies for the
most effective operation of T&T as a business enterprise.
Item 6: Development of procedures for ensuring a regular
flow of up-to-date financial and statistical statements to
management which would enable it to keep continuously in-
formed concerning the status of the enterprise and provide
sufficient detail to enable it to analyze operating results
and trends and to identify responsibilities.
Item 7: A review of the planning procedures of the T&T
Department, covering both overall policies and detailed
responsibilities. Consideration should be given especial-
ly to arrangements which will provide more flexibility
and continuity in planning than now exist, methods of de-
ciding priorities where all demand cannot be met and
procedures for the regular utilization of cost-returns and
present value studies, and arrangements for the execution
of the development programs and reporting on project-
progress. Consideration should be given to the values which
should be attached to the various economic factors used in
telecommunications planning: interest rate, foreign exchange
rate, depreciation rates and maintenance rates, etc.
Item 8: Review of present procedures for collecting and
collating technical statistics for the services provided
and their performance. Preparation of a list of statistics
which should be collected to assist in planning, indicating
the frequency with which they should be gathered and the
areal basis on which they should be assembled. Adminis-
trative organization for providing a regular, up-to-date
and accurate statistical service.
Item 9: An examination of the procurement procedures and
responsibilities with any recommendations for streamlining
and irproving those arrangements.



ANIEX 5
Page 4 of 5
Item 10: An examination of the present procedures for
provision of T&T's buildings with any recommendations
for improved arrangements.
Item 11: The policy and methods utilized in appraising
or determining the values of fixed assets and appropriate
depreciation rates for the assets owned by T&T.
Item 12: The basis of the present rate structure and a
recommendation for the foundation upon which future rates
will be established including the criteria to be employed,
such as the application of cost-related tariffs and the
marginal cost of providing individual services or such
other criteria as the Consultant may consider appropriate;
attention should be given to the special rationing role
which prices may need to perform for individual services
which are in particularly short supply. Special attention
should also be given to rates to be charged for services
provided to government ,departments and agencies and to
the prices at which PBXs and teleprinters are provided by
T&T and TIP.
Item 13: The problems of recruiting and training account-
ing staff in order to ensure that the provisions of the new
accounting system can operate efficiently and that management
will be provided with adequate support at senior level in
the financial and business sections of the administration.
Item 14: The introduction of a Pension Fund or properly
amortized pension provisions in accordance with terms and
conditions applicable to Government employees.
Item 15: The introduction of computer facilities possibly
on a centralized basis or alternatively with separate
computers located in East and West Pakistan should be con-
sidered in relation to the methods to be applied in billing
and accounting, collection and collation of statistics and
planning of future development and other appropriate appli-
cations.
The Consultant should recommend a timetable for implementation
of any reorganization measures proposed as a result of studies under
Items h to 15.
Early contact should be established, and full coordination
arranged, wlith the German team which is being provided through German
aid to examine budgetary procedures and account headings, and their
recommendations should be taken into consideration during the course
of the study.
January 21, 1969



PAKISTAN
INTRODUCTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING SYSTEM AND RELATEDO REOlRGANIZATION TIMETABLE
SHOW-ING THE MAIN ACTIONS 170 BE TAKEN BY T&T
(FunctionB which depend on the termination of other functions are shown in the same signs)
1968 1969                                 1970                                 1971                                  1972               2/
T-P M         A M J J A SON D             7M       A M J J A SON D             TM       A MJ J A SON DT7M A M i -
1.   Correspondence with and screening
of possible consultants                             ----
2.   Recommendation for appointment of
consultants to Hank and Bank ex-
presses its viewas
3.   Discussions with consultanta, con-
tracting, signing, briefing
4.   Consultant's field research and
desk studies
5.   Production of advance report on TIP
and main organization proposals 1/
6.   Main organizational provisions studied
by Government and Association approved
by Government
7.   Writing and editing of consultant's
final reports-----
8.   Final report studied by Government
and Association - decisions taken
on implementation---
9.   Recommendations regarding account-.
ing and organization are implemented-----------------------------------
10. Choice of Chief Finance Officer
(working with Chief Executive of T&T)
and top level accountants for modern
accounting system
11. Chief Finiance Officer and top level
accountAnts orientation period work-
ing with consultants
12. Recruitment and training of other
accountants                                                                                  ////////////////////////////////////
0
NOTE 1/T&T are on their own initiative going ahead
with the commercial separation of TIP & T&T
and anticipate coTapleting this by 30th
September 1969.
?/The aonthi indications are the ends of the
months i-n question.
January 21, 1969



ANMEX 6
Pafe 1 of 2
PAKISTAN TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONlE DEPARTI4ENT
Training Requirements & Facilities
Telecommunications training facilities for the T&T Department
crf Pakistan are provided by means of a Staff College located at Haripur,
three Regional Training Schools located at Karachi, Lahore and Dacca and
nine Divisional Training Schools, three of which are located in each region.
Training requirements must, of necessity, be related to the edu-
cational level reached by new recruits and existing staff. Recruitment of
graduates for specialist type appointment as Assistant Engineers has pre-
sented considerable difficulty due to the low output of the present Elec-
trical Engineering (Electronics Faculty) in Lahore and the relatively low
salaries offered under the Government salary structure. As a result of
this nearly all Assistant Engineering positions are at present filled by
promotion of Supervisors who have only reached an intermediate level in
their academic education. The Department also faces difficulty within
the Government wage structure in obtaining suitable staff for appointment
to technician positions. These factors account for the need for relatively
long initial courses to make good eortain of the educational deficiernies.
The cr.urses in question range from one- to tlio years !.n duration.
The Staff College at Harinur, which now concentrates on the
training of supervising staff, can accommodate upwards of 350 students
continuously. NTB in their staff forecasts have estimated requirements
for additional technical supervising staff, i.e. Divisional Engineers,
Assistant Engineers and Supervisors, over the next five years as 1,200.
T&T, estimate for the same period is 1,500. The mission considered, how-
ever, that there should be some improvement in the efficiency of the staff
in question and that a rate of growth of 15% per annum as related to a
station growth of 19% per annum, would not be unreasonable. Calculation
on the 15% figure and related to the existing supervising staff strength
shows requirements of additional technical supervising staff starting in
the year 1968/69 to be as follows: 136, 157, 181, 209, 239, total 922 for
the five-year neriod. A further calculation related to these figures and
the appropriate course lengths shows the number of places required each
year to be as follows:
1968-69   1969-70   1970-71    1971-72   1972-73
252       293       334        386       44
There will also be a requirement for refresher courses for existing staff
and in the light of all these requirements T&T have decided and are in
process of transferring all technician training to the three regional train-
ing schools. This is considered to be a sensible provision in order to free
the capacity of the Staff College to meet supervising staff training re-
quirements. There is also a proposal to extend the Staff College facilities
related to the introduction of a degree course. VJhile the mission felt
this needed further consideration, as commented on later in this annex,



AJ\iiE 6
Page 2 of 2
there is an anparent justification for the extension of the Staff College
by not later than 1971 if normal requirements for the training of super-
vising staff are to be met.
ITU assistance consisting of 16 man years of instructors' time
and 16 fellowships for Pakistani instructors have been made available to
improve instructional standards at the Staff College. The ITU project
leader is due to arrive in September 1968. The Staff College is well
equipped although minor additions in the form of more modern types of
equipment as used in Pakistan are perhaps desirable. The College gives
an impression of being a well run and efficient organization.
The transfer of all technician training to the regional schools
presents a problem in school capacity, particularly as related to the length
of the technician initial training course which is one and a half years.
In general course requirements for non-gazetted staff are based on known
plant provisions and the appropriate staff requirements as related to work
unit figures with an appropriate allowance for wastage and also for refresher
training. The Regional Training Schools have together over recent years
provided an average of 1,400 man courses per annum. With the assumption
of responsibility for the longer technician training courses the number
of man courses will, it is estimated by T&T, fall to about 1,000. Based
on these figures if the present level of training is to be maintained an
increase in regional school capacity of some 40,, is justified.  NTB's cal-
culations of additional staff requirements under the development program
for the grades of staffs to be trained at the regional schools give an
increase of 18% per annum over the next five years which approximates to
the station growth of 19% per annum. The mission itself felt that the
increase should be held to not more than 10% as a result of improved train-
ing and productivity. However, an increase in training school capacity
of 50% for additional staff requirements over the next five years appears
reasonable and if a further allowance of 40% is made for commitments taken
over from the Staff College, it is obvious that considerable expansion of
facilities is necessary. T&T are proceeding with expansion plans for the
three existing regional training schools including provision of a special
microwave training section and they also propose with German aid to build
new regional training schools at Khulna, Peshawar and Rohri.   These pro-
posals which involve an expenditure of PRs 21 million appear adequate to
meet requirements. NTB's estimates of additional telephone operators and
linemen (craftsmen) allow for an increase of only bg per annum due to the
change in techniques and it would appear that no major extension of divi-
sional training centers is necessary.
An apnlication has separately been made to USAID for assistance
in providing facilities for the introduction of a degree course in tele-
communications engineering at the telecommunications Staff College. This
proposal has yet to be approved. Although T&T are to be complimented for
their attempts to overcome the deficiency in educational standards of staff
they recruit for supervising positions, the mission itself felt that it
would probably be preferable and certainly more efficient if the univers-
ity training requirement of university graduates can be met by providing
facilities adequate to meet the total requirements of the economy in the
well established universities at Lahore and Dacca.
January 21, 1969



PAKISTAN T i T
PRO FORMA BALANCE SHEET 1964/65 - 1974/75
(in million PRs)
Adjusted Actuals                                                    Projections
Fiscal Year Ending June 30       1965        1966        1967        1966        1969        1970        1971         1972        1973        1974        1975
(pre=minary)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Fixed assets in operation                  599.8       671.8       781.1        909.6    1,037.9     1,262.2      1,465.3     1,683.3     1,956.5     2,254.7     2,552.9
Less: Depreciation reserve                  159.1       190.9       227.2       269.5       318.2       375.7       443.9       522.6       613.6       718.9       839.1
Net fixed assets in operation              1717           7        7"          EI:      I-7    T     -    37I67I              T7   7      T-- U7.     1, 32 .    1 T;,535 
Work in progress                            105.9       118.6      137.9        160.5       190.7       222.7       258.6       297.0       345.3       397.9       450.5
Total Net Fixed Assets               546.6       599.5       691.8       800.6       910.4     1,109.2     1,280.0      1,457.7     1,688.2     1,933.7     2,164.3
Investments and advances to T.I.P.
and other factories                            18.6       32.9        42.4         56.1        77.7       112.8       128.9       189.4        209.7      235.0       266.2
Current Assets
Cash                                          -          -            -           -           -           -           -          22.5         15.2       22.1        31.2
Customers accounts receivable                12.1 1/     22.8        29.8        29.0        25.2        29.5        35.3        40.7         47.3       54.5        62.2
Inventories:  Stores                        33.0        41.0        38.1         37.6       43.2        52.2         60.6        69.6         78.6       88.8       100.3
Workshops                       3.2        4.7          6.6         o.4         o.5         0.6         0.7         0.8          0.9        1.0         1.1
Total Current Assets                  48.3        68.5        74.5        67.0        68.9         82.3        95.6       133.6        1k2.0      166.4       194.8
Less current liabilities
Commercial Bank Credit                            -           -           -                 -           -           -           -           30.0       70.0         90,0
Accounts payable                            4.5         5.5         5.7         6.1         6.3         7.6         8.8        10.1         1.4        12.9         14.6
Current maturities                         1.5         2.3          2.9         4.3         8.0         9.0        11.3        17.0         17.6       18.o        25.0
6.0                     6.69       t3.1                                20.1        27.1          59.0      10          129.
Net current assets less ct. liabillties     42.3         60.7        65.9        56.6        54.6        65.7        75.5       106.5         83.0       65.5         65.2
Total Assets                                    607.5       693.1       800.1       913.3     1,042.7     17.753.6                             1,980.9    2,234.2      2,95.7
LIABILITIES
Equity
Central Budget Contributions                187.1       179.1       178.5       157.3       113.4       105.7        61.8
Retained Earnings                           353.4       424.3       502.7       595.8       717.3       856.k     1,011.9
Total Equity                          50.5        603.4      681.2        753.1       630.7       962.1     1,073.7     1,263.3      1,401.0    1,555.4      1,725.0
Long term Debt in Foreign Exchange
(exluding current maturities)                 67.0        89.7       118.9       160.2       212.0       325.6        410.7       490.3        579.9      678.8       770.7
Total Liabilities                               607.5       693.1       800.1       913.3     1,042.7     1,287.      1,485.4     1,753.6       1,980.9    2,235.      2,495.7      0
Debt equity ratio                                11:89       13:87       15:55       18:82       20:80       25:75       25:72       25:72       29:71        30:70       31:69
1/ Only recoverable outstanding dues are included.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
PANISTAN T & T
Notes and Assumptions on the Balance Sheet
1.        Fixed Assets
At the time of independence, Pakistan received the telecommunication
installations on its territory at a value of FRs33.7 million. Total gross
assets represent these initial assets plus subsequent annual capital develop-
ment expenditures ("capital outlay"). Direct and overhead costs are included
in the accumulated capital expenditures; gross fixed assets are somewhat
underestimated since T & T's account "capital outlay" does not include the
following items:
a) The cost of residential buildings constructed during
the Korean war boom.
b) Part of the Cento link cost.
c) Some equipment financed from R & R fund.
d) Minor works (at present chargeable to current expenditures).
e) Interest on capital during construction.
f) Adjustment for the devaluation of 1955.
The figures used here are sufficiently accurate for use in Pro Forma Balance
Sheet and the valuation should not significantly affect the financial analysis
but the value of assets should be exactly assessed by the consultants. At
present no asset is insured, not even vehicles. The capital expenditure
projected for the fiscal years (FY) 1969-1972 reflect a detailed estimate,
while for IFY 1973-1975 expenditures are proportionate to the increase of
installed telephone sets, assurming a total investment (including long dis-
tance facilities) per telephone added of PRs5,846.- which is the estimated
average over the period FY 1965-1972. The growth of installed telephone
sets was assumed to come down to 13% by FY 1975. This is the long term
growth rate as recommended by NTB. The number of telephonesinstalled is
shown in Annex 8 on page 1
2.        Work in Progress
T & T's accounts do not provide any information on this item. The
mission estimated work-in-progress for the first three years of the Third
Plan at about 15%O of accumulated capital outlay. This percentage was applied
for all past and future years.



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
3.        Depreciation
Beginning with FY 1948 a composite depreciation rate of 5% was
calculated on the annual average of gross fixed assets in operation, while
the average contributions to the R & R fund amounted to about 4O. For
FY 1965, the first year appearing in the balance sheet, the accumulated
depreciation represented 22.5% of accumulated gross fixed assets, while the
balance of the R & R fund showed at the same time 12.7% of the gross fixed
assets, and total credits to the R & R fund(before payments for replacements)
to about 18651%.
4.        Investments and Advances to T.I.P. and other Factories
These represent T & T's stocks of the telephone factory in Haripur,
Dacca, Khulna and Islamabad and advances. The increase of investments in
all four factories up to FY 1972 shows planned expenditures, while the
further expansion is tentative.
a) Advances to T.I.P.
Advances for imports of raw material are at present paid out
of Consolidated Government Funds and do not appear in T & T's
accounts, while advances for specifically approved orders are
charged directly under the corresponding capital head in T & T's
accounts. The advances are therefore not shown separately in
the balance sheet up to FY 1971. Beginning with FY 1972, the
advances are included under investments    assuming that at
the latest by that time the relations between T & T anAi T.I.P.
will be put on a proper cormmercial basis.   The projected in-
crease is proportionate to T a T's purchases from T.I.P.
b) Advances to other Factories
These advances starting in 1970 are expected to be accounted
for properly from the very beginning of the new factories'
operations. At present there are no exact estimates of their
working capital needs.
5.        Cash
At present T & T does not have any cash of its own. It is
assumed that by FY 1972 the Department will have an integrated accounting
system and cash of its own.
6.        Customers Accounts Receivable
Total outstanding dues as of FY 1968 are roughly PRs 20 million
higher than shown in the balance sheet, but since some debts are old, and



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
therefore uncollectable, T & T plans to write them off. Beginning with
FY 1969 it is assumned that customers accounts receivable will amount to
one month average billings.
7.        Investment in CO01SAT
Pakistan's participation in the Communication Satellite Corpora-
tion is a prerequisite for the space link to be in operation in about two
years.
8.        Inventories
Inventories-wqorkshops show only the value of work in progress in
workshops, while finished products and raw material are included under
stores. The workshop accounts before FY 1968 are inflated due to belated
book transfers to the receiving accounts. Beginning with FY 1969 stores
increase proportionate to investments in fixed assets.
9.        Accounts Payable
T & T doesn't have any central records of accounts payable, but
accounts payable are not thought to be important because according to the
"Initial Account Code" Volume II, Article 102, all liabilities should be
paid on the last day of the fiscal year.  Otherwise expenditures carnnot be
charged to the corresponding year's budget grant. For the purpose of this
statement, it was assumed that one month material supply of 1/12 of the
annual store debits including the budget year 1968/69 were payable; after-
wards the increase is proportionate to fixed assets. Customers initial
deposits (PRs 50.- per subscriber) are not shown in the balance sheet
because the balance of the fund could not be established by T & T. At
present the fund is handled by the Finance Ministry.
10.       Equity
Capital is allocated to the Department annually under the Central
Government Budget, while on the other hand the Department pays its depreci-
ation provision and its surplus into funds maintained in the I'L`nist-ry of
Finance. The balance of the Central Budget Contributions as of FJ. 1965
amounting to PRs 187.1 million wjas arrived at by deducting from total capital
outlay, the part which could have been financed with T & T's net contribution
to the R & R Fund and the Surplus Fund. This difference between capital
outlay and fund contributions amounting to PRs 255.6 million is considered
Government's gross contribution, from which the outstianding foreign exchange
loans of PRs 68.5 million have to be deducted to arrive at the Central
Budget's own contribution of FRs 187.1 million.



ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 5
js mill.
T & T's accumulated contributions to the Surplus Fund       376.9
T & T's accumulated net contributions to the R & R Fund      89.8
T & T's total contribution                                  bB=-
T & T's total capital outlay till June 1965                 724.3
Difference of                                           255.6
financed by foreign exchange loans                       68.5
financed by Central Budget Contributions                187.1
In the Pro Forma Balance Sheet FY 1965, T & T's contribution to the Surplus
and R & R Funds are recorded as Retained Earnings.   In the years following
FY 1965 the net profits are added to this account while the account Central
Budget Contributions is the balancing item till FY 1972, when a modern
accounting system is introduced.
11.       Long Term Debt in Foreign Exchange
In T & T's accounts, foreign exchange loans assumed by the Government
to import telecommunication material form part of Central 3udget Contri-
butions. The mission made an effort to put together various parts and pieces
making up T & T 's foreign exchange obligations. T & T does not in fact have
to service long term loans any more than Budget Contributions, but for the
purpose of the financial statements it is assumed that T & T does have to.
The debt projections for FY 1969-1972 are based on a detailed estimate of
foreign exchange needs, while for the FY 1973-1975 it was assumed that one
third of fixed capital expenditures would require long term foreign exchange
financing.
January 21, 1969



PAKISTAN T & T
PRO FORMA4 PROFIT & LOSS STATSMENT 1964/65 - 1974/75
(in million PRs)
Adjusted Actuals                                                Projec tions
Fiscal Year Ending June 30      1965       1966       1967 A1c969                       1970       1971        1972       1973        19Th       1975
ProlI-i~ary
REVENUE S
Telephone
Rentals: - flat rate                                13.4       14.3        14.9       16.3      18.9        21.2       23.3        25.7       27.7        28.7       29.3
- message rate                             16.5       18.7        20.7       22.9       35.9       44.5        51.8       66.9        80.9       96.7       113.9
Trunk and international calls plus
local calls at message rate                         83.9      115.3       132.1      156.0     190.3       227.0      268.3       318.7      369.1       424,1      479.2
Installation fee                                     2.3        2.1        1.5         5.8       9.6        11.0       12.4        15.1       15.1        16.5       16.5
Telegraph                                             36.8       38.4       39.7        42.7      44.4        46.1       48.0        48.9       49.9        50.9       51.9
Telex                                                  0.9        1.2        1.6         1.9       2.8         4.6        7.7        12.6       18.2        24.5       31.5
Non-collected revenues                               8.0       10.7         7.0
Total Revenues                               161.8      200.7       217.5      245.6     301.9       354.4      L11.5       487.9       560.9      641.4       722.3
EXPENSFS
Operational and administrative costs                  51.5       59.4        59.2       69.8      86.2       103.6      123.0       146.9      170.3       195.5      220.4
Maintenance and minor works                           22.6       23.8        28.0       24.5       29.5       35.2       41.6        49.4        57.2       65.7        74.2
Depreciation                                          27.5       31.8       36.3        42.3      48.7        57.5       68.2        78.7       91.0       105.3      120.2
Kxposes before contribution                  101.6      115.0       123.5      136.6      164.4      196.3       232.8      275.0       318.5      366.5       44.8
Proposed contribution to Government in lieu of taxes                                                                                            75.8        84.1        91,3
Bxpee after contribution                                                                                                                394.3      450.6       508.1
NET INCOME before interest                              60.2       85.7        94,.o     109.0     137.5       158.1      178.7        212.9     166.6       190.8      214.2
Less interest:  on Central Budget Contributions       10.4       11.0        10.7       10.1       8.0         6.6        5.0          -         -           -           -
on Foreign Exchage Loans                2.7        3.8        4.9        5.8        8.0       12.4        18.2        23.3       28.9        34.9       41.1
on Comercial Bank Credit                                                                                                                      1.5        3.5
Toal Interest                         13.1        14.8       15.6       15.9       16.0       19.0        23.2        23.3       28.9       36.4        44.6
NET PROFIT                                              47.1       70.9        78.4       93.1     121.5       139.1      155.5        189.6      137.7      154.        169.6
Rate base as defined in covenant                       421.2      479.2       538.1      620.9      707.1      835.2      992.1      1,134.6    1,301.9    1,496.9     1,689.8
Rate of Return according to proposed rate covenant       7.7%      11.1%       10.7%      11.0%      13.1%     1i3.%        12.2%       13.1%      12.8%     12.7%        12.7%   o
Operating ratio ( expenditures -  as percentage of
revenues)                                               63         57         57          56        54          55         57           56        57          57          57
Number of telephones (in 1,000)                        129        142         151        172        207        247        292          387        402        462         522
Average revenue per telephone                          962      1,135       1,167      1,169      1,230      1,230       1,218       1,229      1,226      1,225       1,224
Time interest covered by net income                      4.6        5.8        6.0         6.9       8.6         8.3        7.7          9.1       5.8         5.2         4.8
1/ Excluding proposed contribution in lieu of taxes.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
PAKISTAI2 T & T
Notes and Assumptions on the Profit and Loss Statement
1.        Revenues
Total revenaes minus noncollected revenues correspond to total
receipts, as shown in the budget. The breakdown of the revenues for past
years is estimated.   "Trunk and internaticnal calls   plus  local
calls at message rate" are the balancing item. Telephone revenues are
forecast to be proportionate to the increase of telephones installed at rates
effective as of July 1, 1968. Only the average increase of telephones
installed was considered for the purpose of calculating revenues.
Number of telephones installed as of June 30 of each year
(in 1,000)
1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973 1974 1975
Number         129   :1s2  151   172    207   247   292   347  2402 462 522
Increase in %       10.1   6.3  13.9  20.3  19.3   18.2  18.8  15.8 14.9 13.0
Forecast revenues from telegraph services are expected to increase 4% thrcugh
June 1971 and 2% afterwards.  Telex stations were projected to grow as
follows beginning with FY 1969: 250; 400; 700; 1,100; 1,500; 2,000; and
2,500. The assumed average income per station is PRs l1,000 per year. Not
included in the revenues are the income from investment and advances to
T.I.P. and other factories. These charges would have an effect on the cost
of goods supplied by these factories which are difficult to assess at present
and which have not been considered in the assessment of T & T's capital
outlays.
2.        Expenditures
Expenditures as they appear in the budget accounts have been
consolidated, and expenditures chargeable to capital account, ("credits to
working expenses") deducted from total expenditures. Otherjise total
expenditures, except for depreciation and interests are identical with
those shown in the budget. For the projections it was assumed that expenses
would increase proportionate to telephones installed. Capitalized expendi-
tures, which accounted for roughly 15% of total expenditures in the past,
are expected to continue at this percentage. (The three year average 1965-
1968, amounting to PRsl4 million served as basis for the projections of
capital; zed expenditures).



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
An interest rate of 6% was calculated on the average outstanding
annual balance of the Central Budget Contributions until FY 1972.    For the
following years it was assumed that T & T has to pay the Government a 6%
contribution on the whole equity base at the beginning of the year.    For
the commercial bank loan the recently effective bank rate of 5% was applied iith
the assumption that the loan would be borrowed at the end of the fiscal year.
On long term foreign exchange loans, for which the disbursement
schedule was known, the interest rate actually charged by the foreign
creditor was applied, and for all other loans an -:nteres- rate of 6% on the
average outstanding balance.   For the relending of the IDA credit by
Government to T & T an interest rate of 6% has been applied and an
amortization period of 24 years including a grace period of 4 years.



Rate of Return Covenant Applied for the Years 1964/65 - 1974/75
(PRs Millions)
Fiscal Year Ending June     1965  1966   1967   1968  1969   1970  1971    1972     1973    1974     1975
Average Net Plant in
Service                 405.0 460.8 517.4 597.0 679.9 803.1     953.9 1,091.0  1,251.8  1,439.3 1,624.8
WJorking Capital
4% Assumed               16.2   18.4  20.7   23.9  27.2   32.1  38.2     43.6    50.1     57.6    65.0
Total capital base    421.2 479.2 538.1 620.9 707.1 835.2    992.1 1,134.6 1,301.9 1,496.9 1,689.8
Net Profit (before int.
and contribution)     60.2   85.7  94.0 109.0 137.5 158.1 178.7      212.9   242.4    274.9   307.5
Equity at beginning of year 462.6 540.5 603.4 681.2  753.1 830.7 962.1 1,073.7 1,263.3    1,401.0 1,555.4
6% Contribution to Govt.
calculated on equity at
beginning of year        27.8   32.4  36.2   40.9  45.2   49.8  57.7     64.4    75.8     84.1    93.3
iet Profit (used for
covenant)                32.4   53.3  57.8   68.1  92.3 108.3 121.0     148.5   166.6   193.8    214.2
Rate of Return in %    7.7   11.1  10.7   11.0   13.1  13.0   12.2    13.1    12.8     12.7    12.7
J.1nuary 21, 196
(D 



PAKISTAN T & T
PRO FORMA SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS 1964/65 - 1974/75
(in million PRs)
Fiscal Year Ending June 30      1965        1966        1967       1968        1969        1970       1971        1972        1973        1974       1975
SOURCE6 OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Aet income (before interest)                       60.2       85.7        94.0       109.0      137.5       158.1       178.7       212.9      166.6       190.8       214.2
Depreciation                                       27.5        31.8       36.3        42.3       48.7        57.5        68.2        78.7        91.C      1o5.3       120.2
Total internal cash generation                     87.7      117.5       130.3       151.3      186.2       215.6       246.9       291.6      257.6       296.1       334.4
Borrowing
Committed bilateral foreign exchange loans         22.0       25.0        32.1        45.6       18.0        30.5         5.0         0.6        -           -           _
Secured, under negotiation or in prospect           -           -          -           -          32.1       51.3        75.7        86.0         -          -           -
IDA Credit                                          _           _           _          _           9.7        40.8       15.7        10.0         -           -          -
Future loans and credits in foreign exchange        --                                                        -           -           -         107.2      116.9       116.9
Commercial bank credit                              -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -          30.0       40.0        20.0
Total borrowing                                    22.0        25.0       32.1        45.6        59.8      122.6        96.4        96.6       137.2      156.9       136.9
Increase in accounts payable                          1.3        1.0         0.2         0.4        0.2         1,3         1.2         1.3        1.3         1.5         1.7
Total Sources                                     111.0      1143.5      162.6       197.3       246.2      339.5       344.5       389.5       396.1      454.5       473.0
APPLICATIONS
Capital construction                                116.3        84.7      128.6       151.1       158.5      256.3       239.0       256.4       321.5       350.8      350.8
Investments and Advances                              -         114.3        9.5        13.7        21.6       35.1        16.1        60.5        20.3       25.3        31.2
Inventories : in Stores                               9.9         8.o       (2.9)       (0.5)        5.6        9.0         8.4         9.0         9.0       10.2        11.5
in Workshops                            2.3         1.5        1.9        (6.2)        0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1        0.1
Outstanding dues                                      8.1        10.7        7.0        (0.8)       (3.8)       4.3        14.8         6.4         6.6         7.2        7.7
Debt service
Amortization of foreign exchange loans              0.9        1.5         2.3         2.9         4.3        8.0         9.0        11.3        17.0       17.6        18.0
Interest on foreign exchange loans                  2.7        3.8         4.9         5.8         8.0       12.4        18.2        23.3        28.9        38.9        41.1
Interest on central budget contributions           10.4       11.0        10.7        10.1         8.0        6.6         5.o         -           -           -          -
Interest on commercial bank credit                  -           -          -           -           _          -           -           -           -           1.5        3.5
Total debt service                                 14.0        16.3       17.9        18.8        20.3        27.0       32.2        34.6        45.9        54.0        62.6
Flow to and from central budget                     (39.6)        8.,        o.6        21.2        43.9         7.7       43.9         -           -           -           -
Change in cash positica                               -                                  -           -           -          -          22.5        (7.3)        6.9         9.1
Total applications                                111.0       143.5      162.6       197.3       246.2       339.5      344,5       389.5       396.1       454.5       473.0      >4
___                                  ___                               _ __         ___          -       '0
Times debt service covered by internal
cash generation                                       6.3         7.2        7.3         8.0         9.2         8.0         7.7        8.4         5.6         5.5        5.3
January 21, 1969



PAKISTAN ThT
REVENUE FORECAST
(in 1,000 PRs)
AdJ.5ted_Actuals                                                Forecast   ____
Fiscal year ending      i2L        196           = 19                 1969        1970        19,F1  r1972            _1_9
1, Telephone
(20.3%)     (19.3%)    (18.2%)     (18.8%)     (15.8%)     (14.9%)    (13.0%)
Number of Telephones: Total                         129,000    DJ42,000    151,000     172,000    207,000     247,000     292,000     347,000    402,000 D   462,000     522,000
At message ratz              8o,000      90,000      98,000    110,0(X     136,000     169,000    206,000     252,000     302,000     360,000    418,000
t At flat rate                  49,000     52,000      53,000      62,000      71,000      78,000     86,ooo      95,000     100,000     102,000   104,000
Increase in Nuber of
Telephones:  Total                      + 14,000    + 13,000   +  9,000    + 21,000    + 35,000   + 40,000    + 45,000    + 55,000    + 55,000   + 60,000    + 60,000
At message rate            + 10,000    + 10,000   +  8,000    + 12,000    + 26,000   + 33,000    + 37,000    + 46,Coo    + 50,000   + 58,000    - 58,oo0
At flat rate               + 4,000     + 3,000    + 1,000     + 9,000     + 9,000    + 7,000     +  8,000    +9,000      +5,000     +2,00       +  2,000
a)Installation fee
(at PRs25O per set
after 67/68; 150 before)
plus a provision of 10% for otber
installations                                         2,310      2,1145      1,485       5,775      9,625      11,000      12,375      15,125     15,120      16,500      16,500
b)Rent
aa) Flat rate: Annual rent PRs 284/1                 13,384     14,342      14,910     16,330      18,886      21,158      23,288     25,702      27,690      28,684      29,252
bb) Message rate: Aenual rent PRs 292/2              16,500     18,700      20,680      22,880     35,916      44,530      51,830     66,868      80,884      96,652     113,880
(220.- before)
32,194      35,187     37,075      44,985      64,427     76,688      87,493     107,695     123,694     141,836    159,632
c)Trunk Calls, International Calls ard
Local Calls (at message rate) increase
proportionate to increase of installed
telephones                                            83,893    115,348     132,147     155,988    190,270     226,992     268,304     318,745    369,106     424,103     479,240
2. Telegraph (4% increase till 1969/70; 2%
afterwards)                                           36,778     38,429      39,743      42,660      44,366     46,1ho      47,985      48,944      49,923     50,921      51,939
Telex (assmed average earnings
of PRs 114,000 per set)/3                                882      1,246       1,568       1,918       2,800     14,550       7,700      12,6        18,200     24,500      31,500
153,7h7    190,210     210,533     2145,551    301,860    354,370     411,482     487,984     560,923     641,360    722,311
1/ Calculation of flat rate: only 50% of newly
installed sets during the year are considered,
added to former years balance and multiplied by
the rate of 284 .                                      45+2X2814  49+1.5X284  52+0.5X284  53+4.5X284  62+4.5X284  71+3.5X284  78+LX284   86+14.51284  95+2.51284  l00flX284  102+11284
2/ Calculation of message rate: Only 50% of
sets installed during the current year are con-
sidered  in calculation                                 70+5X220   80+5X220    90+4X220    98+61220   110+131292  136+16.5X292 169+18.51292 206+23X292 252+251292 302+291292  360+301292
3/ Telex: Average charges per set Rs.12,000;
Rental 2,000 (total 1h,000); Average
number of revenue earning sets:                        63          89         112         137         200         325        550         900         1,300       1,750       2,250
Sets at beginning and end of period:                    (78)        (100)       (125)      (150)       (250)       (D0O)       (700)      (1,100)       (1,500)     (2,000)     (2,500)
(for 1963/64, 149 sets were assumed)
October 30, 19613



ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN T & T
LONG-TERM FOREIGN EXCHkNGE LOANS
(in millione of PRS)
Outstanding
Rate of       Repayment   Period      Balance
No.       Name of Loan       Principal      Interest        From       To         June 30, 68
West Germany
1.       F-45                 4.023          6-3/4%      30-11-65   31-5-76       2.947
2.       AL-52               29.760          3%          31-12-69   31-12-82    29.760
3.       AL-208              15.840          3%         31-12-72    30- 6-90    15.840
4.       F-6                 12.360          6k$         11- 4-64   11-10-73      7.798
5.       AL-319              37.163          3%          30- 6-74   31-12-91    20.510
6.       AL-138              16.660          33          31-12-71   30- 6-79    16.660
7.       Siemens Credit       7.877         6%          24- 8-68    24- 8-77     7.877
Jpan
8.       1st Yen Credit      10.245          6%          1- 5-67    1-11-76      8.640
9.       2nd Yen Credit       2.380         6%           1- 5-68    1-11-77      2.255
10.       3rd Yen Credit       9.044         594           1- 2-69   1- 8-78      9.0W4
11.       4th Yen Credit      15.200          54%         1- 2-70    1- 8-82     15.200
12.       Addl. 4th Yen
Credit               5.779          5'4          1- 2-70    1- 8-82      5.779
13.       5th Yen Credit       0.952                      1- 8-71    1- 2-84      0.290
14.       Addl. 5th Yen
Credit               4.760         514           1- 8-71    1- 2-8lJ       -
15.       6th Yen Credit      11.472         5Au%          1- 8-72   1- 2-85
Switzerland
16.       Swiss Credit         0.531         fi.           1- 7-67  30- 6-77      0.426
United Kingdom
17.       5th U.K. Credit      1.013          3           31-10-68   31-10-86     1.013
18.       12th U.K. Credit     3.822          Free        30- 4-73   31-10-90      3.822
Netherlands
19.       Dutch Credit
64-65                3.808          3%           1-10-73    1-10-92      3.808
20.       Dutch Credit
65-66                3.808          54           1- 1-73    1- 1-92      3.808
U.S. AID LOAN
21.       DL-53                3.202          As%         11-11-75   11- 5-2005    3.202
22.          071              22.372          39         25-12-75   30- 6-2005    1.777
23.          096               1.904          3'         30- 6-77   30- 6-2007    1.904
24.          115               0.995          Yf%         30- 6-77  30- 6-2007    0.995
25.          117               1.180          3ka        30- 6-77   30- 6-2007    1.180
Total outstanding balance                                                       164.535
Since T & T does not have financial autonomy, it does not contract, control and service its foreign
exchange loans. Many of the loans listed above were commodity loans, from which T & T got a share.
Included are only creditsand loans for w.hich disbursements had been made at the time of the mission's
stay in Pakistan. The chart was constructed with information available within T & T.
October 30, 1968



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN T & T
Representative Tariffs as of
July 1, 1968
Rates before      Rates as of
July 1, 1968      July 1, 1968
in PRs            in PRs
1. Telephone
A) Installation fee per telephone or
per extension                                      150.00            250.00
B)  Line rent per month   1/
a) Flat rate connections 2/ up to three miles
from exchange - exchange capacity up
to 100 lines                 24.00              24.00
- exchange capacity more
than 100 lines               35.00              35.00
b) Message rate connections up to four miles
from exchange - exchange capacity up
to 1000 lines                15.00              21.00
- exchange capacity
more than 1000 lines         19.00              25.00
C) Call charges -
a)  Local calls (unlimited time)                      .18               .18
1/ Befoire July 1, 1968, a reduced annual rate was applicable. Beginning with this
date, rents have to be paid on a monthly basis.
2/ No additional local call charge applicable.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
b) Long distance (per 3-minute duration)
STD
Distance              Manual               (rate in PRs)
(miles)           (rate in PRM)          pulse metered
Up to 15               0.40                   1.62
16 -  25               0.60                   1.62
26 -  50               0.80                   2.16
51 -  75               1.h0                   3.24
76 - 100               2.00                   4.32
101 - 200               3.00                   6.48
201 - 300               4.20                   8.10
301 - 500               6.20                  10.80
501 - 600                9.00                 10.80
above 600              10.00                  10.80
2.   Telegraph (domestic)
Ordinary               Express
First 8 words                 PRs 1.00                PRs 2.00
Each additional word          PRs 0.10                PRs 0.20
(Special rates for press and greetings telegrams)
3.   Telex
PRs
Rental for teleprinter machines                        1,800.00 p.a.
Rental for local telex line per mile
(within 3 miles radius of exchange)                      150.00 p.a.
Trunk call charge for 3 minutes
Karachi  -  Lahore                               4.50
Karachi  - Dacca                                 4.00
Lahore   - Dacca                                 8.50
October 30, 1968



PAKISTAN T & T DEP2RTMiIT "7 'LOB2ENT 960ROUA2  1965/56 - 1971/72
(Figures in Rs. millions, including overheads)
S T I M AT D                                              P ROJ B C T K D
i965/66        1966/67        i967/ 66          1968 /69                1969/ 70                1970/71                 1971' 72
TOTAL          TOTAL          TOTAL      LODCAL       FOREIGN     LOCAL       ?0RXlN      LOCAL       FOREIGN~    LOCAL,         FORLi(R
Local Telephone Networks
2nd Plan Projects                              19.86          30.16          29.40       9.08          5.08       1.35         1.00        ---
3rd Plan Projects                               1.7           20              25        47.00         26.00      60.00        31.00      68.00        3u.00      86.00           ____o
S.btotal                                           0713~2                       71790      Wm            7                       I=         E             n=bi
(No. of telephones added in year                 (13,000)       (9,000)        (21,000)           (35,000)                 (10,000)                (45,o00)                (55,10(,)
Tronks Switohine and Trunk Exbccasee
2nd Plan Projects                               2.20           1.50           2.81       0.6i          0.30        --                      -             -         -
3rd Plan - Trunk   Exchanges                     -              -             0.26       0.60          0.30       1.50         0.80       1.50         0.80       1. 50           C.60
NWT~D - S. P.                                                                o .60          0.30      0l40          1.00      0.60          0. L0      1.00           1.60
NrWSTD - W. P.                                                   - -  -8-                                           3.30      2.20          1.20       2.32           1.20
Subtotal                                                                        *TI;z       I7Et M                   3.75 93I-T             1737          *.7~      T1=.
Long& Ditance and Nubsidlary Netweork
Centro Miroae Systs                             1. 61         5.91            0.13               -           -                 --                       --
2nd Plan Projects    Trunk Routes              21.0           28.31          14.60       I.80o         2.50       0.40         0.50        ---
Ruwal. Linea                                              2.60      0.27          0.30       0.40         0.50 o 
3rd Plan Projectaz K.?. PG08                     -              -              -         0.20          0.15       1.6o         i.60       0.910         0.70      0. 51)          0.70
W.? P.  o                    -                                      0.20           0.15      2.40          2.00      1.70          1.30      1.70            1.30
VHSF Radio (Mobile)                                           -              -                            0.20          1.00      0.10          0.50        -              C_.51
open wire lines -W.P.                     -              -             2.50      1.10           1.50      3.80          3.80       3.80         3.20      4..20             .50
Open sire lines -   .?.                   -             -              0.80      0.40           0.40      1.60          1.10      1.40          1.00       1.60            1.00~
Lahore-Ithanewl Cable                     -            0.15            0.40      0.30           0.30      0.15          0.15      0.20          0.20        -
Karachi-Rawalpindi Microwave              -             -               -         -             0.10      1.00          0.15      2.00          7.00       7.10          100O
Lahoore-Rawalpindi Microvave              -             -               -        0.50           0.30      0.40          1.83      0.90          2.13        -
Peahaea-Ramalpindi Coaxiel                -             -               -        0.50           0.20      1.50          0.80      7.00)         5.50        -
Spur Coaxial    V .P.                     -             -               -         -              -        0.50          1.00      2.75          3.50       2.75            3.50
Hyderabad-Mirpwkhdas Kcrouve              -             -               -         -              -        0.50          1.00      0.37          0.13        -
Choittagong-Ekwisal-Dsulaa Microwave      -             -               -        1.35           2. 50     0.60          2.50      1.35          2.50        - 
3. P. Coaxial and Kicrowave               -             -               -         -              -        1.80          3.00      1.90          8.10       4.10           8.80
MultIplex Oacca-Chittagong  -       -               -       ~~~~~         ~~~~0.50  1.00  0.50     1.00       1.20          0.68       -
Channelling Karachl-Raimlpindi            -             -               -        2.00           2.00      3.00          3.00      2.00          2.00      1.00            2.1I0
S talOther Projects                            -              -             1.80      1.02.20                  1.00          1.00      1.00          1.00C      1.00C           1.00
Subtotal                75 77         37.7             M. n     TM             I-T~~~~~~1.60  2m~      2M.23      15-7         397. 1     777T77              -1
Inter-.ng and List.wertkonal
2nd Plan Prejecte                               1.6o           4.55           9.50      2.20           1.80       1.80         1.10       1.80         1.10        - 
Investnent in C0OM.AT                            --                           0.90       -             1.05        -           0.16        -            --
3rd Plan Projects. HF Radio                      --                                       -             -         2.30         2.00        -            --
SutilSatellite ihraund Stations-                                                      4.00                    1               .20      2.00:0                    --
Tel.gr.ph and Telex Kqulopent
2nd Plan Projects                               1.70           1.90           3.67      1.90           0.60        -            -          -- 
3rd Plan: West Pakistan                          -              -              ..        1.00          0.30      3.30          1.00      5.50          1.50       6.00            1.70
East Pakistan                         -             -               -        05             0.20      1.60         0.6o       2.60          1.10      3.60            1.60
Sobtotal                                                          1.0 90         T=31                      .0        1.90         1.6       8.10         *8r(       L- 7              3.30
Services to   onver-net CNartcents
2nd Plan Projects                              11.38           8.87          18.36      3.00           2.39      1.22          1.00        -            -          -
3rd Plan Projects                               0.0            2.00           2.        33                                     4 . 25    8.50          5.5        9.50            5.75
Tr.iainr, and Research
2nd Plan Proj-~to                               1.68           2.43           1.27      0.62           0.20      0. 10         0.10        -            -          - 
3rd  Plan Proi,.ctn a                            -             3.002                      .7           1.           S          1.        5.00          1.00       5.00o
Subtotal                                                                         3.        4 .37          1.15    (398176                  -TM                                      -T. c
2nd Plan   roJecta                              2. 50          2.50           2.50      1.70-                                   -          ---
3rd Plan Projects                               2.0            2.00           2.00      3.60           Oo           40         0.20      6.80          0.20       8.30           020,
Suitwtal                                           5360           Z                       -               67r 0.30  3-m0                    -Kr          -070-    8.j0717
Workshops and Stores
2nd Pl.n Projects                               0.50          1.50            1.70      0.02            -          -                       ---
3rd Plan Projects                                              0.20           2. 0      o6      0.6 0            2.20          1.10      1.60          0.80       1.60            c.80
Subtotal                                           0.50         11.7            -    60   -o-             0.30       =0          77T-      7:7           77 0         .              TF.b
Other Worke
Special Operational Works                       7.07          4.36             -         --                        --                     -
Minor Works                                     5.50           6.oo           6.50      3.5o           2.5D      1.00          3.00      1.60          3...l      5.20            1. U1
Office   Equipment                                      -               -                -             0.30                    0.10        -           0.20        -             0,.20
'iscellaneous Works                              -0.20                        0.30      0.20           0.10      0.20          0.10      0.30          0.20       0.30           0.20
SubtotalI                                             7          W5             _7           1              _ 87                  3.20      G.9          3T.60       5.507 tTo
TOTAL.                                             81.70         128.60         152.00      98.70         59.77    133.70        122.64    142.57         96.39     159.85           96.55
158.17                   256.31                  238.96                    256.10
Factory Investment
TIP, laripur                                   11.30          9.50            7.80      1.00            -        3.10           -        3.10           --
TIC, D.coa                                       -              -2.50                   6.oo            -        1.60           -         ---
Cable F-ctory, lOhulna-                                                       2.50      6.50            -        3.00           -        1.80--
Carrier  Facto-y,   salamebad                    -             --                       LO              -        1.00           -        5.00--
Subtotal                                          11.3-0        -Fo              rr       2To-                     1170          -Z        973
a!  Excluding Oerca   Credit of Re. 6 million equivalent for training schools.
October -'0, 1960



PA KIS Th
T&T DEPAJRThET
THID FIVE-TEAR DEVELOPMENT PLAN A?D INTEGRATED PROGRAM rE&KDOWN OF EXPESDI')TRE
(In mnillions of PRs)
REVISED
REVISED THdRD PLAN ALLCATIOdM tIBED 1966        THIRD PLAI              TIRD PLAN PROVlSIONS AS REVIEWED WITf T&T JINE 1968            MOTAI. INTEGRATED PLAN
Esnacted
Achievements V     Expenditwres   AcbO%fllts
and expendi-       anticipated    and expendi.      Estimated         Total estimated   1965-72
Carry forward I/   Additional                 tuar Juiy 1965     July 1966      ture July 1965    expenditur-       expenditure       as reviewed
rpm Second Plan    irovisions      Total      to J=. 301 1968    to June l97O   to Juae 1970      after J017 1970  wuder Plan         June 1S68     1968-72
1,   Nomber of Telephonea provided   3r        .       /   125.000  160000     41.CbO             75.000         16,000                              160,000           226O             ,000
1.  Comber of Telephones provided  ~   31/3                         31//-LO                           3 1      3        /A    03/                           3/i           3             3/
2.   Local telephone network             96   (30)      312  (117)    408  (147)Y        116   (51)         181  (63)   327  (    r)       1200  (33)       427   (147)    558  (1i1)    12   (1hO)
3.   Trunk switching and trunk            7    (2)       20     (8)    27   (10)           7    (2)       11   (6)        16    (8)           1I   (5)        32    (13)     32   (13)    25     (11)
exchanges
4.   Long-distance network               83   (31)      154   (100)   237  (131)          83   (30)       72  (40)       155   (70)          157  (74)       312   (145)    289   (145)  206    (115)
S.   Intersing and international         26   (12)       80    (58)   106   (70)          17    (8)       73  (49)        90   (57)           11   (7)       101    (64)    101    (64)   84     (56)
6.   Telegraphs and telex                10    (2)       10     (8)    20   (10)           7    (2)       11   (3)        18    (5)           -                       (5)    44    (11)   37      (9)
7.   Services for Goverment de-
partrents                         46   (12)       30    (11)    76   (23)          44   (11)       25  (11)        69   (22)           -     -          9     (22)    98    (33)  5     (22)
.    Trraining and researcb               7   (Z)        32   (14)     39   (16)          11    (1)       12   (3)        23    (4)          12    (2)        35     (6)     35     (6)   24      (5)
9.   Buildings and quarters               9    (-)       112    (-)    51    (-)          1S    (-)       1I   (-)        26    (-3          15    (-)        41      (-)    L1     (-)    26     (-)
10. Workshops and stores                  4    (1)       31     (2)    15    (3)           6    (1)        4   (1)        10    (2)           5    (2)        15      (4)    15     (4)     9     (3)
11. Other works .                                        58    (35)    58   (35)          30    (18)      14   (6)        44   (24)                           44    (24      63   (32)     33    (14)
TOTAL TELECONS               288   (92)      749  (353) 1,037   (445)         366  (124)      ,13  (182)      780  (306)         311  (124)     109,    (430)  1,276  (499)   910    (375)
12. Factories                            32   (11)        82   (3M)   114   (45)          37              35              72                 13               es              85           48
OVERALL TOTAL                320 (103)        831  (387) 1,151  (490)         403             L9              852                327            1,179           1,361          958
I/ Foreign expenditures in 'Carry forvard from Second Plan" interpolated fron overall figure of PRS92 ail1ion
2/ Component for foreign expenditure July 1965 to June 1P68 interpolated on average division basis
3/ Figures in brackets are the foreign cooponent also in rupees
October 30, 1968



AiNEX 15
Page 1 02 7
P: T,r... TELEGRAPHS AND T= .PHONE DEPARTILWiT
T&T DEPARTHENTIS EXPANSION PROGRAMI
UNDER THE INTEGRATED PLAN (1968-1972)
Outline of' the Items Included in the Program
1. Local TeleDhone Service
Past and forecast growth in the Pakistan telephone service is
shown in Chart 1. The growth rate has averaged 12.25%, compound for the
period since 1955 and 10.755% since 1960, but despite this the waiting list
is now in excess of 68,000 (the true number of waiters greatly exceeds
this figure).  The program as now proDosed allows for the connection of
175,000 telephones over the period July 1968 to June 1972.
1.1       Exchanfe Facilities
T&T have adopted as standard the use of Siemens designed elec-
tromechanical switching systems based on the step-by-step principle. Un-
til 1967 all installations utilized the Fl two-motion switch.  In 1968,
manufacture of the F6/E1D motor driven single motion switch commenced and
all ncw installations will utilize this type of switch.  The Fl switch will
remain in limited production for extension of existing exchanges and for
replacement purposes. As at July 1968, production of 35,000 lines of equip-
ment was assured under a contracted KFWI loan, and application had been made
to KF'RI for an additional loan which would allowz the manufacture of a further
hO,o0O lines of equipment. T&T were considering yet another application
to KFW for materials to manufacture 25,000 lines of equipment making a to-
tal of 100,000 lines which, with oresent spare capacity of 18,500 lines,
will meet estimated requirements up to 1-971.  IBRD or IDA financing of ma-
terials for manufacture of swJitching equipment from 1971 onwards is likely
to be reques-ted.  Nanual exchange requirements totalling 8,700 lines wi7ll
lara,ely be met by redeployment of equipment on conversion of existing ex-
changes to autoenatic working.  Additional new manual exchange equi-ment re-
quiremenrts will be met by local manufacture;  IDA financing is not involved.
1.2       Distribution Facilities
Due largely to the shortage of foreign exchange, a situation
exists w^:here 18,500 new su1bscribers exchange terminations have been in-
stalled but cable facilities are not available to connect the additional
subscribers. One of the first priorities for T&T is therefore to extend
its cable distribution system together with the interconnecting junction
cable networks.    Cable facilities to be provided allow for the connection
of 103,000 subscribers lines in multi-exchange areas and 37,000 lines in
other areas with a total pair mileage provision of 252,000.  The plans for



A1TrYE 19
Page 2 of 7
extension of the multi-exchange area junction networks allow for the pro-
vision of 120,000 pair miles mainly in loaded cables.  The Swedish expert
has estimated T&TTs capacit%r to install the subscribers distribution net-
work at 45,000 lines per annum starting in 1968/69. The mission felt that
this was over-optimistic but that it should be possible to install 35,000
telephones in 1968/69, 40,000 in 1969/70, 45,000 in 1970/71 and 55,000 in
1971/72. Foreign exchange requirements to meet the costs of purchase of
cable, drop wire, material for poles and fittings up to June 1971, when
the position will change with the introduction of local manufacture of cable
are estimated at PRs 51 million (US$10.6 million). Cable is on order
against existing loans and credits for -PRs 9.1 miillin (US$1.91 million)
and further orders are in the process of being placed against existing loans
and credits amounting to PRs 14.1 million (US$2.95 million). The proposed
credit    will provide the sum of PfLs 31.6 million (US$ 6.6 million) for
distribution network provisions. The credit will also provide PRs 1.6 mil-
lion (US$0.3L4 million) for the provision of line concentrators, pay stations,
subscribers carrier and mobile radio equipment. Local manufacture of about
35,000 additional telephone sets is covered under the existing bilateral
credit for exchange switching equipment and future loans from KFW will in-
clude materials for the manufacture of sufficient quantities of telephones
to meet requirements under the program.   IDA financing is not required
at this stage.
Limited -sroduction of PBX equipment is covered in the existing and
propo-sed IM'W loans. The Administration have also, in order to reduce their
foreign currency requirements, introduced arrangements for suppliers to sell
equipment and enter into private maintenance agreements with subscribers.
2. Long-Distance Telephone Service
Due to the present state of overloading on most trunk routes, it
is difficult to assess the true position in relation to traffic offered;
a further complicating factor in the case of the point-to-point STD routes
is the very large number of ineffective calls resulting from repeated call
attempts. An examination of manual trunk routes, where demand is not being
artificially suppressed by lack of facilities, indicates that trunk traf-
fic is grow*ing at a rate in the region of 13% per annum which is in line
with the rate of growth of the subscribers netwjork. However, in each case
where manual routes have been converted to STD working and due to the im-
proved service facilities and shorter charging periods, there has been a
cons-iderable further increase in traffic of from 100% to 300%.
2.1       Trunk Switching and Trunk Exchanges
The program allows for the introduction of STD facilities with
through dialing to main automatic exchanges in East and West Pakistan re-
placing the present point-to-point STD routes and connecting some 13 auto-
matic exchanges in East Pakistan and 21 in West Pakistan to the STD netwiork.
The new STD equipment will be of the EI D type and will largely be manufac-
tured in Pakistan. Cost of the materials for manufacture and of the supply



Page 3 of 7
of other items of equipment from I'essrs. Siemens is estimated at PRs 8 mil-
lion (Us$1.7 million).  Provision of manual trunk exchanges at other known
STD centers will involve an expenditure of F.s 2.7 million (US$0.57 mil-
lion). A loan is under negotiation with WR; which will provide PRS 5.8
million (US$1.21 million) for the first phase in the provision of these fa-
cilities. Further KFW loans will be applied for in due course to meet the
total cost of the program.   IDA financing is not envisaged.
2.2       Circuit and System Provisions
The principal long-distance network provisions included in the
program are as follows:
(a) provision of an additional 550 PcOts in East and West Pakistan.   Some
300 of these involve only provision of PCO apparatus on existing police
lines so that the addition of completely new facilities under the Plan
amounts to a'oout 250 on an existing total of 598.  Provisions wlhich had
been scheduled on a population priority basis should, the mission felt, be
subject to a guaranteed return either by Government or a local citizens
body in all cases w-here the estimated initial revenue provides a return of
less than 10% on the investment. The total foreign exchange component in-
volved in the proposals is PP.s 7.9 million (US$1.6 million) of which IDA
financing is proposed in the amount of PRs 5.60 million (US$1.17 million)
which will cover provisions up to June 30, 1971;
(b) expansion of the open wire trunk network by 2,700 pair rmiles (see Table
1). The total foreign exchange component involved in the proposals is PRs 16
million (US$3.36 million) for which IDA financing is proposed in the sum of
PRs 8.2 million (US$1.72 million) which will cover provisions up to June 30,
1971. Associated with the extension of the open wire trunk network is the
addition of carrier equipment to provide a further 607 trunk circuits on
open wire lines.  Purchase of this equipment is covered under an existing
bilateral credit and IDA financing is not involved;
(c) a carrier cable is to be provided for between Lahore and Khamewal as
part of the railway communication system and in connection with electrifi-
cation proposals. The foreign exchange component of mRs 1.05 million (us$0.22
million) is covered under an existing United Kingdom bilateral credit;
(d) it is proposed to install a 960-channel duplex microwave system between
Karacihi and Rawalpindi.  This is justified in order to meet both the addi-
tional circuit requirements in W,est Pakistan and give protection against
breakdown. It is expected that T&T willapply for IBRD or IDA financing
for this scheme in due course involving a foreign exchange component esti-
mated at PRs 32 million (US$6.72 million).
(e) provision of a Lahore-Rawjalpindi 960-channel duplex microwave system
is justified for similar reasons; T&T are negotiating with Japan for trans-
fer of a bilateral credit originally approved for other purposes to allow



AME',,XEX 1.5
Page 4 of 7
provision of this system. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
Pfis 4.26 million (US$0.9 million);
(f) provision of a Peshavtar-Rawalpindi 960-channel four-tube coaxial cable
to provide for the additional circuit requirements and replace the present
open wire carrier systems. This system will involve a foreign exchange com-
ponent expenditure of PRs 6.5 million (US$1.37 million). T&T are at present
negotiating with KFVT for a credit in the sum of PRs 12.2 million (US$2.56
million) which will cover the cost of thisscheme together with certain car-
rier provisions covered under item (g);
(g) provision of additional channelling equipment on the Karachi-Lahore-
Rawalpindi coaxial cable. This provision is required to bring the coaxial
cable fully into use and also meet additional circuit requirements up to
such time as the newi microwave system is provided.  The total foreign ex-
change component required for channelling equipment is estimated at PRs 9
million (US$1.89 million). The present loan under negotiation with KKI
will cover initial requirements;
(h) provision of coaxial cable spurs in IJest Pakistan. These are designed -
to be small tube coaxial cables to the important centers of Sialkot, Marden,
Haripur and Abbottobad.  The total foreign exchange component involved is
estimated at PRs 8 million (US$1.68 millinn).  It is considered that the
provisions to iaarden and Abbottobad should come later in the program and
that the spur to Sialkot should be engineered and included as part of the
Lahore-Rawalpindi microwave system.   IDA financing has been allowed for
the spur to IIaripur. The foreign currency component involved is PRs 2.5
million (US$0.53 million);
(i) provisiorn of Hyderabad-viirpurkhas microwave or coaxial system replacing
exxisting onen wire carrier systems. This system is required to meet addi-
tional circuit requirements but should be included with the Karachi-Rawalpindi
provisions.   IDA financing has therefore not been allowsed for at this stage;
(j) provision of East Pakistan coaxial and microwave systems.   It is pro-
posed to provide a microwave system linking Dacca with Sylhet, a coaxial
cable linking Dacca wjith 11tymensingh, a coaxial cable linking Kushtia, Bogra,
Rangpur with a spur to Rajshahi, and a coaxial cable linking Hajiganj and
Comila. These are all links connecting to District Subscriber Trunk Dial-
ling Centers, and their provision is a necessary prelude to the introduc-
tion of STD in the areas concerned in East Pakistan.   IDA financing is pro-
posed for this scheme, the foreign exchange cost of which will be PRs 19.91
million (US$4.18 million);
(k) provision of Chittagong-Barisal-Khulna microwave system. This provi-
sion meets additional circuit requirements and also provides standby facili-
ties through triangulation in the southern part of East Pakistan. An
Export/Import loan is under negotiation for the sum of PRs 7.5 million
(US$1.57 million);



AM'E'X 1$5
Page 5 of 7
(1) provision of additional multiplexing Dacca-Chittagong. This is neces-
sary to allow for additional circuit requirements;  the foreign exchange
cost of the materials for local manufacture is PRs 2.68 million (US$0.56
million) and is in part taken care of by the KFW credit mentioned under
item (f);
(m) provision of other miscellaneous projects.   An allowance of PRs 5.2
million (US$1.1 million) has been made mainly for additional lines and
carrier channelling equipment which in the initial stages will, in all pro-
bability, be financed through KMl facilities.
3. Interning and International
The growth of interjing telephone traffic over the last five years
has been 12.2% per annum and telegraph traffic 12.5% per annum despite the
inadequate facilities. In considering the rate of growth of Pakistan's
international telecommunications traffic, it is necessary to bear in mind
the enforced but almost complete break of community of interest with India,
stemming from the 1965 hostilities. Cn overall figures, including traffic
with India, there has been a reduction of 7% on international telephone
traffic since 1964; if, however, the figures for India are excluded, in-
ternational traffic since 1964 has grown at the rate of 32% per annum.
In the case of the international telegraph service (with the Indian
figures excluded) traffic has grown since 1964 at the rate of 13.5%o per annum.
Telex,-a relatively new innovation, has shown an annual rate of traffic growth
of 71%, but this can be expected over the next few years to reduce to a fig-
ure of 25% per annum comparable with the annual international telephone traf-
fic growth rate.
The improvement of both interwing and international facilities is
essential to the development of the economy and the administration of the
two wings of Pakistan as an integrated country. A-direct route via India
is ruled out of consideration by political factors, and the proposed use of
satellite facilities is the most satisfactory and least costly means of
providing adequate interwing and improved international facilities. T&T
were also proposing to provide a VHF scatter system via Nepal, and to con-
siderably increase their IHF facilities. A study was therefore made - Table 2 -
which shows that any diversification of effort such as the provision of
further HF facilities or a low capacity system via lqepal cannot be justified
on economic or financial grounds. The proposals finally included in the
program are designed to provide adequate standby facilities and to use exist-
ing HF channels to maximum capacity and efficiency.
3.1       The provisions to be made under the program are as follows:
(a)  T&T have negotiated a credit with the Export/Import Bank
in the sum of PRs43 million (US$10.1 million) which will
orovide for the installation of earth satellite stations
near Chittagong in Fast Pakistan and Karachi in West
Pakistan linked to the two main centers in question by means
of microwave systems. 'They have also gone to tender on an
international basis with a view to arranging supply/financing
on the best possible terms; IDA financing is not involved.



A1FEX 15
Page 6 of 7
(b)  Provision of LT radio facilities to be financed from the
IDA credit allows for the purchase of four transmitters,
four receiveis and four terminals of the improved Lin-
complex tZme at a foreign exchange cost of PRs 2.01 mil-
lion (US$o.42 miillion).
4. Telegraphs and Telex
The rate of growith of internal telegraph traffic had been at about
per annun for a considerable period, but began to fall away on the intro-
duction of STD which becomes competitive due to the short duration call
charges.  Since 1964 domestic telegraph traffic has shown a reduction of
0.6% per annum. The service is an essential one to many persons who cannot
afford telephone service and it also operates in many areas in which tele-
phone service has not yet been provided.
The domestic telex service was introduced in 196h/65 and has showqn
an average rate of growth of 70% per annum over a three-year period.  This -
will) it is contemplated, fall progressivelv as outstanding demands are met,
but, following erperience elsewhere, should stabilize at about 25, per an-
num. The service should become a highly profitable one and offers advantages
through the common use of facilities in both modernizing and reducing the
cost of operation of the domestic telegraph service.
4.'     - The proposals include manufacture and installation of 1,450 tele-
printe;rs, 1,480 telex and gentex exchange terminations, 315 VF telegraph chan-
nels and extensions to phonograph and public telegraph facilities. The pro-
gram allow.s for a foreign exchange component expenditure of PRs 8.6 million
(US$1.81 million).  A loan is under negotiation with KFU in the sum of
P?LS 13.2 million (US,;2.72 mi'llion) which will provide for additional machinery
for a new factory and for some materials for manufacturing purposes.
5. Miscellaneous Provisions
5.1       Provisions of Services to Government Departments
Provisions allowz for a total foreign exchange component of PRs 11.54
million (US$2.43 million).  IDA  financing is not involved.
5.2       Training and Research
Provision has been made for additional equipment and facilities
at the engineering staff college at-Haripur and for equipping the new re-
gional training schools at Peshawar, Rohri and Khulna. A German grant in
the sum of PRs 6 million (US$1.26 million) is under negotiation.
5.3       Buildings and Quarters
Provision of buildings for specific technical projects is included
in the cost of such projects and not under this item. Included under this
item is the provision of a new T&T headquarters in Islamabad and provisions



AiqTh'EX 15
Page 7 of 7
for staff quarters and security guards. The foreign currency component is
PRs 0.90 million (US$0.19 million).    IDA financing is not involved.
5-4     IWorkshops and Stores
The stores section provisions cover addi-tional handling and ac-
comrnodation facilities to take care of the increased volume of stores to
be dealt with urnder the program.  The workshop provisions are designed to
increase accommodation and also improve the production of Doles and fittings
required for the program.  The foreign currency component is IMs 3.0 mil-
lion (US$0.63 million). IDA f'inancing is not involved.
5.5       Other Works
These are works of improvement and replacement covering all types
of plant and unforeseen and rninor works which may become necessary and are
not scheduled in the program.   A1n allowance has also been made for office
equipment. The foreign currency component is PRs 14.3 million (US$3.03 mil-
lion). Government appropriates funds for these foreign currency provisions.
IDA financirg is not involved.
January 21, 1969



CHART I
ANNEX 15
PAKISTAN: TELEPHONE GROWTH-DEMAND
AND PROVISIONS, 1948-1972
(THOUSANDS OF TELEPHONES)
400 r                             1                             T              i 400
350                                                                                 350
ESTIMATED GROWTH IN TELEPHONES       /1
300                                                                                 300
ESTIMATED GROWTH IN DEM AND-""A    /
250                                                               /                 250
200          WAITING LIST JUNE 1968 68,000                       I i                200
ESTIMATED WAITING LIST JUNE 1972= 47,000 
150                                                                                 150
100                                                                                 100
50                                                                                50
0     I     I l                I  I  I  I  I  I    I                             0 
1945         1950         1955         1960         1965         1970         1975
NOTES: Post rates of growth (1955-1968,12.25% compound) (1960-1968, 10.8% compound). NTBs estimated
growth-demand increase PA = 13.3% compound. Rate of growth 1969-1972, 19.2% compound.
IBRD-4126



0000         0    tn-q 'fbXwaC&aa                    0    on ow
0 
:.-               ', ;. 
                                 -

*          a   a  ;                                         *
a
5
...--.....-.........-...-...-...... U
-- - -                         50
- 0
0
wj
S
.a I''''                   - -                 0 C -
0
Co'-      ,  5      -



ANNEX 15
Table 2
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
DEPARTNENT OF TELEGRAPH AND TELE PHONES
COST ANALYSIS - ADDITIONAL HF RADIO TELEPHONE LINKS AND VHF
SCATTER SYSTEM VIA NEPAL AS AGAINST SATELLITE CIRCUITS
1. ANNUAL COST OF SATELLITE AND RADIO CIRCUITS
Cost per additional satellite circuit = US$30,000 per annum.
HF radio circuits will only be 80% as efficient due to lower
working efficiency (manual as against STD, increased holding lines, etc.)
and 80% as productive in revenue due to poorer transmission time allow-
ances, ineffective calls, etc.
The cost of providing an equivalent HF RT circuit via a satel-
80    80
lite channel is US$30,000 x 100 x 100 = US$19,200
The cost of provision of a proposed additional 12 HF RT links:
US$
6 - RT terminals at $15,000 + 50% for installation
and accommodation      135,000
2 - High power transmitters at $130,000 for instal-
lation and accommodation       450,000
It- Medium "                 t $ 35,000                 210,000
6 - Reserves                " $   7,500  "    it         67,500
8 - Antennas                                            204,000
Total cost    1,066,500
Cost of equipment, excluding antennas               862,500
Annual charges based on T&T normal provisions:
(1) 15% for operating and maintenance of radio
equipment          129,375
(2)  31 for operating and maintenance of antennas        7,125
(3)  10% depreciation on equipment                       86,250
(4)   7% depreciation on antennas                        14,250
(5)   6% interest on capital                             63,900
Total     $300,900
Annual charge per circuit     $ 25,100



ANNEX 15
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
2.  CONPARISON OF FOREIGN EXCHAUNGE EXPENDITURE ON HF AND SATELLITE
CIRCUITS OF EQUIVALENT EFFICIENCY (e.g. 7.7 CIRCUITS
SATELLITE = 12 CIRCUITS FE) OVER A PERIOD OF 15 YEARS.
SATELLITE - Circuits
Assumptions: Price a) $30,000 per circuit in the first
5 years,b)T $20,000 in the second 5 years and, c) $15,000
in the third 5 years,
a)  7.7 x 30,000 = 231,000 x 5               $1.16 million
b)  7.7 x 20,000 = 154,000 x 5               $0.77     I
c)  7.7 x 15,000 = 116,000 x 5               $0.58    "
$2.51 million
Present discounted value of a) = $1.972 million
Present discounted value of b) = $o.485     "
Present discounted value of c) = $0.272     "
(assuming 6% interest)
Total present value  $1.729 million
HF Circuits
Total foreign exchange cost of 12 circuit HF equipment with
lifetime of 10 years                                = $0.8 million
HF with lifetime of 15 years (+50%)                      = $1.2 million
repayable over 15 years = present value                  = $0.78
1/
Interest, 6% over 15 years   = 576,000                   = $0.36
present value                                            = $0.35
Spare part etc., 5% p.a. fix = 1.05 million                $0.66
present value (assuming evenly spread over the period)     $0.68    "
Total fix exp. at present value                       $1.81    "
(not ind. exp. on inv. for generation of power)
1/ Annual interest payment with first payment after one year.
3. COST OF SYSTEM VIA NEPAL
T&T have proposed provision of a VHF scatter system via Nepal
at a cost of PRs26.7 million. Estimates which the mission consider are
over optimistic put the capacity of this system at from 60-80 circuits.
A more realistic capacity if CCITT standards are to be met is probably
a maximum of 24 channels.



ANNEX 15
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
Based on the PRs26.7 million figure annual charges as applied
in Pakistan will be as follows:
Maintenance and operating expenses at 15% = PRs4.0 million
Depreciation at 10%                       = PRs2.7 million
Interest on investment at 6%              = PRsl.6 million
Total    PRs8.3 million
= US$1.54 million
for 24 circuits - cost per circuit = US$64,oo0 per annum
for 72 circuits - cost per circuit = US$21,300 per annum
Due to access problems completion would not be likely in under
three years. Satellite circuit costs at present US$30,000 per annum are
estimated by COMSAT to go down to US$20,000 per annum by 1970. The basic
economies of provision of the Nepal system are therefore highly questionable.



AFNEX 16
PAKISTAN TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE DEPT.
Foreign Exchange Requirements 1968-1972 Program
And U. of IDA Credit
1968-69  1969-70  1970-71   1971-72    Total
( I n M i 1 1 i o n s   o f P R a
1.  Jocal telephone ngtwork         31.08    32.00    36.00    43 00     14@.o8
IBRD
Lne concentrators               -       0o.6      -        -         O.o6
Pay stations                  _       0.33      _        -         0.33
Underground cables           6.00    17.80      -        -        23.80
Drop-wire and fittings       1.00     2.00      -        -         3.00
Pble material                1.50     3.26               -         4.76
Add-a-line equipment          _       0.25      _        -         0.25
Total IBRD              8.50    23.70      -                32.20
2. Trunk Switching                   0.90     5.10     2.40     2.60      11.00
IBRD                            -        -        -        -          -
3. Lon& distance and Sabaid4jy
Network                       13.60    26.23    39.44     35.50    114.77
IBRD
Eastern Province - Public)
Call Offices            )   -       3.60     2.00      -        5.60
Western Province - Public)
Call Offices
VHF radio (mobile)            -       1.00      -        -         1.00
Open lines Western Province   -       3.80     2.00      -         5.80
Open lines Eastern Provinoe   -       1.40     1.00      -         2.40
Western Province spur
coaxial                     -       1.00     1.50      -        2.50
Eastern Province coa lal
and microwave               -       3.00     8.10     8.80     19.90
Total IBRD                  -      13.80    14.60     8.80      37.20
4.  Interwiag and Int rpetiona.      2.85    46.36     6.90       -       56.11
IBRD
HF radio                      -       2.00      -        -         2.00
5.  Telogrqbs Wid Taleqx             1.10     1.60     2.60     3.30       8.60
IBRD                            -        -        -        -          -
6.  Services for goverr ent
departants                     5.29     5.25     5.25     5.75      21.54
7. T_a.j1nrLn and Resemrch           1.45     1.60     1.00     1.00       5105
]:BRD                           _        _        _        _      
8.  Bu14,ngs anp  quarters           20 3     0.20     0.20     0.20       0 9
IBRD                            _        -        -        -          -
9. Workshops and stores              0.30     1.10     0.80     0.80       3.00
IBRD                            -
10.  Other works                      2.90     3 20     3.80      4.40     14.30
IBRD                            -        -        -
Overall requirements                 59.77   122.64    96.39     96.55    375.35
IBRD provision                      8.50    39.50    14.60     8.80      71.40
IBRD contingencies                   -        -        -        -        4.75
Total IBRD                                                  76.15
January 21, 1969



COMPARISONS OF TELECOMMUJNICATIONS DEVELOPMENT IN SOME RAPIDLY GROWING ASIAN COUNTRIES
Pakistan    Malaya    Korea    Taiwan   Israel    Japan    Iran
Per capita inccme, 1965 t$)                  86          280      93       200      1,20h     813      240
Telephone density, l9 W                      0.13         1.42    0.96      1.32       9.84   14.18     0.88
Vehicle density, 196521                       0.17         2.51    0.14      0.26       4.42    6.55     1.36
Average Annual Growth  1957-65               10.9          8.2    22.0      15.8       15.7    17.4     15.7
Telephones             1960-65               11.5          8.8    20.5      11.2       17.0    21.5     19.6
Average Annual Growth  1957-65               15.8          8.8     5.0      11.5        13.4   24.O      9.2
Motor Vehicles         1960-65               16.2          9.9     5.7      11.4        18.2   28.5      2.5
Average Ann.GNP Growth 1960-65                5.3          6.o     7.1      10.2        10.0     9.6     6.4
Investment in Telecommunications
as percent             1960                   0.16         0.23    0.15      -          0.44    0.93     0.25
1961                   o.16         0.23    0.13      0.16        0.37    0.9h     0.45
of GDP   at            1962                   0.21         0.25    0.55      0.28       o.69    1.04     0.27
1963                   0.24         0.28    0.26      0.16        0.62    1.08     0.14
Market prices          1964                   0.23         0.28    0.35      0.35        1.27    1.06     0.25
1965                   0.21         0.34     -        0.32        1.22    1.17     0.28
Av.                     0.21        0.27    0.31      0.27        0.82    1.06     0.27
as percent             1960                   1.50         1.59    1.43       -          1.49    2.65     1.36
1961                    1.20        1.40    1.06      0.83        1.17    2.41     2.65
of Gross               1962                   1.50         1.31    4.40      1.48        2.14   2.84      2.05
1963                    1.40        1.53    1.41      0.89        2.05    3.02     1.04
Domestic               1964                   1.30         1.55    2.59      1.87        3.80    2.90     1.60
1965                    1.70        1.94     -        1.44        4.00    3.51     1.53
Investment             Av..                   1.42         1.57    2.17      1.35        2.62    2.93     1.69
j    At official exchange rates                                                        *   estimated
2/   Total telephones per 100 population
3/   Total number of vehicles with four or more wheels per 100 population
Sources:  U.N. Yearbook of National Accounts 1966
U.N. Statistical Yearbooks
Publications of National Statistical Offices and State Banks
World Bank reports on certain telecommunications entities
ATT World's Telephones
Annual Reports of certain telecommunications entities
World Bank Economic Reports on certain countries
January 21, 1969



hNNEX 18
ECONOFIlIC ASPECTS
(A more detailed exposition of the economic aspects
of telecommunications developraent in Pakistan is
given in the supplementary volume to this report.)
1.        In the economic evaluation of projects for the expansion of
telecommunications systems there are three principal questions which
need to be answered:
a. Is the total expansion program of the right size?
b. Is the composition of the program correct?
c. Are the prices to be charged for telecommunications
services such as to ensure optimum use of the equipment
provided?
In principle all of these questions should have a single simultaneous
solution in the form of the rate of return on the last rupees invested
in the program. The size of the program should be such that the
return to thie last rupee invested in it would be equal to the return
on that rupee if invested elsewt-here in the economy.  The composition
of the program should be such that the return to the last rupee invested
in increasing the quantity a-nd improving the quality of each type of
telecemmunication service is the same for all sea-vices.  The prices
charged for each sea-vice should be such as to cover the costs involved
in providing more of the service including a return to capital equal
to the marginal return identified in the formulation of the investment
program.  This process of equating the marginal rate of return on all
services to the opportunity cost of capital will serve to optimize
the program of system expansion and to maximize the rate of return on
total new investment in the system.  However this marginal rate of
return will not generally be the same as the rate of return on the
total new investment which serves the different purpose of illustrating
the economic benefits to a country of the investment program as a whole
or of parts of it.iV
2.        These are the basic principles which have oriented the
approach takeni in the economic evaluation of this proJect. In practice,
of course, the principles have to be modified because of many diffi-
1/ It should also be noted that neither the marginal rate of return
referred to above nor the rate of return on total new investment would
bear any obvious relationship to the year-by-year financial rates of
return calculated in Annex 9 even if financial and economic analyses were
made on the basis of the same traffic forecasts, unit costs and unit
revenues (wjhich they should not necessarily be) and if the approach to
pricing described in this paragraph were actually being applied by T&T.
This is because the financial rate of return is calculated on the basis
of total average net fixed assets in operation valued at historical costs
and assuming straight-line depreciation, whereas the economic calcula-
tions described in paragraph 1 are based on increases in fixed assets,
valued at their actual anticipated costs, and assuming sinking fund
depreciation.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 12
culties - for example, wucertainties of forecasting, ignorance of
price elasticities, inflexibility of prices over time, the need to have
a reasonably simple structure of p-rices for telecommunications services,
ignorance of the true opportunity cost of capital in Pakistan, the
existence of technical and managerial constraints on the expansion of
particular services. From the point of view of those operating a
telecommunications system these difficulties mean that it is often
impossible to expand telecommunications services to levels at which
the marginal return on capital invested in each is equal or to cLharge
prices which express a uniform value of capital. From the analytical
point of view these difficulties meen that the proposed investments
have to be studied here in rather large aggregates and many partial
approaches taoards evaluation have had to be used instead of direct
steps to specify the marginal rate of return on each type of service.
Nevertheless tee principles represen-t valuable guidelines and targets
for analytical endeavor.
Current Provision of Telecommunications Services
3.        Pakistan has an average of about 1.4 telephones per thousand
population at present.  This is about 25' below the level prevailing
in India and it is far less than the levels attained in other rapidly
growing Asian countries. Telepilone service in Pakistan is in fact
largely confined at present to officials, enter-orises, professional
perccr-s and businessmen. This is illustrated by an analysis of
telepnone subscribers in the three largest cities of Pakistan
carried out some three years ago.
'Lable 1
Thiree Largest Cities of Pakistan: Distribution of Telephones by Type of User
(in /O oI' total telephones)
Autonomous Business or
Gov't.   Bcdies    Cormmerce   Professions   Others   Total
Office    5.1      6.0       53.4           3.7        3.2     76.4
Residence 3.3      2.3       12.0           1.4        4.6     23.6
ToTal     7o.3--             70.34          77. T             100.0
Thiese figures suggest that, in a business/residence classification of
subscribers such as is maintaine-7 by telephone administrations applying
different tarifl's to eachi Group, some 75-QOS of Pakistan's telephones
would come under IbasLnessK   This compares with about 70,-, in the
Eastern European countries, an estimated S5h in France, and some 30-50`
in countries with the most highly developed telephone service. Of
course a large number of so-called residence telephones are also used
for business purposes. iLn official survey in F'rance indicated that
two-thirds of residence telephones were used for professional and busi-
ness purposes.  In Pakistan the proportion so used is almost certainly
higher, probably about f'our-f'ifths, which in turn implies -that some 56'5
of the total number of tel ephones there are used largely for profes-
sional an-d business purposes.



AhMTEX 18
Page 3 of 12
4.        11aiting lists for telephone selvice in Pakistan are generally
long, especially in the 'Larger cities, and it is not uncommon for an
applicant to wait 5-1 years before obtaining a connection.  Exact
figures for Pending Demand for Direct Lines are not available; one
figure used was 68,000, but an exaraination and updating of lists
indicated that recorded Pending Demand was more nearly 76,000 as of
June 30, 1968.  Beyond this recordeC. Pending Demand experience has
sho,wn that allowance must be made for those who will register their
demands only when an exchange expansion is put undezrway so that the
prospect of obtaining a telephone becomes more real. It is hard to
pick a suitable figure for this so-called Hidden Pending Demand, but an
estimate of 33,000 as of June 30, 1966 (30,000 in 1967) seems reasonable,
based on estimates made by teams surveying the major cities over the
past few years under the leadership of a Swedish technical assistance
team and on recena direct assessments by T&T officials in the various
regions.
5.        In the long-distance sector some 70% of total trunk telephone
traffic is nowz accounted for by the 15 routes between some of the main
cities whlich have been converted to point-to-point subscriber trunk
dialling (STD) over the past five years; 13 of these routes are in
Wiest Pakistan and 2 in East Pakistan. On all the principal STD routes
there is now heavy congestion duling business hours.  The introduction
of SUT has given a sharp stimulus to the growth of trunk traffic.
The average trnmk calling rate has risen from about 112 effective calls
per direct line in 1961/62 to about 220 calls in 1965/66, and on many
individual routes trunk traffic measured in minutes has quadrupled or
quintupled within one year of conversion to STD. Cf the 30,% of trunk
traffic not carried by the STD routes nearly one-quarter represents
manual calls on the routes where SiD facilities are available and the
remainder, less than 25io of total trunk traffic, account for all the
other routes - between the towns and the principal cities, among the
towns, between villages and towns, and intenring and international
routes - on which manual trunk service is provided.
6.        Beyond the telephone the principal services provided by T&T
are thie telegraph and the telex. Internal telegraph traffic appears
to have fallen in recent years on the routes where STD telephone
seivice has been provided, but it is continuing to grow rapidly on
inten.ing and many international routes and slowly on some of the other
interinal routes- the telegraph operates in many of the rural areas where
telephones have not yet been provided. Telex development is at an
et--remely early stage in Pakistan and its growth has been heavily
suppressed by the lack of telex eqluipment; there were about 150 telex
connections in oceration as of June 30, 1966, all in the four principal
cities, and pending demand for telex was of the same order of magnitude.
7.        ihe inadequacy of present telecommunications service for coping
with existing demand, wihich has been illustrated in the preceding
paragraphs, and the inability of T&T to catch up fully with the growth
of demand over the ne;xt five years, wlhich will become apparent below,
emphasize one of the principal difficulties faced in teleccmamunications
planning in Pakistan: how to pick priorities among the quantities and



ANNEX 18
Page 4 of 12
qualities of different types of service which might be provided. In
some other countries, provided that tariffs for telecommunications services
are related to the costs of expanding provision of such services, it
may sometimes be sufficient simply to project the demand that will
present itself at such prices and to plan for a supply which will balance
that demand. In Pakistan, where tariffs are unevenly related to cost of
provision and demand could probably be balanced with supply only by
charging at tariffs implying a very high opportunity cost of capital,
this procedure is inapplicable. Attention has to be paid more to the
relation between the cost of a service and what people would be
prepared to pay for it (or what it would cost them to do without it)
than to the relation between the cost of a service and what people actually
pay for it. Under these circumstances the principles stated in paragraph
1 still hold: services should be extended in quality and quantity up
to the level where the last rupee invested yields a rate of return equal
to the opportunity cost of capital. However the constraints on imple-
mentation may be such that, for individual services or even for most
services, this target cannot be reached.
8.        In the following paragraphs some first steps are taken to try
to implement this approach by detailed analysis of the two principal
portions of the proposedIDA credit - materials and equipment for the
local networks and microwave/coaxial equipment for certain long-distance
links. The analysis, especially in the case of the local networks,
rema-:ns quite global in the sense of taking a large group of areas
together, and the attempt is confined to assessment of the rate of
return on the total proposed expenditure in coming years on the local
telephone systems in thaese areas; thus it does not indicate the
marginal return on this type of investment in the sense discussed above.
Hcwever it lays the foundation for assessing this and it suggests the
order of magnitude of the benefits which should accrue to Pakistan
from the principal works for which the proposed loan would provide
necessery foreign exchange.
Local Teleolhone Service in the INiulti-Exchange Areas
9.        Expansion of the local telephone networks accounts for about
40',9 of the total investment planned by T&T up to 1972 and also of the
proposed IDA credit. Almost all of the material purchased with this
portion of the proposed credit will go into the local networks in the
12 larger cities which either already have a network cf local
exchanges linker by junction cables or are intended by T&T soon to have
such a network.  These 12 areas will account for about 7'O' of the
direct lines added between now and 1972, somewihat more of the telephones
added, and about 80% of the total investment in local telephone networks.
10.       Basic data regarding these 12 multi-exchange areas, indicating
the situation as of June 30, 1968, are shown in Table 2.



ANNEX 1-8
Page 5 of 12
Table 2
The Tv:elve 1'iulti-Exchalnge Areas: iJemand for Direct Lines
Estimated
Existing             Total      Hidden      Total
Direct    Pending  Expressed   Pending    Estimated
Lines    Demand    Demand     Demand      Demand
Karachi                4O,568    29,864    707432     10,000      80,432
Hyderabad               2,910     2,450     5,360      1,250       6,610
Lahore                 14,764    10,95     25,722      5,000      30,722
Rawalpindi/Islamabad    6,50d     2,326     b,834      1,;000      9,834
Lyallpur                3,277     1,700     4,977        bO        5,777
Iultan                  1,890     1,600     3,490      1,000       4,590
Peshawar                2,47`       330     2,805       -          2,308
Quetta                  1,073       335     1,408        100       1,508
Gujranwala              1,290       d63     2,153        400       2,553
Dacca                  15,408    10,750    26,158     13,000      36,158
Chittagong              5,591     3,100     8,691      3,000      11,691
Khulna                  1,985     1,000     2,955        600       3,585
Total               97,742    65,276   163,018     33,150     196,168
Total, WHest Pakistan  74,758    50,426   125,164     19,550     144,734
Total, East Pakistan   22,9814   14,850    37,834     13,600      51,434
Excluding Hidden Pending Demand, for vlhich it is difficult to obtain a
reasonable estimate for earlier years, the growJth of demand for direct
lines in these 12 areas averaged about 11,, per annum over the period
1965-68.
11.       Future growth of demand for rlirect lines in these 12 areas has
been projected on the basis of tihe Total Estimated Demand (including
Hidden Pending Demand) shown in table 2.      , slight adjustment was first
made to allow for the fact that the figures in table 2 all related to
the situation before tariffs were raised on July 1, 1968t. Studies
undertaken in Europe and the United States suggest price-elasticities
of demand for telephone service betaJeen abcut -0.1 and -0.5, meaning
that a 10% increase in price will cause demand to drop off betiween
one percent and five percent. These studies have also shown that the
price elasticity of business demand for telephone service tends to
the lcwer part of this range. In Pakistan demand is probably somewhat
less elastic than it is in Europe and the United States since it is so
heavily concentrated in the business/adninistration sector of the
econoriy. However, in order not to exaggerate the inelasticity of demand,
a comparatively high figure of -0.25 has been adopted here.  Since the
effective price of lccal telephone service in the multi-exchange areas



ANNEX 18
Page 6 of 12
was increased on July 1, 1968by 11.47 or from Rs. 790 per annum to
Rs. 880 per annum, use of this elasticity means that demand' for service
is assumed to have fallen back 2.0%'; frcm about 196,000 (as shown in
table 2) to 191,000 following the price increase. Projections, taking
account of both the ll'O overall trend rate of growith of demand in these
areas and the specific trend rates of growth for each city over the
last three years, suggests that demand f'or Direct Lines in these areas
would be about 289,000 by June 30, 1972, assuming no further changes
in tariffs.
12.       For purposes of this analysis some indication is needed not
only of how responsive demand may be to the relatively small price
increase recently introduced but also of how it might react to very
large price-changes. For this purpose the European and American econo-
metric studies referred to in the previous paragraph can be of little
use, because demand for service is so much more nearly fully met there
and because the price-changes that have occurred there have beenl rather
slight. lHo studies are available of the countries where prices of
telephone service have been very sharply increased under non-inflationary
conditions.  However there are two approaches that can be helpful for
assessing the situation in Pakistan. The first is to attempt to weigh,
on the basis of personal experience of the existing situation, the
amount which would be saved by a waiting applicant for telephone
serv:.ce if his application were to be met; for in a free market, a
man s;iould be prepared to pay for a service an amount almost equal to
what he would gain by having the service. The second approach is to
consider the implications of the fact that people in Pakistan - hcw
many is quite unknown - do naw pay significant amounts additional to
the official installation charge in order to secure telephone service.
13.       During its stay in Pakistan the appraisal mission visited a
number of industrialists who have established factories on the outskirts
of towns or in new industrial areas over the past few years and who are
still aw.aiting provision of telephone service. On the basis of' conver-
sations with them and information about salaries and transport costs
it is possible to make scme rough estimates of what these industrialists
are directly spending due to their lack of a telephone.  The case
outlined here is a type-case not precisely corresponding to any one
situation encountered, but broadly representative of several. Consider
a business undertaking located about four miles from the center of town,
which can be reached by car in about 15 minutes. The junior executives
receive a salary of about Rs. 2,000 per month (a rather low business
executive salary in Pakistan, b.t quite high for government), which,
with a 60% allowance for pension, leave, overheads, etc., and assuming
175 working hours a montnt, works out at an average cost per executive-
hour of Rs. 19. Lacking a telephone at present, the executives have
to make all their meetings and contacts with suppliers, merchants,
government officials, etc. face to face. On average they are out of
the building for such meetings about half the day every second day. It
is estimated that, if they had telephones, this could be cut to about
half-a-day per week. The direct savings frcm having a telephone for an



AN1iJEX 18
Page 7 of 12
executive might therefore be considered to be the time involved in
travelling dovmtown and in moving between one meeting and another and
waiting for individual intei:'views due to the impossibility of
pre-arranging times - and in adcition the costs of transport downtown.
Taking a conservative estimate of two-and-a-half hours a week for lost
time, at Rs. 19 per hour, the value of time saved by having a telephone
and the possibility of making lccal calls would be in the neighborhood
of Ris. 2,500 per year. Transport costs, which would be high due to the
high Pakistani import duties on cars and gasoline and the heavy
congestion of downtown streets in Pakistani cities, might be evaluated
at anything from Rs. 200 to Rs. 500 depending on whether allowance is
made only for the marginal costs involved in these trips or for the
full average costs of operation.
14.       A naive calculation of this sort is far from doing justice
to the full complexity of -the advantages in trade and business to be
had from having a telephone; it is 'ust because these advantages are
so multifarious that the main weight in assessing intensity of demand
must be given to what people would be prepared to pay for service.
But these calculations, which may be representative for some of those
who are losing most from the inability of T&T to provide them a telephone,
do provide a yardstick. They suggest that some people at least would
be prepared to pay something in the neighborhood of Rs. 2,700 p.a. to
have a telephone. It would of course be possible to reach any number
of different figures with slight changes in assumption.  However, the
purpose at this stage is not to pursue some will-o'-the-wisp precision,
but to shcw that, even with rather modest assumptions, one reaches a
rather high estimate of the calculable losses presently sustained by
some of those awaiting service.
15.       Another rough guide to the intensity of demand is that in
some places people are paying sums between Ps. 2000 and Rs. 4000 in
addition to the official installation charges in order to secure
telephone service, either from the T&T Department or from another
subscriber lwho no longer needs his line.  Inclusion of this amount
(amortized over 10 years) on an arnualized basis in the price of
telephone service would raise the price frcm about Rs. 880 per annam
to something in the neighboorhood of Ps. l,400-1,700 per annum.  Just
what proportion of new subscribers do pay or would be prepared to pay
these additional sums is impossible to say; the situation varies
considerably from place to place and from time to time, for if cable
pairs or exchange capacity are simply not available then no amount of
payment will secure a telephone for a new subscriber, and, equally, in
the opposite case, when an exchange and local network have recently
been expanded, so that new connections are comparatively readily
available, it appears that extra payments are not generally made.
But the fact that people are prepared to pay a high premium when the
scarcity of new connections is such as to make it worthwhile, suggests
that for many of those on the waiting list a telephone connection is
worth at least this much.



ANNEX 18
Page o of 12
16.       These various considerations about the intensity and the
prospective growth of demand can be brought together with the prospective
growtha of supply of direct telephone lines in such a way as to permit
estimation of the difference between what people would be prepared to
pay for telephone service and what it will cost to supply them. Demand
curves were drawn on the basis of an elasticity of about -0.25 in the
vicinity of the prices actually experienced recently, and they were
extended to imply that (a) about 60% of those awaiting service would
be prepared to pay a price equivalent to about Rs. 1,500 per annum and
(b) a few of those waiting for service would be prepared to pay upwards
ofrfs. 2,000 up to a peak of about RLs. 2,700 per annum. These demand
curves were extended outwards over the years on the assumption that
demand at the prices now prevailing would grow as indicated at the end
of paragraph 11. Since it takes at least three years to plan, build
and equip an exchange in the multi-exchange areas in Pakistan, what can
be achieved in these areas by 1972 is already largely determined.
Supply of direct lines has therefore been projected on the basis of
detailed assessment of progress and plans for each of the 12 multi-
exchange areas. Total supply by June 30, 1972 will probably be about
220,000 lines, compared with about 96,000 lines existing as of June 30,
1966; supply will rermain substantially less than demand.
17.       In order to estimate the costs and the benefits of the four
year program of local service expansion in the multi-exchange areas
to which the proposed loan would contribute twenty-year streams,
shoWing the initial investments, renewal investments, residual values of
certain capital equipment at the end of the 20 years, annual costs of
maintenance, operation, billing and accounting, revenues and consumer
surplus (the difference between what people would be prepared to pay
for service according to the demand curves described in the
previcus paragraph and what they will have to pay) have been built up.
Analysis of the figures shows that the rate of return so T&T (i.e. exclu-
ding consumer surplus) from this particular part of the expansion
program is in the neighborhood of 20>. Inclusion of the consumer surplus
in order to reach an estimate of the benefit to the economy as a whole
suggests that the economic rate of return on this part of the program
is in the neighborhood of 80%.  Tests were made using a foreign exchange rate
of Rs. 9.52 per U.S. dollar, double the official exchange rate, to
allow for the serious foreign excnange stringency prevailing in
Pakistan, but it was found that this would reduce the return to 'TT
only from 204. to 17/ and therefore would not seriously affect the very
high economic rate of returr estimated.
18.       It is important to emphasize that this high economic rate of
return will only be achieved if new telephone lines are allocated, as
and iwhen they become available, to those at the top of the demand curve
(i.e. those whose demand for telephone service is most intense), as was
assumed in the analysis.  Comparison of prospective demand and supply
over each of the comin- years suggests that supply wJill not grow
sufficiently rapidly to reduce the price that would balance supply and
demand substantially belowi about rLs. 2,500. Those subscribers who
would be added each year would be those prepared to pay something in



A\NEX 18
Page 9 of 12
the range T.s.2,000-Rs.2,700 per annum for service. This is some
two-three times the present calculated price of R's.30. The diver-
gence between these two figures is reflected in the iact that T&T has
to make extensive use of a non-price rationing system for local
telephone service at the present time. Part of this system lies in the
planning decisions made by T&T as to where to expand exchange capacity
and, despite the fact that the Third Five Year Plan appears to provide
much more ar;ply for some areas than for others, the historical evidence
suggests that these dicisions have in practice generally been fairly
well related to need. The other main part of the rationing system lies
in a set of priority criteria used for deciding who of those on the
waiting list should get new lines when they become available. It is
uncertain how close practice comes to expressing the priorities laid
don, and it is questionable howx far the higher priority given to
government and other public institutions than to business and commerce
is justifiable from the economic point of view.  Many advantages cculd
be foreseen for a system of rationing that would be less arbitrary and
would give more place to the price-mechanism. The possibilities of
achieving a tariff structure based on both -che actual costs incurred
in provision of different portions of the service and also on the
additional ra-tioning function that prices should perform under the
prevailing circuzmstances merits caref'ul consideration by T&T and by
tne management consultant to be appointed.
Lcnll Distance Telecomnunications Systems
19.       Expansion of long-distance services accounts for about
one-third of T&'iits investment program for the four fiscal years
1969-72.  The largest single item is the construction of two earth
stations to enable Pakistan to make use of the Indian Ocean communica-
tions satellite, which is scheduled to be launched in mid-1969, for
interwing and international communications. Beyond the proposed
satellite system the principal item which sets the frame for the T&T
development program in the long-distance sector in the coming years
is the proposal to introduce subscriber trunk dialling among 34 of the
principal cities and towns in the country (21 in Wjest Pakistan and 13
in East Pakistan). The existing point-to-point dialling system, while
it has served its purpose in easing the constraints on the flow of
conmr.-unications among the most important cities of each province, has
very limited potential for expansion and has various technical dis-
advantages. The point-to-point system is e;xtremely simple, consisting
completely of two-wire sW-itching equipment and employing no transit
selectors. However, without transit selectors it is impossible to
connect one town to more than -ten other towns in each province, and
without four-wire switching it is difficult to introduce transit
selectors. The flexible interdialling network which it is now proposed
to introduce was originally designed by a German technical assistance
team. It will make it possible to extend subscriber trunk dialling
eventually to all exchanges in the country. In the interim it will
permit subscriber dialling among all the principal towns and operator
trunk dialling from smaller exchanges. It will make feasible interwing
dialling wlhich could not be provided withn the existing system.  And,



ANNEX 18
Page 10 of 12
because it uses four-wire switching, it -will improve transmission
quality.  From the economic point of view it is important that the
proposed trunk switching sys-tem will also make possible for the first
time in Pakistan automatic alternate routing so that trunks circuits
can be collected in larger groups than would otherwise be possible and
advantage can therefore be taken of the economies of scale character-
istic of long-distance transmission system.
20.       Detailed profections have been made for traffic-flows between
all the 34 towns proposed to be included in the STD network, on the
basis of recent monthly traffic records for the routes which are now on
point-to-point STD and a complete analysis of manual trunk traffic which
was made by T&T in collaboration with NTB on three days in April 1965.
Tne technique used for projecting traffic was basically to multiply the
base traffic by the projected growth in the sum of the direct lines in
the originating and destinatory exchanges3 to use, on routes where STD
would be introduced for the first time, additional multiplicatory factors
of two for traffic between neighboring secondary towns and three for traffic
betwveen sccondary toans and the principal tcvns close to them; and to use
an additicnal multiplicatory factor of 1.5 (or slightly less in the case of
minor towns and in later years) for all traffic between towsns in West
Pakistan and Raualpindi/Islamabad.   Intenring traffic was treated sepa-
rately and projected by relating it to air-passenger traffic.
21.       About 30%o of the proposed IDA Credit would be used to Drovide
the foreign exchange required for construction of high-capacity micro-
wave/coaxial links between some of the towns to be brought onto the
subscriber trunk dialling system. Table 3 shows the length of these
various routes and the circuit-reqairements projected for 1972, assuming
that present plans for introduction of the first stage of STD are fully
implemented by that time.
Table 3
1972 1'runk Circuit Requirements on Routes Proposed for Bank Financing
Approximate               Circuit
Route             Length (MIiles)          Requirements
Haripur-Taxila                 24                    100+
Dacca-Mymensingh             102                      97
Comilla-Haiiganj              26                     181
Dacca-Syihet                 12d                      74
Kushtia-Natore                50                     205
Natore-Bogra                  40                     100
Bogra-Rangpur                 60                      54
Natore-Rajshahi               25                     105
The link between Dacca and Sylhet is the longest and most expensive
per circuit required and would thus appear to be the link with the
weakest economic justification. Hence it was selected for detailed
analysis. The possible alternative of maintaining Sylhet on manual
delay trunk service was compared with the proposal to convert it to
STD and install a high-capacity microwave link with Dacca.   Separate



Page 1I of 12
traffic forecasts were mae, the STIJ traffic forecast- consistert wiith
the inationwide forecasts d.esciiobed in th...e preceL i-ng paragraph, and
the manual traffic forec; st omitting t.e SI3D stiLulus iactors mentioned
tnere. Liiven tuhe circuit reQuirements projected' under eachl of the two
cases appropriate transiiussion s3yste]ias were desig,ned aiad the necessar-,\-
channellin- anid multiplexing 1.Tere a-'ded as necessalr to meet circuit
recuiirements. ;*1llowances were also made for the local network orovisions -
SWitciilng eouipment in thie local ex.c'aanges and dist;ibution cables -
that would be requ-ired! to cope withl imanual trunk traffic on the one hiand
an2` writh SD  trunk traffic (and t,ne relateo'. higiher trunik calling rate)
on the othler.  Teni-year streams of costs and revenlues were built uD for
the  alte.nUaive s'.sten'is.
22.       Corrroarison of estimated costs and revenues at prevailing
trunk tariifs for eac'i of tihe two systeras indicates that the rate of
return to Tl-' on the Rs.4.3 million initial investment in the
manual SrStem woulldl be about 36,  hi.dle th-iat on the IRs.7.2 million
initial inves-tment recuired to proviCe th-ie STD' system would be in
tiie nei-hborhood of 7550%. A ccording to the analysis, at currerit trank
tariffs, total investment in the manual system woulcd be recovered
within about 3-1/2 years of si.art of operation, while total invest-
ment in the ST1 system would be recovered in a little over one
year.  m'he return to the extra its. 3 rillioin of initial investment
re_uired to provide the S   s,7stem hnas not been explicitly considered
because it would clearly be extremelyc great.  Additional analyses
were made on the assumption that STD tariffs were reduced below
current levels.  It was found, for instance, that even ii tariffs
were nalved. the rate of return to T&1 on the total investment
involved for 3'D would be about 42, - or still well in excess of
tihe returnr shown for the manual sy,s-Gem.
23.       In the analyses wi-th lower SI'b tariffs it was ass-ued that
thie reductions in tariff would cEuse no increase in traffic - or, in
other vord1s, that the trunk traffic woulu7 be price-inelastic.
-xperience in | .'estern _uropean countries suggests that tihe demand for
tru-nk calls is qaite responsive to price: perhaps an elasticity of
-0.5 or -0.6, for instance, ats certain studiies of U.K. data suggest.
r,owever it is daoubful naot far this experience is relevant to
Pakistan, wh',lere trank calls are so very predominantly bLusiness and
acQinistrative in nature. _ven tihouoah half-rates are available at
niE-ht and on week-enlds ancd nolicdays th1e proportion of total calls
made dluring tihese hoours is olresentl-y lcai compared, to til2t in
L iropean coLnTries. Pakistan' s current trunk tariffs and especially
t_e STI tu_riffs do appear aigh'a in international comparison.  Study
o:u. thle relationiship between 3TD tariffs andc air passen9'er fares for
the seme routes in a number of countries, for ins-tance, suggests
th-at `LSD tarif'Ls iL Pakistan are generally about twice as highl as
in othler countries.  If it is assumaed thlat trunk traffic in Pakistan
is not very price elastic - at, least for i-Lnward sh-ifts in prices -
ihen, from t'he economific poin-t, of view, it w,ould be reasonable to
conceive thie financial retu:rns to 'l'(: on Sl;D service as including
a lar-e part, o1 what in other countries is cons-umer sur[:lus, by
setting t'.riff's so hni-h, ':1i- may be capturin, most, of this potential



ANNEX 18
Page 12 of 12
consumer surplus for itself. And then the high rate of return to
STD derived here, assuaing current tariffs, would be conceptually
comparable with the approximately 60% rate of return derived for
local telephone service in the multi-exchange areas. Quantitatively,
it also appears to be of the same order of magnitude, indicating that
these are investments of roughly equal priority. This does not of
course mean that it is desirable that TOT should be using its monopoly
position to capture for itself so much of the benefit of STD service.
If dlemand is really not very price-elastic, then it would be desirable
to bring prices down closer to costs at an early date. If, on the
other hand, a price reduction would cause substantial additional
traffic to develop whichi would bebeyond the capability of T&T to
handle in the short run, then the current prices should be explicitly
recognized as rationing prices. There is then even greater importance
to bringing the prices dot^m - by carrying out the necessary equipment
expansion - for the implication is that because charges for STD
service are currently so high people are using other means of communi-
cation or making other kinds of adjustment, which may well be more
costly to Pakistan than an expansion of STD would be.  with even
slightly elastic demand, tlhen, the economic rate of return on this
STD project, assuming that it were duly expanded to meet the
additional demand that appeared, would be even greater than the
r;tc of return estimated above on the basis of current tariffs.
Conclusions
25.       Nearly 75,. of the proposed IDA credit would be spent on
works studied in some detail in this annex, and it appears that the
economic rate of return on the total investment in these various
works would be substaintially in excess of 50% . Aarginal r.tes of
return on the last rupee of investment in each of the various works
have not been calculated but it would appear that they would also
be very high in the case of telephone service expansion in the
multi-exchange areas.  They would probably be somewhat lower on any
one of the longy-distance links considered, due to discontinuities.
More general studies of the remainder of T&T's program in the supple-
mentary volume to tlhis report suggest that the overall program is
reasonably well balanced in composition. It would appear therefore
thlat the marginal rate of return on telecommunications investment in
Pakistan is high, and probably significantly above the opportunity
cost of capital there. In some lines of expansion - such as in the
multi-exchange areas - marginal returns are probably exceptionally
great. The difficulty is that, quite apart from any shortage of
financial and foreign exchange resources, the executive ability of T&T
to expand telecommunications services is limited. Demand will thus
likely remain in advance of supply if priced at tariffs calculated on
the basis of a 10-12% return to capital.  In these circumstances
prices on some services for which demand is price-elastic may need to
be raised in order to perfonr a more effective rationing function.
But these high prices should then be seen as indicative of the need
to make a major effort to expand and improve T&T's ability to provide
service.
January 21, 1969



PA K I STA N                                               M da
TELEGRAPH     a TELEPHONE       DEPARTMENT                                          OHARIPUR
MAIN   LONG DISTANCE ROUTES-WEST PAKISTAN                          *.<  Peshuvcr     c /.C  AWALPINDI
2 TUBE 960 CHANNEL COAXIAL CABLE                 *                 /   \M
CENTO 960 CHANNEL MICROWAVE SYSTEM              -                /
BILATERAL EXIM BANK PROVISIONS (C-COAXIAL; M-MICROWAVE)        / M           Khian
IDA PROVISIONS (C- COAXIALI                  r       #K                       M   / \  ,O S,olkot
/  A  F  0  H  A  N    f  5   T' A   N                                    /                   ) l o
Y L_,-S.  /  /LAHORE
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
/                       J                                   M /                     I~~~/ 
_QUETT_;rA                0/          0 Khone.oal
D.G.Khan' /d
\           // 7                      /y
J ,   Ss  Nok-Kundi                       \                              Bohowolpur  I
J5cobab;RHIMYAR KHAN              /
r                                                                                 -    SoIe/,Ie
/ _ *rS                            i \0~~~~~~~~~~    ~~Nawabshon   _~
/                              K *1 ) 1__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_- _MirpurKhasi
/ -WYDERABAD                                        EatPtso
13 H1 RADIO CIRCUITS
A1RA1 D6 fA   SEA 
0     50    100    150   200
MILES
JANUARY 1969                                                                                                      IBRD 2392R



MAi 2 
,D                A                                     PAKISTAN
7,    \. 5-TELEGRAPH a TELEPHONE                                         DEPARTMENT
z.  AMAIN    LONG    DISTANCE ROUTES. EAST          PAKISTAN
EXISTING VIP 12/60 CHANNEL SYSTEMS
MiICROWAVE LINKS UllDER CONSTRUCTION OP PROPOSED
Ong Pur              UNDER BILATERAL & EXIM.BANK CREDITS (C-COAXIAL;N-MICROWAVE)
- MICROWAVE OR COAXIAL SYSTEMS PROPOSED UNDER IDA CREDIT
Well Pak\1tan      2                    (C-COAXIAL)
Wes! Pokriston                     j 
>'   /\1    2                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sylhet   2
6AJS       DACCA;~~Mymensingh      2
Ku__/h*ti_
)       ~~~Mcgur//                        mlr 
\>JESSORE                     |2 \3
K h.ln I..
X    \                  g             <      SbCHITTAGON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HITGON
k     >            t    tMungIs       S             4~~~~~~-   t           : S n0i
,8  A   ,,       0o ,&         ,g     ,'      A  ,&---  
0     50    100    IS0   200                                                                         RNA
MILES
JANUARY 1969                                                                                            1aRD 23Q3RA



