CREDIT NUMBER 145 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 6, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 145 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 6, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated March 6, 1969, between the IsLAmic
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AsSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. I of
the Association, dated June 1, 1961, as amended February 9,
1967, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein (said Development Credit Regulations
No. 1 being hereinafter called the Credit Regulations).
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
term "T & T" means the Telegraph and Telephone De-
partment of the Ministry of Communications of the Bor-
rower and includes any other department, agency or entity
which shall perform in whole or in part the telecommuni-
cations services theretofore performed by such Department.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to tho Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the De-
velopment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.


﻿4
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Credit Regulations and in accordance with the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modi-
fied from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, until the Borrower shall
have retained the consultants referred to in Section 4.02(b)
of this Agreement in accordance with the p.roovisions there-
of, not more than the equivalent of four million dollars
($4,000,000) shall be withdrawn or committed from   the
Credit Account.
SECTIoN 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall
have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, such
amounts as shall be required to meet payments to be made)
in currencies other than currency of the Borrower for the
reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to
be financed under the Development Credit Agreement.
(b) No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
made on account of:
(i) expenditures made prior to the date of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement; or
(ii) expenditures nade in the territories of any coun-
try which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in (including serv-
ices supplied from) such territories.
SECTION 2.04. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of the Credit
Regulations.


﻿5
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (34 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 15 and Decem-
ber 15 commencing June 15, 1979 and ending December 15,
2018, each installment to and inchiding the installment
payable on December 15, 1988 to be one-half of one per
cent (I/ of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/>%)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the De-
velopment Credit Agreement to expenditures required to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods, other than services of consultants,
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the
Association in February 1968, and in accordance with such
other procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) all contracts for


﻿6
the procurement of any of the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be subject to the approval
of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used in the territories
of the Borrower exclusively in the carrying out of the
Project until the completion thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficioncy and
in conformity with sound enineerig, financial alul  ub-
lic utility practices, and shall make available, promptly as
needed, all funds, facilities, services aid other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without limiting or restricting the Borrower's obli-
gations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to T & T
on the basis of reimbursement by T & T over a period of
twenty-four years from the Effeelive Date of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, including therein a period of grace
of four years, and subject to charges of six per cent per
annum on the aggregate amounts of the proceeds of the
Credit so made available and outstanding from time to
time.
(c) Without limiting or restricting the Borrower's obli-
gations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall use its best efforts to obtain for the benefit of T & r
other loans or other financing under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association from sources outside Pakistan
and to cause T & T to apply the proceeds of such loans or
financing to meet the expenses in currencies other than


﻿7
currency of the Borrower required to carry out the Project
and not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T at all
times to conduct its operations, including its financial op-
erations, in accordance with sound management and finan-
cial practices and under the supervision of competent and
experienced management.
(b) To assist in carrying out Part IV of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower
s.dall employ or cause T & T to employ competent and
experienced consultants acceptable to the Association, to an
extent, and upon such terms and conditions as shall have
been approved by the Association, and the Borrower shall
furnish to such consultants all information relevant to
the purposes of such Part IV of the Project.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to
furnish to the Association, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the reports, plans, specifications, construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall from time to time request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause T & T to maintain
records adequate to identify the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the
Project, to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and the operations, including financial
operations, of T & T; and (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, T & T's properties
and equipment including the goods and any relevant rec-
ords and documents.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish or cause T & T to fur-
nish to the Association all such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request concerning the expendi-
tures of the proceeds of the Credit, the goods, the Project


﻿8
and the management and operations, including financial
operations, of T & T.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times cause
T & T to operate and maintain its plants, equipment and
property, and to make promptly all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
SECTION 4.05. Until the establishment of the accounting
system referred to in Part IV of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall effect no
reduction in its telecommunications tariffs without the
agreement of the Association.
SECTION 4.06. (a) After the accounting system referred
to in Part IV of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement shall have been established, the Borrower shall
establish and thereafter maintain telecommunications tar-
iffs which shall provide revenues sufficient to produce an
annual return on the net fixed assets in operation of T & T
at a rate of not less than 10%, or at such other rate as may
be agreed from time to time between the Borrower and
the Association,
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
using as the denominator the value of not fixed assets
in operation of T & _C at the beginning, and at the end
of the year in question, and dividing the total by two,
plus an amount as working capital equal to 4% of such
average net fixed assets in operation and, as the numera-
tor, the operating income of T & T for that year.
(ii) The term "value of net fixed assets in operation of
T & T" means the gross value of fixed assets in opera-
tion of T & T as revalued from time to time, based on


﻿9
appropriate valuation methods approved by the Asso-
ciation, less accumulated straight-line depreciation.
(iii) The term  "operating incone" means the dif-
ference between operating revenues and operating ex-
penses.
(iv) The term "operating revenues" means all rev-
enues from T & T's telecommunications operations and
other revenues incidental thereto.
(v) The term "operating expenses" means all costs
of operation by T & T of its telecommunications facili-
ties, including overhead costs, maintenance expenses,
and adequate provision for straight-line depreciation at
a rate of at least 5o per annum and for the contribu-
tion to the Borrower defined in Section 4.08(b) below,
but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall promptly pay to the
account of T & T's revenues, on a current basis, all charges
incurred by the Borrower or by any of its departments,
agencies or instrumentalities in respect of telecommunica-
tions services furnished by T & T.
SECTIoN 4.08. (a) Until the establishment of the ac-
counting system referred to in Part IV of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the financial
arrangements between the Borrower and T & T applicable
at the date of the Development Credit Agreement shall
continue to be applied and any change in such arrange-
ments will be subject to agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
(b) After the accounting system referred to in Part IV
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
shall have been established,


﻿10
(i) long-term debt of T & T other than under develop-
ment credit agreements entered into with the Association,
including long-term debt entered into for the benefit of
T & T to be separated from the capital-at-charge, shall
be repaid by T & T to the Borrower out of T & T's
operating revenues under the terms and conditions ap-
plicable to such debt, and
(ii) The Borrower shall cause T & T to pay aniually
to the Borrower out of its operatin' revenues a con-
tribution equal to 6%c of the Borrower i equity in T & T,
as determined with the assistance of the consultants
retained to assist in carrying out Part 1V of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or such other
percentage as may be established from time to time after
consultation between the Borrower and the Association.
(c) For the purposes of this Section, (i) the term "oper-
ating revenues" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
4.06(b) above; (ii) the term "long-term debt of T & T"
shall mean all debt incurred for the benefit of T & T which
will mature by its terms more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred; and (iii) the term "cap-
ital-at-charge" shall mean the aggregate of all funds placed
by the Borrower at the disposal of T & T, the principal of
which is not repayable to the Borrower, but which is sub-
ject to annual interest payments by T & T which are
at the date of the Development Credit Agreement equal
to 6% of such capital-at-charge.
SECTi-o  4.09. (a) Until the establishment of the account-
ing system referred to in Part IV of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall submit
to the Association, promptly upon thei-r preparation, the
annual budget accounts relating to T & T.
(b) After the accounting system referred to in Part IV
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement


﻿11
shall have been established, the Borrower shall have
T & T's accounts audited annually by competent and
experienced auditors acceptable to the Association, and
shall promptly after the audited statements (balance sheet,
operating statement and sources and uses of funds state-
ment) are available, and not later than six months after
the close of the fiscal year to which they apply, transmit to
the Association certified copies of such statements and a
signed copy of the auditors' report.
SECTON 4.10. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall fur-
nish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to: (i) the administration and
financial operations of T & T and of any other agency or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof and (ii) financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance of
the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion of (i) any proposed material changes in the structure,
organization, powers or responsibilities of T & T and (ii)
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to in-
terfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿12
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable oppor-
tunity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured the imported goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by T & T to replaco or repair such
goods.
SECTION 4.12. Prior to the completion of the Project,
the Borrower shall ensure that major expansions of tele-
communications facilities other than as provided in the
Project or in the telecommunications phase of the Bor-
rower's revised Third Five-Year Plan shall only be under-
taken after consultation and agreement with the Associa-
tion. The term "major expansion" shall mean any expan-
sion scheme or project, the total expenditures for which
are expected to exceed the equivalent of two million dollars
($2,000,000).
SECTION 4.13. (a) Until the establishment of the account-
ing system referred to in Part IV of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall not,
without prior consultation with the Association, nor with-
out its approval, incur any debt for the benefit of T & T,
other than for money borrowed for financing the Project
or the telecommunications phase of the Borrower's revised
Third Five-Year Plan under terms and conditions accept-
able to the Association.
(b) After the accounting system referred to in Part IV
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement


﻿I
13
shall have been established, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt
for the benefit of T & T, or cause any debt to be so incurred,
unless T & T's net revenues for the preceding fiscal year
or for any later twelve-month period, whichever is the
greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt serv-
ice requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt
including the debt to be incurred.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) Debt incurred for the benefit of T & T means all
indebtedness incurred by the Borrower or others, for
the purpose of financing the operations or investments
of T & T, including debt for the service of which T & T
is responsible, which will mature by its terms more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) The term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
cludes any modification of the terms of payment of such
debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement
or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
refinancing of such debt.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of T & T's
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate,
less all operating, maintenance and overhead expenses
and provision for the contribution to the Borrower
defined in Section 4.08(b) above, but before provision
covering depreciation and debt service requirements.
(iv) The term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges on
debt.


﻿14
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valu-
ation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reason-
ably determined by the Association.
SECTION 4.14. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories, and free from all restric-
tions imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in
effect in its territories.
SECTION 4.15. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registra-
tion thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Credit Regulat"ons
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Credit Regulations shall occur and shall con-
tinue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower, then,
at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the
Association, at its option, may declare the principal of
the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immedi-
ately, and upon any such declaration such principal shall


﻿15
become due and payable immediately, anything in the
Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
ARTICLE VI
Termination; Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1972, or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association as the Closing
Date.
SECTION 6.02. The date May 15, 1969 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Credit Regulations.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower uider
Section 4.01(b); 4.02(a); 4.03(c); 4.04; 4.06; 4.08(b) and
(c); 4.09(b); 4.10(a) (i), (c) (i) and (d); and 4.13(b) and
(c) of this Agreement shall terminate on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date twenty-four years after the date of the Development
Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
SECTION 6.04. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Credit Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Economic
Islamabad


﻿16
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 6.05. The Secretary to the Government of Paki-
stan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated for the pur-
poses of Section 7.03 of the Credit Regulations.
IN WITNEsS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. R. BASHIR
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. BRoCHES
General Counsel


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Maximum Amounts
Expressed in Dollar
Category                               Equivalent
A. Telephone cables, overhead line net-
works, subscribers' concentrators and
carrier systems for Part I of the
Project                                  6,800,000
B. Microwave and coaxial cable systems,
very high frequency mobile radio
equipment, open wire lines to ex-
changes and public call offices in East
and West Pakistan for Part II of the
Project                                  7,800,000
C. High frequency radio equipment, ma-
terials and supplies for Part III of
the Project                                400,000
D. Consultants' services for Part IV of
the Project                                200,000
E. Unallocated                                800,000
Total                               16,000,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories A through D shall decrease, the amount
of the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category E.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
any of the Categories A through D shall increase, an
amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated


﻿18
by the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from Category E, subject, however, to the re-
quirements for contingencies, as determined by the Asso-
ciation, in respect of the cost of the items in the other
Categories.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of part of the telecommunications
phase of the Borrower's Five-Year Development Plans and
provides for the modernization and expansion of T & T's
local and long-distance telephone facilities. The Project
includes:
L the installation of and extensions to the local tele-
phone subscribers' distribution network and the as-
sociated buildings, telephone exchange switching
equipment and accessory facilities in telephone areas
in East and West Pakistan; during the fiscal years
1969-1972, 175,000 new telephones will be added to
such network;
II. the installation of microwave and coaxial cable sys-
tems between Dacca and Mymensingh; Dacca and
Sylhet; Kushtia, Rangpur and Rajshahi; Hajigang
and Comilla; Rawalpindi and Haripur; and of a
network of open wire lines to minor exchanges and
public call offices, as well as the provision of multi-
plexing, terminating, exchange switching and inter-
connecting facilities;
111. the improvenient of the high frequency radio sys-
tem utilized for telecommunications between East
and West Pakistan, as well as for international
telecommunications;
IV. a study of the organization of T & T and of its
relationship with the Borrower and with the Tele-
phone Industries of Pakistan, which shall result in
the elaboration of a program acceptable to the Bor-
rower and the Association designed to ensure that
T & T shall be in a position to operate its tele-
communications services effectively and on the basis


﻿20
of sound financial and management principles; such
program, to be implemented by the date of com-
pletion of the Project according to a timetable
agreed with the Association, shall include the fol-
lowing:
(i) the form of control exercised by the Borrower
over T & T and its operations shall ensure that
the chief executive officer of T & T shall have
such financial and operational responsibility
as shall be required to enable him to manage
the activities and operations of T & T on the
basis of sound financial and management prin-
ciples;
(ii) T & T shall be provided with an effective ac-
counting system which would supply to T & T 's
management all information necessary for ef-
fective planning of T & T's operations and
services, including expansions thereof, as well
as for efficient control over T & T's current
operations;
(iii) the relationship between T & T and the Tele-
phone Industries of Pakistan shall be placed
on a fully commercial basis; and
(iv) all other recommendations resulting from such
study which shall have been accepted by the
Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1972.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods
1. With respect to goods in Categories A, B and C as
set out in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, required to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
under Section 3.02 of this Agreement, identical or similar
items to be procured shall be grouped together wherever
practicable for the purposes of bidding and procurement,
and such grouping of items shall be subject to the approval
of the Association.
2. With respect to all procurement contracts involving
expenditures expected to exceed the equivalent of $50,000,
the Borrower shall cause T & T to comply with the fol-
lowing procedures:
(a) Invitations to bid, specifications, the proposed terms
and conditions of contracts, and all other tender doei
ments will be submitted to the Association for review
and approval prior to the issuance of invitations to
bid, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the
analysis of bids, recommendations of the consult-
ing engineer where applicable, and T & T's pro-
posals for awards, together with the reasons for such
proposals will be submitted to the Association for
review and approval prior to making any award of
contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(c) If the final contract is to differ substantially from the
terms and conditions contained in the respective
documents approved by the Association under para-
graphs (a) and (b) above, the text of the proposed
changes will be submitted to the Association for its
review and approval prior to the execution of such
contract or issuance of such letter of intent.


﻿22
(d) One conformed copy of any letter of intent issued
and of any contract executed under this paragraph 2
shall be sent to the Association promptly upon its
issuance or execution.
3. With respect to items or groups of items expected to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, copies of all tender
documents, including invitations to bid, bid analyses and
evaluations, as well as one conformed copy of any contract
or letter of intent relating to the procurement of such
items or groups of items, shall be sent to the Association
promptly after the execution of any such contract or issu-
ance of any such letter of intent and prior to the sub-
mission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contracts or letters of intent.


