Documrent of
The World Bank
FOR OFF:ICIAL USE ONLY  FILE                    Py
Report No. 2475-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRO.JECT
Ma.y 24, 1979
Projects Department
Latín America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =  $b 20.00 (Bolivian Pesos)
$b 1.00       =  US$0.05
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAB       -    Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
CDF       -    Forestry Development Center
CIPCA     -    Central Investigation and Promotion of Farmers
CONEPLAN  -    Ministry of Planning and Coordínation
CORDEPAZ  -    Development Corporation of La Paz
DESEC     -    Center for Social and Economic Development
FOMO      -    National Manpower Services
IBTA      -    Bolivian Institute for Agricultural Technology
IICA      -    Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Sciences
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
INBOPIA   -    National Institute for Handicrafts and Small Industries
INC       -    National Colonization Institute
INFOL     -    National Institute for the Development of Wool
MACA      -    Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture
MPSSP     -    Ministry of Social Security and Public Health
PAN       -    Northern Altiplano Project
PIL       -    Industrialized Milk Plant
SNC       -    National Road Service
SNDC      -    National Community Development Service
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR, OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND ...............................................                          1
A.    Sector Characteristics, and Recent Performance ........                       1
B.   The Policy Framework  ................................                         4
C.    Main Development Constraints  ........................                        5
D.    Development Strategy  and Bank Assistance ....                   ........     7
E.    The Ingavi and Ulla Ulla Projects  ...................                       10
II.    TRE PROJECT AREA  .........................................                         12
A.    Physical Features  ...................................                       12
B.    Population Characteristics  ..........................                       12
C.    Land Tenure and Utilization .........................                        13
D.   Marketing ............................................                        14
E.    Institutional Support ...............................                        14
F.  Infrastructure .......................                                        16
III.  TRE PROJECT ...............................                                           16
A.    Introduction.                 ...............................                16
B.   Brief Description ................................,.                          17
C.    Detailed Features ................................,.                        17
D.    Project Costs  ......... ...............................                     18
E.    Financing .............       ...............................                19
F.  Procurement ...............................                                    20
G.  Disbursement ..................,........   20
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                     ....................   22
A.    Organization and Manapement  .........................                       22
B.    Training ............                ................................        24
C.    Input Supply System .................................                       25
D.    Participating Institutions  ..........................                       25
E.    Coordinating Committee ..............................                        26
F.    Lending Policies and Procedures .....................                       26
G.    Accounts and Auditing  ...............................                       27
H.    Monitoring and Evaluation ...........................                        27
V.    SPECIFICATIONS  OF FARM MODELS  .............................                      28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bolivia during October 1978. The mission comprised Messrs., N.P. Sharma,
J. Loup, C. Plaza, H. Wagner, E. von Loehneysen, Ms. de Regt (Bank) and
Mr. R. Paraud (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without Wor-ld Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION AND MARKETING ....................................                   31
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..........................................                   33
VIII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ....... ..............              ......................    34
A.    Benefits and Justífication .............................    34
B.   Fiscal Impact ..........................................                  35
C.    Economic Rate of Return and Sensítivíty ....               ............    35
D.   Project Risk ...  .......................................                 36
E.   Environmental Impact ...................................                  38
IX.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....               ........    39
SCHEDULE A - Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions,
and Flow of Funds ..............................               42
Table  1   - Phasing of the Lending Program ....                .............    46
ANNEXES
1.    Consultants' Terms of Reference .............................                 47
2.    Farm Models        ........................     .........................      48
T.1    Proposed Yearly Cropping Pattern ......... ..             ...........    51
1.2   Farm Model 1 - Crops and Dairy Investment Costs ... ....    52
1.3    Farm Model 1 - Estimated Labor Budget ....               .............  53
T.4    Farm Model 1 - Cropping Pattern, Yields, Total
Production,  and Production Value ....................               54
T.5   Farm Model 1 - Crops Operating Costs ..................    55
T.6   Farm Model 1 - Herd Projection (Group of 40 Famiíles) .    56
T.7    Farm Model 1 - Dairy Production Projection ....              ........    57
T.8   Farm Model 1 - Dairy Production Value and Operating
Costs            ...............................................     58
T.9    Farm Model 1 - Total Production Value and Operating
Costs ........ ...............          ........................     59
T.10  Farm Model 1 - Financíal Analysis .....................    60
T.11  Farm Model 2 - Crops and Sheep - Investment Costs   .....    61
T.12  Farm Model 2 - Estimated Labor Budget ....                .............  62
T.13  Farm Model 2 - Croppíng Pattern, Yields and
Total Production ................       ..      ..................   63
T.14  Farm Model 2 - Crop Production Value ..................    64
T.15  Farm Model 2 - Crop Operating Costs ...................    65
T.16  Farm Model 2 - Flock Projection (Group of
40 Families) ...... ..............           ....................    66



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
T.17 Farm Model 2 - Sheep Production Projection
(Group of 40 FamiliLes) ............................    67
T.18  Farm Model 2 - Crops and Sheep - Production
Value and Operating Costs (Group of 40
Families) ..................... ....................    68
T.19  Farm Model 2 - Total Production Value and
Operating Costs -       .................................    69
T.20  Farm Model 2 - Financial Analysis ......... ..........   70
T.21  Farm Model 3 - Crops and Alpaca - Investment
Costs ...       .........................................    71
T.22  Farm Model 3 - Estimated Labor Budget ..............    .    72
T.23  Farm Model 3 - Cropping, Yields, Total
Production         .......................................    73
T.24  Farm Model 3 - Crop Production Value ................   74
T.25  Farm Model 3 - Crop Operating Costs ....... ........         75
T.26  Farm Model 3 - Herd Projection (Group of
40 Families)         .......................................    76
T.27  Farm Model 3 - Alpacia Production Projections
(Group of 40 Families) ............ .. ...............    77
T.28  Farm Model 3 - Alpaca Production Value and
Operating Costs (Group of 40 Families) .... .........   78
T.29  Farm Model 3 - Total Production Value and
Operating Costs ......      .............................    79
T.30  Farm Model 3 - Financial Analysis ....................   80
T.31  Farm Model 4 - Crops (3.5 ha) - Estimated
Labor Budget          ......................................    81
T.32  Farm Model 4 - Cropping Pattern, Yields,
Total Production, Production Value ............   ....    82
T.33  Farm Model 4 - Crops Operating Costs ................   83
T.34  Farm Model 4 - Financial Analysis ......... ..........   84
T.35  Farm Model 5 - Crops, Estimated Labor Budg,et ........   85
T.36  Farm Model 5 - Cropp,ing Pattern, Yields,
Total Production, and Production Value ........ ....    86
T.37  Farm Model 5 - Operating Costs ........... ...........   87
T.38  Farm Model 5 - Finan,cial Analysis ......... ..........   88
T.39  Forestry Production Model - 1-ha Eucalyptus
Plantation ........      ................................    89
T.40  Cash Flow - 1-ha Eucalyptus Plantation ..........   ....    90
3.   Detailed Project Cost ......................................    91
4.   Related Documents and Datai Available in
Project File ...............................................    92
MAP
IBRD No. 14079 - Omasuyos - Los Andes Rural Development Project






BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Sector Characteristics and Recent Performance
Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Agriculture in Bolivia contributes 25% to GDP and provides employment
for about 60% of the labor force. Until 1973, agricultural growth was low,
increasing at an average annual rate of 1.9%; however, since 1973 growth rates
have averaged 4 to 6% annually. In spite of some improvement in agricultural
performance, agricultural production has not kept pace with domestic demand.
Currently, the agricultural trade balance is negative and Bolivia has to
import substantial volumes of agricu,ltural products, accounting for about 25%
of total imports. Main imported iteims are edible oils, lard, dairy products
and wheat flour, many of which could be produced efficiently within Bolivia if
improved technologies and appropriate incentives were introduced. Agricultural
exports (sugar, coffee fruits and lumber) were relatively unimportant until
1970, accounting for less than 5% of total exports, but since then, with rapid
expansion of commercial farms in SanLta Cruz, agriculture's share has gradually
risen to about 15%. In addition to these products, Bolivia has good potential
for the production of tobacco, rubbeir, cocoa, oil seeds and wool products of
sheep, llama and alpaca. Thus, with, an appropriate policy and institutional
framework and implementation of soun,d investment projects, the agricultural
sector could become an important source of employment and foreign exchange
earnings.
Production Zones
1.02      Bolivia's agricultural sector is diversified.  Tlne variety of
soils and micro-climates of the three main production zones, Altiplano,
Valles and Yungas, and Oriente, enables farmers to engage in many different
productive activities. In the Altiplano, farmers grow maialy potatoes,
quinua, barley and tubers and raise sheep, llamas, and alpacas and some
dairy cattle. In the Valles and Yungas, a number of sub-tropical crops are
grown and there are some livestock activities. In the Oriíente, the pre-
dominant crops are sugarcane and cotton and there are many medium-and large-
scale livestock operations. In the Altiplano and Valles, 'production is
still based largely on a subsistence economy, contrasting sharply with the
fast growing commercial agriculture in the lowlands, which has experienced
a rapid increase in production and adaptation of improved technologies.
However, agricultural growth in some areas of Beni, Chuquisaca and Tarnja
Departments has been low, largely because of inadequate inErastructure
investments.



-2-
Production Trend
1.03      Food Crops.  Potato is the maín staple commodity and it constitutes
the maín source of cash income for small farmers in the Altiplano and Valles.
While yields per hectare increased rapidly because new seed varieties and
fertilizer were introduced, total production went up only slowly because the
area cultivated decreased in response to stagnant farmgate prices. Corn
production increases have been limited by the size of the slowly expanding
domestic market. Barley and quinua are prevalent in the Altiplano but total
cropped area is restricted due to inadequate technology, low farmgate prices,
and a small market.
1.04      Wheat has been for many years one of Bolivia's main imports.
Although yields have increased substantially, domestic production meets only
one-fourth of consumption. Since Bolivia does not have a comparative advantage
in the production of wheat because of unfavorable climatic conditions, the
Government is not seriously engaged in increasing production. Rice production
was stimulated by the Government's rice program, which established favorable
prices and improved marketing channels. Bolivia has now become self-sufficient
in rice and exports small quantities to neighboring countries. Export pros-
pects are limited since Bolivia's rice quality is poor; however, with improved
quality, export expansion is possible.
1.05      Sugar, cotton and soybean production has led the sector's growth
in the 1970s. Bolivia has been self-sufficient in sugar since 1963 and has
been exporting small amounts. Originally, the sugar industry developed
around Santa Cruz, but, later, plantations moved north, creating serious
financial problems for the sugar industry as transport costs increased
sharply and producers successfully maintained favorable farmgate prices.
Now there are plans for establishing a new sugar mill in the Yungas closer
to the plantations and this may turn the industry around as transport costs
would be lower and productivity levels would probably be higher than in
Santa Cruz. While Bolivia has considerable potential, export prospects are
limited owing to its small size quota under the International Sugar Agreement.
1.06      Cotton production has produced mixed results.  From 1960 to 1973,
output increased from 1,000 to 37,600 tons. During the peak years, about
68,000 ha were planted in the Santa Cruz area.  However, marketing and pro-
duction problems have considerably diminished farmer interest, and, by 1977,
the area planted was only 50% of the 1973 level. By contrast, soybean out-
put rose significantly from 300 tons a decade ago to 17,000 tons in 1976,
and there are still vast suitable areas for the crop so that significant
potential remains for expanding production further. The main problems are
low technical standards, resulting in low yields, high transport costs to
processing facilities, and lack of adequate storage and drying equipment.
1.07      Present grape production in Bolivia is negligible.  It is estimated
that the total area planted with grapes is below 500 ha. Some efforts to
increase production and improve product quality have been made with IDA's
Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 561-BO). Yet domestic consumption of wine
and singani, the national wine distillate, exceeds by far domestic production
and has led to considerable imports from Argentina and Chile. Due to low



production, local processing plants operate below capacity. Prospeets for
further production increases are faverable, considering Bolivia's climate
and soils, especially in its temperate valley, but would dlepend on sizeable
investments to expand the cultivated area, with provision for technical
assistance, irrigation and appropriate market channels.
1.08      Lívestock.  Cattle produci:ion is concentrated in the lowlands,
which support 75% of the national herd. The remaining 25% is distributed in
the Altiplano and, to a lesser extent, in the Valles. The herd size is
estimated at 3.2 million head and the extraction rate at about 13%.  Although
production estimates are unreliable., it appears that Bolivia produces some
78,000 tons of beef per year, mainly for the large urban centers and mines,
and some 50,000 to 70,000 (about 10,000 to 14,000 tons of beef) head are
smuggled each year into Brazil. Given the low extraction rate and Bolivia's
vast natural pastures, there are excellent opportunities for expanding output.
Bolivia could export meat to Chile and Peru, but a policy designed to increase
beef exports will require improvements in quality and an increase in credit
and technical assistance. Cattle are slaughtered at light weights, and the
meat industry itself needs sanitary controls and chilling equipment. Improve-
ments are also needed in the transportation infrastructure and in the processing
and marketing system.
1.09      Sheep, alpaca and llama production are important economic activi-
ties in the Altiplano. Recent estimates indicate that there are about 2.2
million llamas, 300,000 alpacas and 7.5 million sheep. While the Government
made no significant effort for many years to develop alpaca and llama wool
production, even though it is an important source of foreign exchange earn-
ings, income, and employment for the rural poor, it has now, with Bank
assistance, launched a major program to foster the integrated development
of this activity. It is expected that, under the Bank project, llama and
alpaca wool production would increase substantially (para 1.36).
1.10      Dairy production has beern neglected in the past; consequently, milk
is not available in sufficient quarntity for the urban population. Additionally,
most of the fresh milk presently sold in La Paz is not pasteurized and processed
milk has to be imported. Although clairy production can be a profitable farming
enterprise, there is at present a cleficient pricing policy that depresses
farmgate prices and is probably the major constraint to increases in production.
Other constraints to the development of dairy farmas are a lack of technical
assistance and credit, adequate cat:tle feeds, and transport facilities for milk.
1.11      Forestry.  Forestry products account for about 3% of GDP and
almost 12% of total agricultural output. Out of the total forest area, some
26,000 km2 is estimated to be under commercial forestry, with a potential
volume of 500 million m3 of exportable hardwood. However, forestry develop-
ment has been impeded because of trie absence of a clear-cut policy and lack
of transportation infrastructure in the principal forest areas. In order to
correct the situation, the Government has enacted comprehensive legislation
and has established the Forestry Developrment Center (CDF).



- 4 -
B. The Policy Framework
1.12      The Government of Bolivia has had difficulties in designing a
viable agrícultural development strategy. Until recently, agriculture was
viewed as a social rather than productive sector and Government sought to
expand the economy through hydrocarbon and mineral development. The agri-
cultural sector received only little support and mínimum efforts were expended
to develop the productíve potential and export possibilities or to deal with
rural poverty. The political framework was, and still is, unfavorable for
rapid agricultural development, one of the main weaknesses being Government's
price policy, which keeps food prices artificially low to benefit short-term
interests of the urban consumers. In addition, the overvalued exchange rate
and the present tariff system distorts the input/output pricing process.
1.13      Since the late 1950s, the Government has imposed price controls
for most agricultural products because of strong political pressure from the
urban population and powerful labor unions, striving to improve the standard
of living of their members. Controlled prices were normally below the real
market price and negatively affected farmers' incentives to increase output
and investments. Adoption of new technologies and application of modern
inputs were impaired, productivity stagnated, and the price differential
between Bolivia and neighboring countries encouraged considerable smuggling.
As a result, the supply of agricultural products dropped and even exacerbated
the difference between administered price and real market price. This trend
was to some extent reversed after 1974 when the Goverament partially relaxed
its price controls on some commodities and prices moved toward their comparable
world market levels. However, prices of commodities produced in the lowlands
improved more than those produced in the Altiplano and Valles.
1.14      Bolivia's currency is overvalued, thus increasing food imports and
limiting agricultural exports. In 1972, the Governnent set the exchange rate
at US$1: $b 20, where it remains, even though prices in Bolivia increased
faster than those of its major trading partners.   Another factor disturbing
market forces is the tariff and subsidy system. Export taxes are one of the
most important revenue sources for the Government and are therefore high,
while import tariffs increase the prices of most agricultural inputs. In
addition, the Government, by providing price subsidies, has limited exports of
some commodities such as sugar and coffee and promoted imports of wheat flour,
lard, edíble oils, and dairy products.
1.15      In the last few years, however, the authoritíes have recognized the
importance of the sector and have sought to stimulate agricultural production.
The national development plan for 1976 to 1980 emphasizes food production,
eradication of rural poverty and increasing exports. However, until now the
Government has failed to transform its overall development objectives into a
detailed sector strategy and a conducive policy framework. While increased
attention is given to implementing agricultural projects with external assistance,
the Government has done little to amend pertinent policies relating to agricul-
ture. The Bank is, therefore, discussing with the Bolivian authorities the
importance of policy changes, and it has offered to carry out a detailed sector
survey in FY1980.



1.16      Interest rates for agricultural credit vary between 10 and 18%.
Commercial banks levy up to 18% for loans to farmers, and middlemen charge
as much as 10% per month for short-term borrowing. The Gov,ernment's policy
on interest rates for agriculture calls for 12% in all agricultural develop-
ment projects and does not differentiate between the small farm sector and
the commercial sector. As learned urider the Ingavi and Ulla Ulla Projects,
however, the 12% rate does not adversely affect small tarmers' incentives
to borrow funds.
C. Main Development Constraints
1.17      The Government's agricultural development strategy has to over-
come a number of constraining factors. Problems exist in the production
system and the social organization oí the sector as well as in its market-
ing system and institutional services. The main development issues are
the imbalances between natural resources and the distribution of Bolivia's
population, the low level of resource exploitation, the prevalance of the
extended subsistence economy and poverty, the lack of suppo.rting services,
and inadequate marketing.
Resource Imbalance
1.18      The main development constraint in Bolivia's agricultural sector
is the imbalance between its natural resources and the distribution of its
rural population.  While most of the country's peasants are overcrowded in the
Altiplano and Valles, vast areas in the Oriente, with its fertile soils and a
favorable climate, remain sparsely populated. The Altiplano, which accounts
for about 42% of the rural population, comprises only 28% of the country's
cultivated land and contributes 18% to the agricultural GDP. High altitude,
between 11,500 and 14,000 feet; a cold, dry and harsh climate; and low soil
fertility make agriculture risky and less productive than the lowlands.
Likewise, the Yungas and Valles also have about 42% of the rural population,
comprise 38% of Bolivia's cultivated land, and contribute soome 34% to the
agricultural GDP. The lowlands, comprising about 35% of the cultivated land,
account for only about 16% of Bolivia's rural population, but the area contri-
butes some 48% to the agricultural GDP. Its natural resources are largely
untouched, with only a small part of the total area suitabLe for cultivation
actually in use. In Beni, livestock production could be increased substantially
and the area around Santa Cruz could be developed for rainfed agriculture.
With irrigation, Bolivia's Chaco region could be developed for agriculture.
If these areas are developed, Bolivia could become self-sufficient in most
agricultural products and would be able to export relatively large surpluses.
Inadeguate Resource Exploitation
1.19      On most farms throughout Bolivia, productivity and land use in-
tensities are low and could be substantially increased, particularly in
the Altiplano. There, agriculture is still based on traditional methods:



- 6 -
practically no fertilizer nor graded or certified seeds are used and modern
farm machinery is almost non-existent. Although natural resources are
limited if compared to the lowlands, there is still scope for improvements.
Increases in yields have been achieved in areas that received adequate
levels of credit and technical assistance and constitute examples of possible
development. In the Valles, large areas have fertile soils and a favorable
climate but lack water during the dry season and, hence, produce only one
crop per year. Under irrigation, cropping intensity and yields could be
raised. Livestock and crop production in the lowlands are carried out
extensively. Yields of cotton and sugar, for example, are low, with the
total output increase in recent years due exclusively to expansion of the
cultivated area. Climate and soal fertility would support intensive produc-
tion methods and permít higher yields than are presently achieved. Moreover,
much land in colonization areas ís not cultivated since settlers lack the
financial resources for land clearing and production inputs. Supplying the
necessary services would help to expand commercial crop production.
Subsistence Economy and Rural Poverty
1.20      A major obstacle to rapid agricultural development and an important
social issue is subsistence agriculture, which, it is estimated, involves
large parts of Bolivia's rural population. Subsistence farmers have a low
cash income, virtually no access to agricultural credit or markets for purchase
of agricultural inputs, and little exposure to technological advances. On-farm
consumption usually ranges between 30 and 90% of production, depending on
distance to sizable markets.
1.21      Living standards and social infrastructure and services in rural
areas are totally inadequate: water supply or sewerage facilities are almost
unknown, housing standards are far below acceptable levels, and education
servíces are extremely limited. Low life expectancy and high mortality
rates among children are also common characteristics of the rural areas.
Supporting Services
1.22      A critical constraint to the modernization of the agricultural
sector has been the lack of an efficient agricultural credit system. This
has affected predominately small farmers but also commercial agriculture in
the Oriente. The Agricultural Bank of Bolivia (BAB), established in 1942,
is the single most important source of agricultural credit. Although BAB was
organized as an institution designed to benefit small farmers, it has gradually
arrived at a point where it concentrates on financing medium- to large-size
operations. Specifically, by December 1977, small farmers received only 5%
of the credit it had to offer. The largest share of BAB's resources has
been allocated to the lowlands, with the Oriente accounting, during the
1973-75 period, for about 87% of all loans, most of them for livestock,
sugarcane, cotton and soybean production. BAB now finds itself in a weak
financial position, due to the accumulation of loan arrears, excessive operating
costs, and, because it cannot attract domestíc savings, it must rely completely
on public and external financial support. BAB also suffers from poor manage-
ment and low quality staff.



1.23      Agricultural research and the extension services are largely
ineffective. Research has not been concentrated on specific areas nor
directed toward urgent problems. While each of the existing research
stations do have a principal focus, most stations are invoLved in both crop
and livestock experiments and have spread their research budgets over a large
number of activities. Also, research stations receive only limited financial
support and, hence, are forced to operate mainly as commercial farms in order
to generate income to sustain their operations. By and large, farmers receive
limited support from these stations and most successful farming of cotton,
sugar and soya is at the initiative of private entrepreneurs. The extension
service suffers similarly, mainly from financial problems. Budget cuts
and limitations of operational funds as well as salary reductions caused
restrictions in the services rendered and forced a large number of trained
Bolivian personnel to leave extension programs.  As a result, training of
extension staff is poor and the current ratio of extension workers to
farmers is high. Coordination between research and extension has generally
been weak, mainly because research stations operated indep,endently while
most extension workers were employed by the Ministry of Peasant Affairs
and Agriculture (MACA). To correct this situation, the Government created
the Bolivian Institute for Agricultural Technology (IBTA) in 1975, and it
now coordinates most research and extension in the country. IDB is presently
processing a proposed US$8 million loan to expand and up-grade IBTA's opera-
tions.
M4arketing
1.24      Serious marketing problems are concentrated in three areas--quality
of exports, transportation to foreign and domestic markets, and communications.
In addítion, the Government has not yet been able to design a marketing strategy
for potential export products. Insufficient transportation and storage ínfra-
structure in Bolivia makes product exchange difficult and expensive and
prevents regioral specialization. The main agricultural production areas are
still largely independent and produc:e predominantly for their own consumption.
Finally, an inadequate communication network has impeded the flow of price and
other marketing information to farmers.
D. Development Strategy and Bank Assistance
General Approach
1.25      Bolivia's agricultural sector has the potential to supply almost
all agricultural products for the domestic market and to elxport considerable
surpluses, especially in cotton, sugar, timber and livestock products. To
realize this potential, however, the Government would haveI to establish an
appropriate development strategy and policy framework, strengthen institu-
tions, liberalize existing price controls and foreign tracde restrictions and
establish a realistic exchange rate.



- 8 -
1.26      Regional complementarity and widespread poverty in the country
call for a balanced approach in terms of resource allocation and Government
support. For the lowlands, emphasis would have to be placed on increasing
production of high-value products (cotton, sugar, grapes, timber and live-
stock) and food crops and cultivating land which is presently not utilized.
In the case of the latter, the Government could promote migration from the
highlands and valleys. In the Altiplano and the Valles, the strategy would
have to focus on increasing on-farm productivity, improving resource exploita-
tion to increase domestic food supply and wool exports and improving the
living conditions of the rural poor.
Settlement
1.27      Migration from the overcrowded Altiplano and Valles to the lowlands
will be the most important factor in expanding the agricultural frontier and
balancing regional discrepancies in population distribution.  That there has
already been considerable rural-rural migration is evidenced by the fact that,
in 1977, some 290,000 people were living in rural settlement schemes, account-
ing for more than 5% of the Bolivian population. Spontaneous settlers are
the most important category, accounting for 84% of all migrants and occupying
57% of all colonized lands. The remaining areas are used for directed or
oriented settlement schemes receiving Government assistance. Generally,
resettlement schemes have been successful where conditions have been con-
ducive to developing viable farming systems and where markets are accessible.
Further, the trend in settlement schemes indicates that there is a natural
adjustment process taking place and that if conditions are favorable the
people of the Altiplano and the Valles can settle in the lowlands. The
value of the colonization process to agricultural development in Bolivia can
be seen in the following: settlement schemes account for 30% of the national
sugar production and 85% of the total rice production.
1.28      The experience of the National Colonization Institute (INC) with
organized settlements has not always been encouraging since many such
schemes did not reach the envisioned production targets and the number of
settlers leaving the project area has been relatively high. The spontaneous
colonization process for settling the tropical frontier has proved more
flexible for responding to economic opportunities than government-directed
colonization projects, but spontaneous settlers, while more successful on
the production side, usually cause serious environmental damage. Since
spontaneous settlers do not receive legal titles for their plots and there
is no production support or social infrastructure, settlers have a tendency
to move to different locations as soil fertility and yields begin to decline.
INC estimates that about 120,000 ha are destroyed annually by spontaneous
migrants with "slash and burn" cultivating methods.
1.29      Promoting migration from the Altiplano and Valles to the lowlands will
be an important element in the Bank's agricultural strategy. However, the
Government's unfavorable experiences with organized settlement and the necessity
to promote migration on a large-scale would require the Government to focus
on the existing stream of spontaneous migration by providing low cost wide-
spread assistance. Such an approach would also make an important contri-
bution to mitigate and eventually overcome environmental damages which are



- 9 -
caused by spontaneous settlers. The Bank is presently consiLdering a project
proposal in the area of Chane-Pira¡ to support the consolidation of some
20,000 families who have settled on about 800,000 ha over a períod of about
20 years. Project components would include credit, technical services, up-
grading and extension of the feeder road system and some basic social services
such as water supply and pit privies. The project would also strengthen INC.
Irrigation Development
1.30      The Government is aware that further development of the agriculture
sector requires development of water resources. It is thus prepared to under-
take its first irrigation project with financial assistance by IDA. The pro-
posed San Jacinto project in the Tarija Department would serve as an example
for possible future projects, the most likely one being irrigation development
in Bolivia's Chaco, the area south of Santa Cruz. Additionally, FAO
has identified and prepared a possible project in the Abapo-Izozog area, and,
if a pilot scheme financed by IDB is successfully implemented, the Bank could
assist in the irrigation development of an area of some 15,000 ha. Another
area with irrigation potential is the valley of Cochabamba and the Government
is now preparing a feasibility study for a multipurpose prcoject there. This
project would irrigate some 16,000 ha in the valley and make double cropping
possible.
Livestock Development
1.31      A major resource of Bolivia's agricultural sector is the natural
pasture in the lowlands since it gives the country the potential for be-
coming an international supplier of beef. The livestock subsector, however,
has been barely able to meet its limited internal demand and is in urgent
need of new long-term loans for modernizing investments. Credit and tech-
nical assistance would have to be provided for the purchase of new breeding
stock, pasture improvement and upgrading of transport facilities between
ranches and municipal slaughterhouses. The Bank has financed three projects
in this subsector. Two projects (Credits 107-BO and 171-BO) have been completed
and evaluated in the Operations Evaluation Audit, dated October 11, 1974.
While these operations have established a lending channel for the livestock
activity and have increased production and benefited many farmers, the Govern-
ment has fallen short of establishing an adequate grading and pricing system
and a viable technical assistance delivery system for the subsector.
Rural Development
1.32      Rural development strategy would have to be based on two components.
First, with promotion of migration JErom the highlands to t.he lowlands, the
population pressure in these areas could be reduced and further fragmentation
of small farms avoided. Second, assistance in the AltiplaLno and Valles would
focus on increasing productivity and raising incomes and, to this end, Govern-
ment and UNDP have agreed to prepare an integrated rural clevelopment program.
The Bank has already supported rural development with two projects: the Ingavi
Rural Development Project (Loan 1211-BO), which attempts t:o promote food pro-
duction and provide infrastructural services to small farrners in the Ingavi



- 10 -
province, and the Ulla Ulla Rural Development Project (Credit 762-BO and Loan
1510-BO), which attempts to develop wool production and handicraft potential in
an area north of Lake Titicaca (para 1.34). Bank experience with these projects
suggests that the Government should continue to design Altiplano projects
based on low investment costs per family, thus benefitting a large group of
small farmers, an approach the Government intends to follow in the proposed
development project in the Omasuyos and Los Andes Provinces in the Northern
Altiplano. The level and extent of the current investment program in the
Altiplano is reasonable and compatible with the regions' absorptive capacíty.
Institutional Strengthening
1.33      Reorganízation of the agricultural credít system would be of primary
importance in the Bank s next agricultural credit project since past credit
projects, channeling loan proceeds through BAB, have achieved only minimal
institutional upgrading. Currently, BAB is a weak organization and faces
an acute financial crisis.  While, the Government is now taking some measures
to improve BAB's equity and strengthen its top management, a comprehensive
rehabilitation program to strengthen BAB is needed.  To this effect, the Bank
is discussing a plan of action with the Government, and intends to use a
future livestock credit project to implement such a program. The creation
of IBTA and its support through IDB will improve research and extension
services. The Bank has included technical assistance components in all agrí-
cultural projects and it expects to coordinate its activities in the future
with IBTA. The establishment of the National Institute for the Development
of Wool (INFOL) under the Ulla Ulla Project is expected to bring about an
orderly development of the alpaca/llama/sheep wool industry. Also, the support
provided to the National Institute for Handicrafts and Small Industries
(INBOPIA) also under the Ulla Ulla Project, would develop and expand handicraft
activity in the rural areas. The institutional organization established under
the Ingavi Project and to be strengthened under the proposed Omasuyos-Los Andes
Rural Development Project would establish a viable institutional framework to
provide intensive and coordinated support to the small farm sector.
E. The Ingavi and Ulla Ulla Projects
1.34      Ihe Ingavi Rural Development Project (Loan 1211-BO) and the Ulla
Ulla Development Project (Credit 762-BO and Loan 1510-BO), based on an in-
tegrated system to provide basic social services, infrastructure, marketing,
credit, and technical services, are the only comprehensive programs in the
Altiplano focusing on aiding the very poor by altering deep-rooted economic
problems. Together with the proposed Omasuyos-Los Andes Project, they would
provide a comprehensive rural development program for the Altiplano Norte.
1.35      The Ingavi Project, which became effective in October 1976, was de-
signed to benefít about 4,000 small farm families through on-farm investment
(deep well irrigation systems, tractors, cattle, improved pasture, and live-
stock facilities and storage); incremental production credit (for improved
seeds, fertilizer, insecticides, and services); and technical assistance.
Additionally, most of the 10,000 familíes in the project area will benefit
from improved roads, health facilities, and drinking water and waste disposal
facilities. Until 1978, the project had encountered various technical and or-
ganizational problems and overall results were mediocre. Since Ingavi was



- 11 -
a first attempt to coordinate development efforts by cutting across insti-
tutional lines, initial progress was slow. The Project suffered most in
the production side because of (a) the unproven viability of the irrigation
system and lack of sufficient provision for drainage problems in the area;
and (b) the apparent lack of timely and steady availability of inputs, in-
cluding livestock. The lack of progress on the production side was further
compounded by the delay in the finalization of the subsidiary agreement
between BAB and the Central Bank for the credit component. However, more
recently, project implementation has improved significantly following various
decisions made by the Bank to strengthen project administration and to provide
greater flexibility in project emphasis and approach. Small farmer partici-
pation (44 groups, or 2,088 farm families) in non-irrigated agriculture is
high and communications between farmer groups and project staff have improved.
The establishment of an input supply system and a cattle acclimatization
center has strengthened the livestock program under the project and eased the
serious stortage of cattle in the project area. The infrastructure component
ís now progressing, but the development of the irrigation program is uncertain,
pending the finalization of studies relating to a pilot scheme now in progress.
1.36      The Ulla Ulla Development Project, which was declared effective in
July 1978, is progressing satisfactorily. The project, like the Ingavi
Project, is designed to help the Altiplano's rural poor. It aims at dev-
eloping the alpaca/llama/sheep agri-business complex, integrating diverse
components into a single development scheme beginning with breeding production
of the raw material and including processing to semi-finished products and
conversion to handicrafts and their marketing. The wool industry would benefit
through improvement of research, extension and farming system, improvement
and expansion of marketing infrastructure, modernization of processing facíli-
ties and development of llama dehairing technology. The project would also
finance the preparation of solar energy devices for use in the rural areas of
the Altiplano. In addition, the project would include credit for the wool
handicraft industry for about 3,400 families, mostly in the rural areas, and
would improve the living conditions of about 3,000 families in the project
area through provision of health and education centers, drinking water and
waste disposal facilities, and improved roads.
1.37      The Government has modest expectations concerning development
efforts in the Altiplano. It recognizes the difficulties in bringing about an
orderly development of the region, which is endowed with limited resources and
harsh conditions and where the population has in the past been less receptive
to change and is to some extent suspicious and unapproachable. Implementation
of rural development projects in the Altiplano implies taking more than the
usual project risks. Despite these constraints, however, there have been some
positive changes recently in the attitude and ideals of the Altiplano rural
poor toward social and economic changes. Communities have become more sensí-
tive to progress and indicate strong desires to participate in the development
process. Positive results from the Ingaví and Ulla Ulla Projects also have
reinforced farmers willingness to participate actively in development programs.
This, in addition to the Government's determination to engender development in
the Altiplano, could be the overriding factor insofar as success of rural
development in the Altiplano is concerned.



- 12 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
2.01      The Omasuyos and Los Andes provinces are located in the Department
of La Paz. Together they constitute the main part of the Altiplano Norte and
líe at altitudes ranging from 3,800 to 4,000 m above sea level. The area
borders the southeastern shore of Lake Titicaca, and covers a land area of
about 300,000 ha with a total population of about 95,000. The project area
is about 50 km from La Paz and it would be contiguous on the southern border
with the on-going Ingavi Project.
2.02      Altiplano Norte has a semi-arid mountain clímate with average annual
temperatures ranging from 4 to 14 0C. Average rainfall varies between 450
to 490 mm wíth distinct wet and dry seasons. The high mountains and Lake
Titicaca exert influence on the area's climate. Areas close to the lake
have a more moderate climate, resulting in an average of less than 150 days
of frost per annum. The risk of frost in January and February, even though
it occurs only in one or two nights, is a limiting factor for agriculture.
Generally, frost in this period is sufficient, to cause injury to potatoes and
grain crops.
2.03      Many small rivers run down from the Cordillera towards Lake Titicaca
through the project area, but many of them have no permanent flow. The most
important is the Rio Keka in the province of Omasuyos with an average flow
of nearly 5 m3 per second. Groundwater is scarce in the area, except in the
Penas Valley where soils are suitable for irrigation. Drainage is a problem
in some waterlogged areas.
2.04      About 18% of the total land area is arable but most has severe
limitations, and 32% is suitable for pasture. Soils have developed largely
from the sedimentary rocks of the region and are characterized by lack of
organic matter. Phosphorous deficiency is reportedly widespread in the area
and there are suggestions of calcium shortage in some areas. Soil erosion
problems are also pronounced in some areas due to long continued cultivation.
B. Population Characteristics
2.05      The project area has a population of about 95,000, wíth per capita
income of less tha US$100. The main language is Aymara, although most of
the population speaks Spanish. The birth rate is about 3.8% per annum, the
average life expectancy is lower than the national average of 48 years and
the level of illiteracy of those over 15 years is about 45%. Nutritional
levels are low, with estimated deficits of about 48% of animal proteins and
over 17% of daíly calorie intake.



- 13 -
2.06      Over 80% of the econoinically active population are engaged in
agriculture, with the remaining working in commerce, fisheries and handicraft
activities. Since underemployment is high in agriculture, it is estimated
that almost 40% of the farmer's family income is derived from non-farm activi-
ties. Seasonal migration for employment to La Paz and Las YuDgas is high.
Farming is carried out by family input only, both men and women play important
roles in making financial decisions, and both participate actively in produc-
tion and marketing. In the Altiplano, farmer groups constitute an important
vehicle for individual farmers to obtain credit and technical assistance while
maintaining their individual ownership of land and economic independence.
This is linked to the Aymara's social structure where groups are formed to
improve the individual's well being.
C. Land Tenure and Utilization
2.07      In the project area, there are two types of land ownership:  in-
dividual or private and communal land.  The former accounts for some 61,000
ha, or 20% of the project area, while the latter covers about 243,000 ha, or
80% (mainly for pasture), which is jointly exploited by the members of the
respective communities. Land distribution in the area, as shown below, is
skewed, with about 1.7% of the farms (over 20 ha) occupying 13.5% of the
privately owned land and about 50% of the farms (less than 2 ha) accounting
for only 10%.
Farm Size Distribution 1/
No. of       % of Total        Area           % of
Holdings      _Roldings          (ha)       Total Area
Less than 0.5 ha         4,107          22.0              911           1.5
.05 - 2 ha               5,332          28.0            5,225           8.6
2 - 10 ha                7,631          40.5           29,712         48.9
10 - 20 ha               1,469           7.8           16,709         27.5
More than 20 ha            302           1.7            8,203          13.5
Total                   18,841         100.0           60,760         100.0
1/  Source:  MACA Encuesta Socio-economica, 1976, 1977 and FAO Preparation
Report.
Most farms are highly fragmented with agricultural properties usually
comprising three or more plots located in different areas. Over 60% of the
farms are divided in more than four plots. The communal land, distributed
among 167 loosely defined communities, are of two types: the "aynokas"
(communal land for crops) and the "anakas" (or common pastures). Although
both types of land are owned by the community, the former is assigned in one
or more plots to member families for individual cultivation on a rotation



- 14 -
basis. Recently, however, these plots have become more and more an integral
part of the individually owned property, the community retaining only some
influence in decisions concerning crop rotation.  When in fallow, the
"aynoka" lands like the "anakas", can be used for pasture by all members of
the community.
2.08      Mixed farming is predominant throughout the area but agriculture
is at subsistence level with limited applications of improve technology
and inputs.  The family provides all the labor on the farm with mínimum
utilization of mechanization. Only 29% (17,600 ha) of the private land is
presently cultivated. The principal crops are potatoes and barley, which
account for about 68% of the cultivated area. Beans, Andean tubers, quinua
and alfalfa are also grown in the area. Cropping intensity is generally
restricted to only one crop per year and does not exceed 80%. Livestock is
also important in the area, amounting to about 200,000 sheep, 40,000 cattle
and 25,000 alpacas. Over 200,000 ha in the project area are in pastures, but,
over the years, they have deteriorated because of poor management and over-
grazing. It is now estimated that the maximum carrying capacity is about
0.7 animal units per ha.
D. Marketing
2.09      Given the subsistence nature of agriculture in the area, farmers
trade only a small surplus of their production. Livestock and farm products
are usually traded to the intermediaries from La Paz at the weekly and annual
fairs. Milk is sold either directly to the dairy plant (Industrialized
Milk Plant - PIL) in El Alto or transformed into cheese and sold at local
fairs. Products are transported from the fairs by small trucks to cities,
mainly La Paz. By and large, farmers receive low prices for their marketable
surplus. It has been estimated that farmers selling directly to intermed-
íaries receive less than 30% of retail prices for perishable products and
about 50% for other products. To correct this, farmers are now selling
directly to consumers in the cities where they receive significantly higher
prices. Marketing cooperatives have also been set up in the area but they
are not very successful and account for only a small volume of trade.
E. Institutional Support
2.10      IBTA is responsible for agricultural extension and research, but
both are weak, primarily because of IBTA's inadequate budget, staff and
facilities. Only three extension agents, each with their auxiliary person-
nel, are stationed in the project area to assist about 16,000 farmers, and
no veterinary services are provided.
2.11      The El Belen Experiment Station in the Omasuyos Province directs
its research program at the introduction of foreign fodder species and
production of Brown Swiss dairy cattle. The station also provides services



- 15 -
aimed at increasing the number of cross-bred cows that have a higher produc-
tion potential than the local Criollo. However, dissemination and application
of results outside the research station have been mediocre. Additionally,
the Patacamaya Experiment Station, which is closer to the Ingavi Project
area, carries out research programs oriented toward common Altiplano crops
and fodder. The station's livestock research program concentrates on sheep,
llamas and chinchillas. While some pertinent results have been transferred
to farmers, the station's overall efforts in providing support to small
farmers have been limited.
2.12      The Development Corporation of La Paz (CORDEPAZ), under the aus-
pices of the Ministry of Planning and Coordination (CONEPLAN), is responsible
for the coordination and promotion of development in the Department of La Paz,
which includes the project area. With an annual budget of over US$6 million,
CORDEPAZ invests principally in agricultural and industrial programs and basic
infrastructure and services. CORDEPAZ's overall program is complex and covers
a wide array of activities, its efforts are thinly distributed, and its
success with small farmers has been Limited. In the project area, CORDEPAZ
participates with MACA in the administration of the Northern Altiplano Project
(PAN), with total funds amounting to US$0.25 million equivalent. PAN, which
was initiated in October 1974, provides credit to small farmers in the provinces
of Camacho, Omasuyos, Los Andes, Mancocapac and Ingavi. About 4,000 small
farm families in seven cooperatives are expected to benefit: from the program
despite the fact that PAN suffers as a result of an inadequate technical
assistance delivery system.
2.13      The National Community Development Service (SNDC), which receives
financial support from USAID, is also active in the project: area. SNDC
focuses its programs on social infrastructure and on providing technical
support to farmers. It is also responsible for the implementation of the
Huarina Irrigation Project financed under the German Technical Assistance
Program. The project is located in the Omasuyos Province and will eventually
command an irrigated area of about 1,500 ha.
2.14      The main sources of agricultural credit in the project area are BAB,
CORDEPAZ, SNDC, the Center for Social and Economic Development (DESEC) and
PIL. Additionally, some farmers obtain credit from merchants, relatives and
friends. Although the demand for credit is high, less than 40% of small
farmers receive institutional credit. BAB is the major institutional source
of agricultural credit in the country, but it emphasizes primarily medium-
and large-sized farmers. On the whole, BAB has been ineffective in dealing
with small farmer credit. It has two agencies in the project area and, during
the past decade, it has accounted for less than 15% of total funds provided
for agriculture in the area.
2.15      Several private agencies such as DESEC, the Cartas Bolivianas,
and the Central Investigation and Promotion of Farmers (CIPCA) are also
active in the project area in provicling social services and assistance
to farmers for the establishment of cooperatives.
2.16      To date, various programs undertaken by agencies to provide
credit and technical support to sma:Ll farmers in the project area have
shown only moderate results, but this may well be because the actions of
these agencies were not adequately coardinated, technical and managerial



- 16 -
support was inadequate, the credit programs were weak, and the development
efforts were too thinly spread over wide areas. The proposed Omasuyos-Los
Andes Rural Development Project, with its emphasis on strong project or-
ganization and administration and development of an effective delivery
system for credit and technical assistance, would provide the framework for
dealing more effectively with small farmers.
F. Infrastructure
2.17      The project area has a main road (129 km) linking it to La Paz.
Additionally, it includes about 380 km of primary roads, about 340 km of
secondary roads, and about 1,000 km of feeder roads. Selected primary and
secondary roads are maintained by the National Road Service (SNC). Although
under the Bank's project (Loan 1587-BO), SNC plans to improve selected primary,
secondary, and feeder road systems in the area; however, further improvement
of the feeder road systems would be required. To ensure accessibility, about
50 km of feeder roads in the project area would be improved under the project
to complement the road improvement program under Loan 1587-B0.
2.18      Education facilities are inadequate but the Bank-financed Educational
and Vocational Training Project (Loan 1404-BO) will strengthen the primary and
community education system and provide vocational training in some areas of
the project. Likewise, health facilities in the project area are limited,
consisting of only 44 hospital beds. In addition, there are 11 health posts
administered by the Ministry of Health, the Methodist Hospital of Ancoraimes
and the Baptist Church. Most of these health posts, however, are poorly
staffed and equipped. A new hospital (56 beds) has been built in the area and
ís expected to open shortly. Also, water supply and waste disposal facilities
are scarce in the area, with most families obtaining water from open ditches
and unprotected shallow wells. In a few cases, people draw water from wells
located at schools, and, while they are better maintained than individually
owned wells, they also need improvement.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      The Government of Bolivia has requested an IDA credit of US$3.0 mil-
lion and a loan of US$4.0 million from the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) to help finance the Omasuyos-Los Andes Rural Development
Project as part of its comprehensive development strategy for the Altiplano,
which accounts for over 60% of the rural population. The feasibility study for
the proposed project was prepared with the assistance of the FAO/Bank Coopera-
tive Program (Report No. 39/78, BOL, August 10, 1978) and submitted by the
Government to IDA in August 1978. A list of studies and working papers relat-
ing to the proposed project is given in Annex 4. Together with the Ingavi and
the Ulla Ulla Projects, the proposed Omasuyos-Los Andes Rural Development Proj-
ect would provide the basis for a long-range program to develop other regions
of the Altiplano and the Valles. The project was appraised in October 1978.



- 17 -
B. Brief Description
3.02      The project, which is designed on a modest seale to reach the small
farm sector, would provide financing over a four-year investmínt period to
increase agricultural, livestock and forestry production. Based on the Ingavi
experience, the project is designed to reach about 6,000 low-income farm
families organized in farmer groups through provision of an integrated pack-
age, including improved credit and technical assistance, improved support
services, improved roads, and drinkirLg water and waste disposal facilities.
3.03      The proposed credit would be made to the Government, which would bear
the foreign exchange risk. The Ingavi Project Unit would be expanded and
strengthened to incorporate the Omasuyos-Los Andes Project under the auspices
of MACA and would be responsible for project implementation. For the credit,
forestry and road programs, the Project Unit would enter into operational
agreements with each respective partícipating agency, as under the Ingavi
project.
C. Deta:iled Features
Production Investment
3.04      The proposed agricultural ,levelopment under the project is based on
the Ingavi experience with respect to farmer organization and participation
and the credit and technical assistance delivery system. Production would be
augmented by improved farming practices and cropping patterns, improved pro-
duction inputs, mechanization, and a,dequate credit and technical assistance
support. Funds would be made available to about 6,000 subsistence farmers
for agricultural, livestock and forestry production.
3.05      On-farm Investments.  Credit would be provided to about 2,500
farmers organized in farmer groups for investment in livestock (cattle, sheep
and alpaca), corrals and sheds, silos, greenhouses, troughs, wells and pumps,
equipment and farm tools. Funds would also be available for the purchase of
about 12 tractors by farmer groups that could demonstrate the need as well as
the capability to operate and maintain a tractor efficiently.
3.06      Production Credit.  Incremental working capital would be made avaíl-
able to farmer groups to benefit individual farmers (about 6,000 farmers) to
cover costs of improved seeds, agricultural chemicals, oxen, and machinery
services. Funds on a limited scale would also be provided to finance other
productive activities such as fisheries and vegetable growing.
3.07      Forestry.  The forestry program would be phased over a four-year
period on about 600 ha of communally held or privately owned marginal land
to provide fuel wood, poles and construction wood, and pitprops. The program
would establish a nursery with a productive capacity of about 400,000 seedlings
annually and include a research program (funds for buildings, transportation



- 18 -
facilities, irrigation facilities, and equipment) for development of suitable
species and local expertise. About 600 farmers, participating under the proj-
ect's farm production improvement program, would receive credit for the devel-
opment of forestry.
Infrastructure
3.08      Roads.  The project would improve and maintain about 50 km of feeder
roads in the project area to facilitate communications and flow of goods and
services to and from the project area. The feeder roads to be improved would
have a platform of about 4 m wide with side ditches and culverts as necessary;
graveling for critical sections would also be provided.
3.09      Water Supply and Waste Disposal.  Potable water supply and waste
disposal facilities would be provided to about 6,000 families in the project
area. About 4,000 shallow wells, including pumps, and 3,000 pit privies would
be installed over the project period. Wells would be dug manually and each
well would be cased with a PVC pipe and provided with a concrete slab and
cover, and a hand pump. Each pit privy would consist of a hole excavated
manually, a concrete slab, and a small adobe building.
Administration and Technical Support
3.10      Administration.  The project would make provision for project admin-
istrative costs covering salaries for the Project Unit staff, overhead costs,
buildings, housing, equipment and machinery, and vehicles. Provisions would
be made for consultant services (12 man-months) to provide support in areas
relating to cheese and dairy production.
3.11      Technical Support.  A technical assistance delivery system would be
established to transfer simple, low-cost technology to individual farmers
through farmer groups. The delivery system would be based on the Ingavi
"promotores" system which has until now worked out satisfactorily and would
focus on production, marketing and simple techniques relating to farm and
livestock management practices. Additionally, technical assistance would be
provided to women in the project area for the establishment of organizations
and coordination of handicraft training. In order to strengthen the technical
support system, the project would establish a center to train project staff,
"promotores" of the extension system and farmers participating in the project.
A model farm would be set up to demonstrate improved and appropriate technology
and alternative systems of production to project farmers. In order to ensure
timely availability of dairy cattle in the project area, the acclimatization
facilities of Choquenaira and Cochabamba would be expanded.
D. Project Costs
3.12      Total project costs are estimated at about US$9.3 million, of which
US$2.5 million, or 26%, represents the foreign exchange costs. Consultant
services would amount to US$63,000, with direct cost (salaries, allowance,
travel and overhead) estimated at US$5,250 per man-month. The physical
contingency has been calculated at 10% of base cost on all investment items,
while the price contingencies (local and foreign) have been calculated on base
cost plus physical contingency, as of the end of June 1979, at the annual rate



- 191 -
of 7% for civil works and 6% for all other expenditures.  Price contingencies
on foreign exchange costs are based on Bank guidelines while the price contin-
gencies for local project cost components were calculated on the basis of the
La Paz Consumer Price Index, the only official índex in Bolivia. While other
indices, prepared internally by the Central Bank and the M4inistry of Planning
and Coord4niation, indicate higher price increases for the country as a whole,
the Pa Paz index was chosen because it is the best available proxy for prices
farmers pay for inputs and receive for products in the project area for which
La Paz is the major market.  Project cost details are in Annex 3.
Total Proiect Costa
00 S------SOrb'OOOf--------- - _    -            ---------------Us000-----------                        ¡l as.ioe
l.ocal       Foreizn             Tota1            Local         Foreiín            Total          Ex,ch,- e           c.
C.)
Proudctive Investtient
Far,- Invesrtment                              28,961.00         2,583.00        3:,544.00         1,41,8.05          129.15         1,577.20         8.9              2Pr
.ract0rs                                          72D.00         6,480.00         7,200.00            36.00           324.00           26000        90.0               '.
2r,¿ n'ion Credit                             27,;7_.00        12,857.08        40,723).00        1,393.0           642.85         2,03t._5       31.,              2n.S
orestrY                                         4-'f.80          1.497.8          5.5._60            223.09            74.89           297.98       25.1                i,g
Su.total                                     h2jI14.80l       23.407.8r1       1\5 ~.32.34       3.jlOO.74        170.89          4.271.t.3       27.4
1 i.f ras trocture
5,976.00         1,280.00        7,2ír  .01'         298.bO           64.00           36'.S0        17.e                 _
'ter Supply and Waste Disposal                3j,10o,G0        _350o.0n             0.0             155.oO           175.00           3300         53.r 
O 071. 00  4 7 3 OC                                        ___15___17_00_3_.00             53.
13to( .1 9007f,20rv 4,7 !),0C   1  .u)0  _ii3.S(o  239.00  692 .00  34.5
e.r. c'.- S ç d Teehoncal Support  4', 24 .00    10. "32.00      _3, 2e      O      7,38.'0            546.b0         2. 05 .30       20.1
__ _ _ __L   ch'1a                                      9 6 0 t            i_ _74_ _0_______
_ 1-                      l 89; ic  >c.  Sl            35,: 9 . 8 0 _  (93.24  1.956.49   7 .l.73     :5. 
1,170.4'.       2,nin.40          1.02.20            68.52           101.52           175.0'        2- .
LCf                                           22.07.60          7.960.20        3-,,l47.80        1,110.38           397.01        I.-5.!39 
,tal Pro ent Cost                            137.242.80        49.100.40       LS6.54.2O          6.872.14         ?,4S5.02         9.327.1e        2t.
E. Financing
3.13              The proposed IDA credit wouild finance US$3.0 million equivalent to
32% of the total project costs, with the remainder of the funda (US$6.3 mil-
líon) to be provided by IFAD (US$4.0 million), the Gavernuient (US$2.2 million)
and the beneficiaries (US$.1 million). The proposed financing plan is as
follows:                                                       Pr,iect inanci-L
(17S .' 00)
P,anl7 _                                 v,rue,t xrlnt   ñ Rn7einialrjes       -   hí t
Aetoaet  7.        .;mount   ___         A    OMLm-1   _.      Aáp2unt   7;         Amo.,-
ProO',cíive I'¡v&st,.ent
Ce-7 ore. itive'není                 -       -        1,246      79           30ú      19           25       2        1,577       100
Tr,,ctzera                           -       -          324      90            36      10            -       -          3, 0     100
Pr,d,ction Credit                    -       -        1,630      80          407       20            -       -        2.0'7      104
Fore-try                            0 57    53           60      20           81       27           _        _          28       l00
Sut-Lttal                        157      4        3.260       76          870      19            25       1        4          1 0
__f a t etc ' ti re
Roads                               232    64            _        _          131      36             -       -          3e3      100
later supply and waste
disposal                           211    64           _                     44      13            75      23          330      100
fl.tt-rota.                      / ;3    64                                17-  5   25            7       1             3      lOI
,'d_..1 .rr .t;e7 and Tenhn.ical
0.02l,8<3  68          -         -          852      22            -        -       2,te5       100
Totjl F,iielin  Costo               2,733     32        3,260      43        1,857       24          100       1        7,r60       100
CeetieOenenie7                        67-     34          742      44           348      21           22       1        1-7i        1008
Tl1  lroert  __tsto                 3,0Q      32        ájU        43         2,205      24          122       1        9.327       10l



- 20 -
3.14      The IDA credit and IFAD funds would cover 100% of the foreign ex-
change costs (US$2.5 million) and 65%, or US$4.5 million, of local costs; the
Government would contribute about 24% (US$2.2 million) of total project costs.
The IDA credit would cover 43% of the foreign exchange costs (US$1.1 million)
and 28%, or US$1.9 million, of local costs.
3.15      The Government would be the borrower and would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The IDA credit would be at standard terms for Bolivia, and
the IFAD loan would be on intermediate terms, with an interest rate of 4%
annually and a maturity period of 20 years, including a grace period of five
years. The IDA credit would be used to finance forestry, roads, water supply
and waste disposal facilities, and technical and administrative support (US$2.4
million, excluding contingencies), while the IFAD loan would be used to finance
the credit and forestry program (US$3.3 million, excluding contingencies).
Similar to the on-lending procedures under the Ingavi and Ulla Ulla Projects,
proceeds of the credit as well as Government counterpart funds, would be
channeled through the Central Bank to the Project Unit and other participating
agencies. Funds would be disbursed from the Central Bank project accounts
only on authorization from the Project Unit, except in the case of BAB where
funds would be disbursed against evidence of disbursement by BAB on subloans
to project beneficiaries.
F. Procurement
3.16      Contracts for the purchase of equipment and vehicles would total
US$718,550, excluding contingency. Individual contracts in excess of
US$100,000 equivalent would be procured through international competitive
bidding according to IDA procedures. Purchases of less than US$100,000 would
be procured through local competitive bidding according to local procedures,
which have proven satisfactory to IDA. Procurement of farm inputs would be
carried out by farmers through normal commercial channels because of the size
and timing of individual purchases and cattle would be procured from the
Project Unit's acclimatization center. Since road works (US$363,000, excluding
contingency) are spread out within the project area and include mainly improve-
ment in existing tracts, they would be undertaken by SNC on force account.
Civil works (US$733,300, excluding contingency) for project facilities would
be carried out through local competitive bidding procedures, which are accept-
able to the Bank. Assurances were obtained on the above during negotiations.
G. Disbursement
3.17      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of
four and one-half years as follows: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures or
64% of local expenditures for the purchase of equipment and vehicles (excluding
tractors) for the Project Unit and CDF; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
consultant services for the Project Unit; (c) 64% of total expenditures for
civil works for roads and water supply and waste disposal facilities; (d) 64%
of total expenditures for operating costs for the Project Unit and CDF; and
(e) 42% of subloans for Forestry Development.



- 21 -
3.18      The above figures include US$80,000 for physical contingencies and
US$120,000 for price contingencies; the balance of US$365,000 would be ini-
tially unallocated.
3.19      Disbursements would be supported by normal documentation except for
those for farm subloans and civil works carried out through torce account, which
would be made against a certified statement of expenditures, the documentation
for which would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by
the Government and made available for inspection by IDA during the course of
project supervision. Concerning disbursements against statements of expendi-
ture, the Project Unit, SNC and BAB have previous Bank/IDA experience, which
has been generally satisfactory. Furthermore, the Project Unit and each
participating agency would maintain a separate project account for each compo-
nent which would be audited annually by independent auditors (para 4.19).
3.20      The estimated schedule of disbursements by IDA is given below,
assuming that the date of loan effectiveness would be October 1979.
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Fiscal Year                         Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                            at End of Quarter
(US$'000)
1980
March 31, 1980                             50
June 30, 1980                            150
1981
September 30, 1980                        300
December 31, 1980                         500
March 31, 1981                            750
June 30, 1981                          1,000
1982
September 30, 1981                     1,300
December 31, 1981                       1,500
March 31, 1982                          1,700
June 30, 1982                          1,900
1983
September 30, 1982                     2,050
December 31, 1982                      2,300
March 31, 1983                          2,450
June 30, 1983                          2,600
1984
September 30, 1983                     2,700
December 31, 1983                      2,800
March 31, 1984                          2,900
June 30, 1985                          3,000



- 22 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The proposed Omasuyos-Los Andes Project is similar to the Ingavi
Project and also deals with small farmers in areas adjacent to Ingavi. Con-
sequently, the Ingavi Project Unit would be expanded and strengthened to
incorporate the Omasuyos-Los Andes Project, under the auspices of MACA, and
would be responsible for project implementation. This Unit would provide
the institutional framework for delivering an integrated service package to
the farmer groups and ensuring coordination among the principal public agen-
cies in the Altiplano. The approval of the decree and statutes, satisfactory
to IDA, for the establishment of a central semi-autonomous agency under
MACA for the implementation of the on-going Ingavi Project and the proposed
Omasuyos-Los Andes Project was a condition of negotiations. Additionally,
an assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Government would
not modify the decree and statutes creating the Project Unit without IDA's
concurrence.
4.02      The Project Unit would consist of Central Administration and inde-
pendent Sub-Project Units for the technical implementation of the Ingavi and
Omasuyos-Los Andes Projects. The Ingavi Sub-Project Unit would be located
in Viacha and the Omasuyos-Los Andes Unit would be located in either Achacachi
or Huarina, the main urban centers of these project areas. The Central
Administration would consist of the Board of Directors, a Project Director, an
Administrative Unit, a Monitoring Unit and would include consultant services.
It would also include the technical unit for the implementation of the water
supply and waste disposal program under the Ingavi and Omasuyos-Los Andes
Projects. The Board of Directors would be the same as that for the Ingavi
Project and would be composed of representatives of MACA, CONEPLAN, Ministry
of Finance, Ministry of Public Realth, CORDEPAZ, BAB, the Project Director and
Sub-Directors, and a representative of the project farmers. The representative
of MACA would be the chairman of the Board and the representative of CORDEPAZ
would be the vice-chairman. The Board would be primarily responsible for
formulating policy and project guidelines, approving a general credit policy
and lending criteria, approvíng annual work programs and budgets, approving
salary scales and benefits for project staff, and ensuring coordination with
other agencies.
4.03      The Project Unit would be headed by a nationally recruited Project
Director who would report directly to the Board of Directors and who would
have extensive experience in administration and agriculture with emphasis on
the small farm sector. He would be responsible for day-to-day activities and
for programming and achievement of project objectives. He would coordinate
the hiring of staff, preparation of annual work plans and budget, participa-
tion of public agencies in project works and procurement of goods. The
Project Director would also be supported by a small core of highly qualified
staff and internationally recruited specialists already hired under the Ingavi
Project.  The appointment of a Project Director with qualifications and experi-
ence acceptable to IDA was a condition of negotiations.



- 23 -
4.04      For the technical aspects of project implementation under the Ingavi
and Omasuyos Projects, the Project Director would be supported by the Sub-
Director of each of the projects. Akppointment of Sub-Directors for the Ingavi
and the Omasuyos-Los Andes Projects, with qualifications and experience accept-
able to Ii \, will be a condition of Board Presentation. Furthermore, assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that, until three years after the
project's closing date, any replacemnents for the Project I)irector and Sub-
Directors would be subject to IDA approval. To expedite procurement of goods
and services by the Project Unit's Central Administration, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government would establish a Procurement
Committee within the Project Unit to be responsible for acquiring goods and
services under the project, that the Project Unit would not be subject to
import restrictions, and that any duties on goods imported by the Project Unit
would be paid for with funds provided by the Government. Funds for the
purpose could be provided in advance to the Project Unit or the Unit could
make the payments and claim reimbursement from the Governnent.
4.05      The Sub-Director of the proposed Omasuyos-Los Andes Project would be
an experienced Bolivian professional with a sound backgrolnd in agriculture and
administration of rural development programs.  With primary responsibility for
the technical aspects of project implementation, he would prepare annual work
programs and budgets, coordinate hiring of staff, supervise the technical
assistance and credit operation, and coordinate the participation of public
agencies in project implementation. The Sub-Director would be supported by
a staff consisting of one economist-statistician, one senior agriculturalist,
25 extension personnel, five agriculture and livestock specialists, five
credit personnel, and administrative and support staff. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would provide the Project
Unit staff with adequate incentives and that total remuneration would be high
enough to ensure that the Project Unit could attract and retain highly qualified
personnel. In order to avoid serious delays, the Unit would have a small
petty cash fund to be used by the Sub-Director for project purposes. The
Project Unit would also be supported by an internationally recruited specialist
in cheese and dairy production, corLtracted for 12 months, and an assurance was
obtained at negotiations that the slpecialist would be employed by July 1, 1980
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
4.06      New offices and storage and housing facilities would be provided
for the Omasuyos-Los Andes Sub-Project Unit. The Omasuyos-Los Andes Unit
would have two line divisions--Agriculture and Extension and Credit. The
main responsibility of the Agriculture and Extension Division would be to
implement the ¿rop and livestock program and provide technical assistance to
farmers. The Division would be staffed by a Division Chief; five specialists
for crops, livestock and extension: five zone chiefs; 18 extension agents;
two social workers; and support staff. Priority for selection of extension
personnel would be given to those who are fluent in Aymara and familiar with
local conditions and attempts would be made to recruit some women. For
logistic purposes, the project area would be divided into five production
zones, each of which would have a zone chief, three extension agents and one
credit officer. Each zone chief would supervise and coordinate all the
field and operational activities of his area and would report directly to
the Division Chief.



- 24 -
4.07      The technical assistance delivery system would be similar to that
used in Ingavi, which is now working out satisfactorily. By year 4, 18 exten-
sion agents would be employed to work directly with about 6,000 beneficiaries.
These extension agents, however, would be supported by "promotores" selected
from farmer groups. It is expected that each group would elect two promotores,
preferably a man and a woman. The promoters would not be paid directly for
their work but would receive production obtained from demonstration plots or
seeds provided by the Project Unit to promote higher yielding varieties. The
promotores would assist extension agents to (a) expedite the rate of adoption
of improved farming systems; (b) reach a large number of farm families;
(c) develop farmer confidence; and (d) acquire feedback data from the field.
4.08      The extension staff would assist in forming farmer groups, and would
provide technical support to farmers in management decisions relating to crop
and livestock development programs, on-farm investments, factor and product
marketing and implementation of production management systems. Additionally,
the extension agents would aid farm families in preparing farm investment plans
based on improved farming systems and practices, farmer's resources and capa-
bilities, and market potential of farm products. Group leaders would be
assisted in the preparation of subloan applications and related documents.
Farmers would also be provided with veterinary services and assistance in
the form of acquiring dairy cattle and training in the use of simple proce-
dures for control and prevention of parasites and other diseases. A demon-
stration program would be established to show farmers the benefits under con-
ditions of improved farming methods and systems (improved cropping pattern,
seeding rates and spacing, improved land preparation, and planting and harvest-
ing dates). The extension staff would also promote credit and maintain
close liaison with the El Belen Experiment Station in the project area. To
facilitate the work of the extension personnel, vehicles, motorcycles, audio-
visual aids and radio communications would be provided.
4.09      The Credit Division would be responsible for the implementation
of the credit program (promotion, preparation of farm investment plans and
loan applications, loan application processing, and supervision). The Credit
Division would consist of a division chief, one accountant, one bookkeeper
and support staff and five credit officers, one for each zone.
B. Training
4.10      The Agriculture and Extension Division, in collaboration with
IBTA, would be responsible for planning and organizing training courses for
extension staff, promotores and farm families. These courses would focus on
technical aspects relating to agriculture and livestock development, credit
promotion and supervision, preparation of farm investment plans, and delivery
of technical assistance to farmers and would be given at a training center
to be constructed at the El Belen Experiment Station and managed by the
Project Unit. A 5- to 10-ha model farm for crops would be located adjacent
to the training center for field demonstrations and to provide practical
experience to participants of training courses.



- 25 -
C. Input Supply System
4.11      In víew of the scarcity of inputs from commercial sources, the
availability and quality of inputs would be assured by the Project Unit, which
would initially be responsible for the procurement and distrloution of inputs
that are not readily available in the project areas. The main input supply
system would be located in Viacha and storage facilities would be established
in either Achacachi or Ruarina for the Omasuyos-Los Andes Project.  To this
effect, assurances were obtaíned during negotiations that t:he Project Unit
would continue to maintain the revolving fund for input supply, as established
under the Ingavi Project, and that the Government would increase this revolving
fund from US$120,000 to US$200,000 to ensure sufficient and timely availability
of inputs to project farmers. During project implementation, farmers in
the project areas would establish their own input supply system. Assurances
were obtained that the Project Unit, in collaboration with DESEC, would
establish and provide technical assístance to a Central Cooperative and that
the Project Unit would submit to IDA by December 1, 1982 a proposal outlining
the terms and conditions, including a timetable, under which the Project
Unit's input supply program would be transferred to the Central Cooperative
for supplying inputs to farmers in Altiplano Norte.
4.12      The acclimatization facílities of Choquenaira and Cochabamba would
be expanded to ensure timely availability of improved dairy cattle in the proj-
ect areas. Assurances that the Project Unit would maintain separate accounts
for the input supply system and the acelimatization center and that it would
establish cattle príces at sufficient levels to recover its investment and
operating costs were obtained at negotiations.
D. Partlcipating Institutions
4.13      SNC would be responsible for the road program, while CDF would imple-
ment the forestry component under the project. The Project Unít would enter
into operational agreements with SNC and CDF for the implementation of each
of the respective components.  The signing of an agreement with the concerned
entity, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of dísbursement for the com-
ponent involved. Additionally, assuirances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would cause SNC to (a) prepare by April 1, 1980, a study,
including a timetable, satisfactory to IDA, for the improvement of about 50 km
of feeder roads in the project area; (b) improve by December 31, 1980 the
sections of the road between Achacachi and Ancoraimes to ensure accessibility
throughout the rainy season; (c) utilize the Ingavi Project road equipment
for the improvement and maintenance of about 50 km of feeder roads; and
(d) maintain the project roads during and after the project period.
4.14      BAB would be responsible for the disbursement and collection of
subloan repayments. Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that, under
the credit program (a) a subsidiary agreement between the Central Bank and
BAB and a contractual agreement between the Project Unit and BAB, satisfactory
to IDA, had been signed, and (b) the Government had established a credit
revolving fund ln BAB, amounting to about US$100,000, for the execution of



- 26 -
the credit program and set rules and guidelines for its operation. To
facilitate the implementation of the credit program, BAB would open a regional
agency in either Achacachi or Huarina where the Omasuyos-Los Andes Unit would
be located and provide it with the necessary staff, furniture and equipment.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.15      INFOL, INBOPIA, and the National Manpower Services (FOMO) would pro-
vide support to the Project Unit's extension service to promote farmer parti-
cipation in the handicraft activities. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the Government, by April 1, 1980, would cause the Project
Unit to enter into a contractual arrangement with INFOL, INBOPIA and FOMO for
the promotion and development of handicraft activities in the project area.
The Project Unit would receive support and advice from the Ministry of Social
Security and Public Health (MPSSP), as under the Ingavi Project, for the
implementation of the water supply and waste disposal facilities component.
E.  Coordinating Committee
4.16      A Coordinating Committee, consisting of representatives from the
project staff and beneficiaries, would be set up to improve communications
between project personnel and farmers and to ensure direct farmer participation
in project planning and implementation. The Committee, which would be chaired
by the Sub-Director, would function at an advisory level on matters relating
to programs undertaken by the project and any outstanding issues which might
arise between project management and farmers. Assurances on the above were
obtained during negotiations.
F. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.17      On-farm investment and production credit would be channeled through
BAB, which would be primarily responsible for the disbursement and collection
of funds, and for its services, BAB would receive a margin of 3% on subloans
to farmers. The credit delivery system would be similar to the pattern
successfully implemented under the Ingavi Project. To avert duplication of
efforts in the project area insofar as providing credit is concerned, assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that no further CORDEPAZ, MACA, or SNDC
agricultural credit funds or funds under any other Government financial
assistance programs would be committed in the project area. The Government
through BAB would make production credit available each subsequent year
for reapplication under the credit program. IDA disbursements for crop pro-
duction in 1980 would begin only after the total production credit exceeded
the aggregate amount extended in the preceding year in the project area under
the project. In each following year, disbursements for production credit
would be made only against credit in excess of the amount extended by the
project during the previous year.
4.18      Subloans would be to farmer groups, and all members of a farmer group
would be collectively responsible for the repayment of the subloan. Subloans
would be for the purchase of livestock (cattle, sheep and alpaca), corrals



- 27 -
and sheds, silos, wells and pumps, equipment and farm tools, improved seeds,
agricultural chemicals, oxen, machinery services, forestry, fisheries and
vegetable growing.  Subloan maturities for on-farm investments would not exceed
six years, with grace periods up to two years. Likewise, subloan maturities
for production credit would not exceed 15 months, with no grace period. The
maturity au±d grace period of subloans to approximately 600 farmers who would
be integrating forestry activities into their farming systems would be deter-
mined by the Credit Division on a case-by-case basis. The interest rate on
the subloans would be 12%. Under Bolivia's current rate of inflation, esti-
mated at 15 to 18%, the proposed interest rate is negative.  However, the
proposed interest rate is considered justified because: (a) it ís compatible
with the general interest rate level for agricultural credit; (b) it is in
líne with the rates charged under Ingavi and Ulla Ulla; (e) prices for
agricultural products that are produced in the project area have increased
considerably less than the general price index; and (d) credits would be
given to the poorest segments of the Bolivian population. For subloans to
farmer groups, security would be in the form of chattel mortgages on the
crops, farm equipment and implements and livestock and any other assets as
required, plus the joint liability of each member of the group. The Project
Unit would follow the lending procedures, terms and conditions outlined in
Schedule A. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
G. Accounts and Auditing
4.19      The Project Unit would maintain separate project accounts, with sub-
accounts for each project component. Similarly, participating institutions
responsible for implementing a projject component would also maintain separate
project accounts. Assurance were obtained during negotiations that the
Project Unit and the participating institutions would maintain separate proj-
ect accounts which would also be audited annually by independent auditors,
satisfactory to IDA, according to procedures acceptable to IDA, and audited
reports would be forwarded to IDA within four months of the close of each
fiscal year.
E. Monitor:ing and Evaluation
4.20      The Monitoring and Evaluiation section already set up under the Ingavi
Project would be centralized and responsible for maintaining a continuous study
of project activities and performance. The section would employ a simple and
comprehensive system for collecting data that would assist management in
decision-making. Data would be analyzed to evaluate the social and economic
impact of the project, the effectiveness of the credit and technical assist-
ance delivery system, and whether or not project targets for the various
components were beíng achieved. Extension agents would provide input in the
above exercise, gathering data during the preparation of the farm investment
plans and subloan applications and during field visits.
4.21      The work of the Monitoring and Evaluation Section would be comple-
mented by the Government's proposed "monitoríng system" for the Altiplano
Norte. The Government has requested a grant under IFAD's technical assistance



- 28 -
program for the establishment of an independent monitoring system for the Alti-
plano Norte for conducting baseline surveys and evaluating the socio-economic
impact of the Omasuyos-Los Andes, Ingavi and Ulla Ulla Projects. IFAD has
indicated its willingness to finance such a program and is now awaiting Gov-
ernment's detailed proposal for an independent monitoring system. It is
expected that the proposed program could begin by January 1980. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the above monitoring program would
be acceptable to IFAD and IDA.
4.22      The Project Unit would prepare quarterly progress reports on proj-
ect performance and prepare a project completion report. Assurances were
obtained that the Project Unit would send quarterly progress reports to IDA
within two months of the end of each quarter and that a project completion
report would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after project
completion.
V. SPECIFICATIONS OF FARM MODELS
5.01      The principal objective of the farm development program is to increase
food production and help small farm families become commercial entrepreneurs
and thus increase their income levels. The farm development program is based
on improvements of farming systems and the farming practices currently used
rather than on major technological changes. The gradual introduction of both
improved farming practices and the use of credit supported with technical
assistance would provide the impetus for increased farmer participation and
ensure farmer acceptance. As an approximation, five farm models are outlined
in Annex 2 to illustrate expected progress of the farm development program and
show the expected financial returns to the farmer.
Cropping Pattern and Intensity and Livestock Activities
5.02      The recommended cropping pattern includes crops that are typically
grown in the area. Under the proposed cropping pattern, fallow land would be
brought into production, thus increasing cropping intensity. Full development
of project implementation would be reached in the fourth year for crops and
during the eighth year for livestock.
5.03      In the proposed crop-livestock farming systems as depicted in the
models for dairy cattle, sheep and alpaca, emphasis would be given to increas-
ing the area planted with potatoes, since higher productivity can be achieved
with comparative ease and potatoes are readily marketable; quinua, which has
a potential cash value and high protein content for human consumption; broad
beans, which are used for human consumption as well as for animal feed; barley,
traditionally an important fodder crop that does relatively well on the Alti-
plano; and alfalfa, grown for fodder and also useful in crop rotations due to
its nitrogen-fixing properties. About 10% of the beneficiaries would include
forestry to produce both fuel and construction wood. Each participant, on
the average, would establish forestry on 1 ha of land. The 1-ha model used
to illustrate the forestry system would be planted on communally held or pri-
vate marginal land that cannot be cropped or profitably grazed. Trees would
be harvested in 10-year rotations on one-tenth of a hectare each year, beginning



- 29 -
seven years after planting, and would provide enough wood to satisfy the fuel
and construction demand of a family a.s well as generate additional cash. It
would not be necessary to replant after harvest as Eucalyptus sprouts again.
The plantation would be included ín t.he global farm plan and credit would be
provided for the initial investment.
5.04      In the sheep or alpaca models, crops would account for about 2 ha
of the 3.6 ha used and the remaining 1.6 ha of pasture would be fertilized so
that the carrying capacity could increase from 0.7 to 1.2 animal units per ha.
In contrast, the dairy cattle farming system would place more emphasis on
fodder such as barley and alfalfa due to the high nutritional requirements
of dairy cattle. In addition to the 3.6-ha farm, each family would have access
to 11 ha of communal, unimproved pasture land which would have a carrying capa-
city of about 0.7 animal units per ha.. Under improved crop farming systems,
potatoes and quinua would be the prin.cipal crop, while the areas for other
food and fodder crops would remain al.most unchanged. Based on the proposed
farming systems, cropping intensity for the 1.0-ha crop model would increase
from 88% to 100%; for the 3.6-ha models (both for crop only and crop-livestock
models), cropping intensity would increase from 69% to 100%. The proposed
cropping pattern and intensity for ea.ch model are outlined :in Table 1, Annex 2.
Yields and Prices
5.05      Yield assumptions are based. on those currently obtained by farmers
in the project area that receive technical assistance from CORDEPAZ and MACA.
Farmers participating in the adjacent Ingavi Project have similar yields.
Nonetheless, crop yields are projected to increase gradually over a four-year
period to account for both the probable reticence to techical assistance that
is expected and losses due to periodic adverse conditions inherent in the Alti-
plano. Yields for crop and livestock used in the farm deve.lopment models are
as follows:
Crops
With Project
Without      -------------Years--------------
Unit          Pro¡ect      1         2         3          4
Potatoes            kg/ha         4,000      4,400    5,300       7,000      8,000
Oca                 kg/ha         2,500      2,500    2,500       2,550      2,600
Quinua              kg/ha           500        590       650        790        850
Broad Beans         kg/ha            550        650      750        800        850
Barley (hay)        kg/ha         2,700      3,500    4,200       4,600      5,000
Alfalfa (green)    kg/ha          6,300      6,300    7,500    10,000    12,500
Livestock
With Project
Without   ----------------Years-------------
Unit     Project       1      2       3      4        5    12
Wool             kg/animal    0.76       0.76   0.80   1.20   1.50    2.50   2.8
Alpaca fiber    kg/animal    0.80        0.80   0.80   0.82   0.85    0.97   1.14
Milk             lt/cow/day   3          3       5      6       8       8       8
Farmgate prices have been used in costing inputs and evaluating output.



- 30 -
Labor and Energy Requirements
5.06      The average size of the farm family is five persons, equivalent to
2.25 working adults or to about 45 man-days per month, giving a total of 540
man-days of annual family labor availability. This supply of labor is more
than ample to carry out the proposed agricultural programs. Tables, 3, 12,
22, 31 and 35 of Annex 2 show the estimated labor budget for each farm model.
5.07      Most energy requirements for farm work are presently supplied by
oxen although a few tractors are being used in the project area. Farmers
also increase incomes by fattening working oxen and selling them for slaughter.
Provision for purchase of oxen and tractors would be made under the project.
Farm Investments
5.08      There are few farm investments items envisaged under the proposed
farm development program. No investment is foreseen as necessary for those
farmers that are dedicated exclusively to crops. Alpaca and sheep farmers'
investments would consist of holding corrals, hand shears, alpaca fíber-
holding tables, and rams. Dairy farmers that follow the proposed model
would require the largest investments, which would include: a small milking
barn, a bull and three pregnant heifers, a water well and pump, milk pails,
and a kettle.
New Farm Practices
5.09      All five models are based on existing farming practices that would
be upgraded. Such practices as use of improved seed; plowing to sufficient
depth; seeding at proper space and depth; and seeding and harvesting on the
most appropriate dates would be quickly adopted and would have the most imme-
diate impact on productivity and overall production. Fertilizers, weed
killers and fungicides, which depend to a greater degree on the input cost-crop
production value ratio, would probably be introduced more gradually. Technical
assistance for sheep and alpaca would mainly involve introducing simple manage-
ment practices such as shearing techniques, parasite control and prevention,
vitamin and mineral provision, introduction of schedules for breeding and
calving, and, at a later stage, the introduction of selected breeding stock.
For dairy cattle, technical assistance would center around introducing practices
such as milking with two hands, milking twice a day, planning breeding and
calving dates, increasing the lactation period from 180 to 240 days and applying
disease prevention measures.



- 31 -
VI. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
Production
6.01      The annual production of about 6,000 farmers participating in the
project would be as follows:
----Production in Tons-----
At Full
Product                         Present          Development
Potatoes                           8,040               31,600
Oca                                1,500                1,560
Quinua                               265                1,169
Beans                                584                1,340
Meat (mutton)                          23                 139
Milk (in thousand liters)            540                8,280
Wool                                    1.4                16.4
Alpaca Fiber                            1.8                 7.8
Forestry (m3)                          -                2,400
Marketing
6.02      Under present conditions, given the subsistence nature of agriculture
in the area, farmers sell only a small part of their agricultural output.
Products that are traded are usually sold to intermediaries from La Paz at one
of the 16 weekly rural fairs in the area; the products are then transported by
trucks to the cities, mainly to La llaz. Even though a fair degree of competition
exists among these collectors, farmers often receive only a small percentage of
the La Paz retail price. This is apparently due to the high commercialization
costs, which, in turn, are caused by the small-scale operation of most collec-
tors and frequent transport and wastage problems. Attempts by the farmers to
by-pass these collectors and sell d:írectly to consumers in the cities have
been only moderately successful. When undertaken by individual farmers, this
operation is costly and time-consurwLng; efforts to organize farmers' coopera-
tives to undertake this marketing have not been very successful. However,
under the project, support would be provided to the Central Cooperative and
farmer groups to improve marketing Eunctions.
6.03      Marketing prospects for potatoes appear satisfactory.  Tentative
results of an on-going study by MACA indicates that the country will experi-
ence a growing deficit in the next few years, when consumption should out-
strip production possibly by 100,000 tons, much in excess of the incremental
production of the project (about 31,600 tons).
6.04      Part of the milk now produced in the project area is sold to PIL,
which processes it into dairy products before selling it in La Paz.  Sone of
the milk also finds its way, in a non-pasteurized and often adulterated form
to La Paz (in spite of a law forbidding the sale of non-pasteurized milk).



- 32 -
Also, some farmers process their milk into cheese which they sell at the
local fairs. There is considerable scope in demand for increasing milk
production in the Altiplano, mostly in order to cater to the market of La Paz.
In 1975, for instance, consumption of milk and dairy products in La Paz
amounted to a daily average (expressed in milk equivalent) of some 86,400
liters which was mostly imported.  Only 7,500 liters, or less than 9%, came
from the Altiplano (1,500 liters through PIL, and 6,000 liters through other
intermediaries).
6.05      Channeling of any future increase of milk production in the Alti-
plano to the market of La Paz through the PIL plant appears both the easiest--
because of existing collection facilities--and the safest way to satisfy con-
sumer demand in La Paz.  Unfortunately, however, the Governnent-imposed
prices PIL could pay farmers for milk discouraged them from selling to the
pasteurization plant. PIL now pays $b 3.8 per liter of milk (with a 3.4% fat
content).  Alternatively, farmers can sell their milk to intermediaríes at
$b 4.5 to $b 4.8 per liter or process it into cheese to be sold at a price
amounting to $b 4 to $b 8 per liter of milk used. As a result, direct sales
to PIL are low and the plant works below its capacity. In 1976 the plant,
with a daily capacity of 55,000 liters, processed only an average of 16,700
liters per day utilizing 30% of its capacity. The Government justífies hold-
ing PILUs buying prices down because of the necessity to maintain low milk
prices for the consumers in La Paz. This objective, however, is only partially
achieved since PIL sells only one-fourth of the milk and dairy products con-
sumed in La Paz, while the rest, mostly imported, is sold at much higher prices.
Under the present situation, it therefore appears thac PIL would not be able
to buy a sizable share of the milk produced in the Altiplano, particularly in
the project area. However, under the Ingavi Project, the Government has under-
taken to prepare a comprehensive plan for the development of milk production
in the Altiplano which would include establishment of a pricing policy that
would insure sufficient incentives to milk producers.  In any event, -marketing
the incremental production under the project should not be a problem.
6.06      Incremental quinua production under the project would be small and
should be sold without difficulty. There is a shortage of quinua in the coun-
try, which already makes it difficult for wheat flour dealers to comply with
a Government regulation that calls for 5% of quinua to be mixed with the flour
to improve the nutritional value of wheat and save foreign exchange on wheat
import. This regulation is usually evaded, however, because of the present
shortage of quinua. Also, the Inter-American Institute for Agricultural
Sciences (IICA) plans to establish in Huarina a pilot processing plant, with
a capacity of 50 tons of quinua, and the World Food Program has agreed to
purchase the output of the plant for its programs in the country.
6.07      Livestock would be sold to collectors, either at fairs or directly
at farmgate, and trucked to La Paz for slaughter and distribution to butchers
and supermarkets. Alpaca fiber would be sold to INFOL, which is in charge
of promotion of alpaca and commercialization of alpaca products and has pur-
chasing centers throughout the Altiplano. Increase of production for other
products (oca, beans, wool) would be small and should be marketed through
the existing channels without difficulties.



- 3:3 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
7.01      Income of the farmers participating in the project would increase
significantly. As shown below, the increase in cash income would provide
sufficient incentive to the farmers to participate in the deve±opment program.
Farmers' Cash Income
Without       With Benefit of         Cash Investment
Project       Full Development 1/    Cost per Family
_____--------US$ per family-----------------
1-ha Crop Model             107                  248
3.5-ha Crop Model            151                 908                     -
Sheep-Crop Model             113                 847                    34
Alpaca-Crop Model            121                 889                    70
Dairy-Crop Model             344               1,976                2,000
1/   Year 4 for crops and year 9 for animal products.
Farmers' cash income includes remuneration of family labor but does not include
family consumption of foodstuff, wool, and alpaca fiber.  This home consump-
tion has been estimated on the average at US$150 per family without the
project; it was also assumed that, with the project, food consumption would
increase by some 20%.
7.02      Investment and incremental operating costs would be covered by
credit. In the case of dairy investunent, farmers would contribute $b 500 in
cash toward the cost of the water pump. In the case of the two crop models
(1 ha and 3.5 ha, respectively), investment costs would be nil. For the
proposed farming systems, farmers' contribution in kind or labor (not covered
by credit) would be small and the firnancial rate of return on the farmers'
own capital would be above 100%.
7.03      The high financial rates of return are due to the fact that the
investnent per family is small and its gestation period short. Production
increases are rapid and quite substantial since technological improvements
(farmiíng systems and practices) coupled with improved technical assistance,
would be applied to a subsistence agricultural base. The substantial in-
creases of family income expected should not, however, obscure the fact that,
even at full development, average income per capita would remain much under
the national average of about US$540.
7.04      The financial return of the forestry activity based on a 1-ha
system would be 12%. However, farmers in the project area would integrate
forestry activity into their improved farming systems. The land to be
afforested would be marginal, uncultivated land with no alternative pro-
ductive potential, and most of the farmer's required work would be done
during the slack season.



- 34 -
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits and Justification
8.01      The proposed project is designed to reach about 6,000 families who
live in absolute poverty and who until now have received only limited assistance
for economic and social advancement. The project is replicable in the Altiplano
region, inasmuch as it reaches many small farm families at low overall cost
per beneficiary (US$1,550 per beneficiary). The project area links the areas
of the Ingavi and Ulla Ulla Projects, which, together, constitute the northern
Altiplano, accounting for almost 40% of the Altiplano's total population. The
economic difficulties of this region, the poorest of the country, are compounded
by a fast increasing population density. Average family income in the project
area is less than US$100 per capita. Some 85% of the project area's rural
population--about 16,000 families--belong to the poverty target group.
8.02      Under the Government program for reforestation and road maintenance,
new jobs for unskilled workers would be created. The biggest project impact
on the employment situation, however,would be in the farms where more labor-
intensive cultivation methods would be promoted. On the average, the number
of days of productive employment would be increased by 46 working days per
farm over the present situation, which would reduce the present unemployment
and underemployment of the family work force. In no case, however, would
hired labor be required.
8.03      The value of incremental project production has been estimated at
US$7 million per annum. This production will consist mainly of food crops,
which would be mostly marketed but partly consumed by the families, thus
improving the nutritional levels. Cropping patterns under the project have
been modeled after existing ones to ensure an easier accceptance by the farmers
and to increase their own supply of staple foods. The health situation of
the participating families would also benefit from drinking water supply and
waste disposal facilities which would be provided under the project. Sales of
the farmers' marketable surplus would improve the supply situation in La Paz
for some of the basic food items. Increased supply of milk to the PIL plant
in La Paz, if the Government increases milk prices, would also help the
development of a dairy processing industry, which, so far, has been working
below capacity, mostly with imported powdered milk.
8.04      By increasing the integration of the participating farmers in a
market economy, the project would facilitate their social evolution. Special
attention would be paid to women, since they play an important role in agricul-
tural and domestic activities. By encouraging the recruitment of female
"promotores" and extension workers, and involving women in the activities
supported by the extension service, the project would ensure that women are
systematically integrated in project development. Finally, the institution
building aspect of the project would be particularly important. The expansion
and consolidation of the former Ingavi Project Unit into an organization for



- 35 -
implementing both this and the Ingavi Project would make it the country's most
advanced and experienced institution in rural development in the Altiplano.
This institution could eventually emerge as a central development agency and
be used as a vehicle to mount a comprehensive development program in the
remaining areas of the Central and Southern Altiplano. The utilization of
farmers' coúimunities and cooperatíves for extension and channeling of credit
would lead to the strengthening of these organizations. In the project
area, the creation of, and assistance to, a Central Cooperative, which would
eventually take over some of the funetions of the Project Unit, would
establish a unique institutional model, which could be successfuly repli-
cated in other regions of the country.
B. Fiscal Impact
8.05      For the productive component (US$4.1 million, excluding contin-
gencies), costs would be recovered through the credit program. Under the
water supply and waste disposal facilities program (US$0.3 million, excluding
contingency), beneficiaries would contribute $b 1,740, or about 54% of the
total cost of each well, in the form of labor for excavation ($b 1,100), local
building materials ($b 140) and cash payments equivalent to one-third of the
value of the pump ($b 500). Likewise, beneficiaries would contribute $b 300,
or about 50%, to the overall cost of pit privies in labor for excavation and
construction ($b 200) and local material. Other cash costs (US$3.3 million,
excluding contingency) relating to the productive support component and
technical and administrative support, which would benefit a broader group than
the direct participants in the project, would not be recovered.
8.06      The impact of the project on Government s finance would be limited.
During the project period, the average yearly contribution would be US$550,000,
or 0.3% of the 1978 Central Government expenditures. After project completion,
recurrent annual expenditures would not pose a serious burden since they would
amount to US$670,000, or 0.4% of the 1978 expenditures. Government revenues
from the project would be negligible. Personal tax exemptions would exceed
the individual income of project beneficiaries, while most of the commodities
produced under the project would be for the domestic market and not subject
to any sales tax. Revenues from import would also be very small since most
agricultural inputs are either exempt from import tax or taxed at a low level.
During the project period, average annual Government revenues from the taxes
and import duties would be US$78,000.
C. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity
8.07      For the economic analysis, the costs of all components, productive
and non-directly productive, have been taken into account. Each item was
separated into local labor, imported materials and local materials categories.
To account for the unemployment in the Altiplano of unskilled and family
labor, a shadow wage rate of $b 35 has been taken for both (equivalent to
70% of the market wage rate). Only a few inputs have been classified as trad-
able and computed at border prices adjusted for transportation costs. The



- 36 -
principal project products have been assumed to be non-tradable. Since
the standard conversion factor is estimated at .993, domestic prices have
been maintained for all non-tradables. In most project products, there
are well developed and competitive marketing structures. Provision has
been made for the replacement of all vehicles, tractors and equipment,
and half of the cost of the land and the building for the Project Unit's
headquarters in Viacha has been included as a project cost. Also, half
of the operating cost of the staff who would be servicing both projects
has been included in the analysis.
8.08      The overall rate of return (ROR) projected for this project is 36%;
results of the economic analysis are summarized on page 37. The high ROR is
due to improvement in the concept of the present project based on the experi-
ence of the Ingavi Project and to the fact that many farmers would participate
in the project and the cost per beneficiary would be relatively low. Under
the proposed project, the number of "non-directly productive" components has
been kept to a minimum. The yield assumptions for the present project, while
still conservative, reflect the encouraging experience of the Ingavi Project.
Another reason for the high level of the ROR is that most farm investments are
small and yield a quick return inasmuch as the present subsistence level of
agriculture would permit substantial and rapid yield increases. It should be
noted, however, that in spite of the high rate of return of the project and
the substantial increases in the incomes of the participating farmers, these
incomes would remain below the national average.
8.09      Other sensitivity tests were carried out to evaluate the impact on
the ROR of an increase in costs or a decrease in benefits. The investment
and operating costs (including unskilled labor) would have to increase
by 66% for the ROR to come down to the estimated opportunity cost of capital
(10%). Alternatively, the benefits would have to decrease by 37% for the
ROR to fall to the same level. Either alternative appears very unlikely in
view of the conservative assumptions made for yields, cropping pattern and
intensity and the adoption rate of improved technology.
D. Project Risk
8.10      Since the project is based on experiences obtained under the two
previous Bank/IDA operations in the Altiplano, the project is considered to be
of low risk. However, judging from the experience of the Ingavi Project, a
potential risk for this project would lie in the difficulty of attracting and
retaining a sufficient number of qualified staff. Because La Paz offers more
amenities--and often higher salaries--it would be necessary to give financial
compensation to the project staff to recruit them and maintain them in their
posts. The problem may be especially acute in the case of extensionists,
since a shortage of this type of personnel is reported in the country.
Failure to obtain a sufficient number of extension officers would certainly
affect negatively the farmers' response and the yields they would achieve.
Because of this potential problem, project staffing has been kept at a
minimum and salaries would be high enough to attract and retain highly
qualified persons.



IOLIVIA
~8l4Suyos - flUS 9805 ftU8L DfW7 )L  lIUOEC
Fojail Cconn_Ic C..h Flo.
!(b '000)
----------------------------  ------------------------------  ^-----------y-------------------- --------------------                                      ----- -----------------------~---------------~------ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~
¡  2  2     4            5           6            1            8          950                        ¡1        1¡2           13          54           15           ¡6 7,                     ¡0
I 1O --op  ".0d1                                645       2,226        1.550       S,/91        7,1349      7,106        7,450       8,120        7,450       7.450       1 6850       1,720        7,450  ,   7,850         1.450       75.20        7 .650       7,450
3 5          .,,od. 124                                   2,17t        3,869       5,907        7,146       7171         7,520       1.715      75280         7,1380      7,715        7,415        7,380       7.530        1,415        1.5I5       7,580        7.280
Sh.ep                                           478        1.643       3.451       5.964        1.00í       Z,220        7,620       7  38        1.22        7.422        7, 722      7.622        7,622        7, 622      7.622        7.622          2         7.622
Alpa-                                           273          80        ¡.32        3,087        5.421       5,646        3.853       31,91        3,655       3,197       ,1968         3,99        3, 989       3 989       5,989        3.989       3.989        3.1a89
h"s y                                         6,033      17,691       20,161      26,705       21.302      18,5Y9       16,476      16,677       ¡8,614      ¡8,777     19.817       19,685       16,500      16,500       16.500       16,500      16,500       16.500
1,883         740          757         775          175         775          775       1,425         775          7157          15         lis          175         775          775          -           -            -
l-I. l                                          _         2,644        2640        2,640                      _            _           -                                                  -           -                        -           -
W-r.-  SaPPIY ---I WOt. O¡fmpo-l              1,210        1,432       1,936       2,66-                                   -            -                              -                              -            -
1.ohnlr.¡ -l Ad,ml,,¡míi     Sopporm         23,069       *,644       10,441      11,914        i,¡789     11,189       ¡¡.789      17 ,6f5     11,1769      11,09       55,a7¡9      11,789      ¡1,789       11,189       17.685       ¡1.189     1¡1¡69        11.789
YiarA. I . 11 *nd f.o¡1 tl ¡ 1       -        2.400          40            0      . 00            600        -00             00                     600         600          600          600         600       -              600          6_           600    f     00
1.1.1  ¡,,cr..oi.I Io,,oí Co.i         38 c1        15.927      5D473 69  27k            *1.89          .21 966I  6,S s4 4         36       W.91       se S7S       60, 84         0.1L8o    S  490       I.-la       62.Z61       36 320                    » .
p nr,ÉtnrO  L_bor Cost
I h- crop m .dal                                 52         175          315        525           699         751          186         106   18      6          186          /86           186        706          796         786          186          786         786
3.5 h7op mo.1                                   ¡26        l308          581        902        ¡,05Ú0      1¡23          1,154       1,154      1¡154         1.154        1,154        1,154       1,154       1,14         1 .154        .154       1 154        1 .154
Shtap                                             73         237         508        893         1.029       1 119        1,162       1,162        1,162       ¡.162        1,162         1,162      1,162        1,162       1. 162       1,162      1¡162         1.162
AIps..                                           39          112         256         446          491         552          595         612          633         637          644           644        644          644         644          644          644         644
bIoy                                            965       1,948        3,158      4,623        6.730        4,932        5.842       6,601        7,361       8,012       8,011          7,511      6.605        5,950       5.950       5.350        S,9O5        5 950
!or smiy                                        179         467          467        467           467         461          467         466          667         461          461           466        467          661         467          467         467 ú665
00.4.                                           154          154         154         154           77           71          77 77                    71          71           11            11         71           77           77          75           17           77
..,pr B,ppy   -, WSi  I¡.po...                  600           20 09S0                                                                                                                     -           -                          --                      -            -
Torol Isrrm86nc.I 3O )yor  Coas               7108       4£21          6  399      S1  8l 349               9 02¿       10 079    ,10859        11 .640      12 .2 25                   ti  ,7     70.J3j       10 2l40     10 240       10 240      Aij4d         U7,4
t-m--j t-sn a-- -1 t 
1 h.  ---p  -..I                                996       2,622       5,360        9,762      12.801       15.694      11,029       17.029      17,029       17,029      17,029        1.,029      17,029      17,029       17.029      11,029       52.029       17.029
3.5   _ -r,  -M.l                             2.074       4,766       S.594       15,387      18.418       25,248      22,30       22.230      22,230       22,230      22,230        22,230      22,230      22,230       21.230      12.230       22,130       22,230
Sh..p                                         1,035       3 415        7,526      14,287      1¡7952       21.29t       22,927      21,033      23,218       23,318       33,556       33,118       .1,1       33.350       3 .318       33.318      33,31U       33.518
AIp.-.                                          321       1.730        3, 894       ,173        8.963      10,244       11,268      55,432      5*,675       ¡¡.961       12¡065       13.065      ¡3.065       12,065      12,065      .1,065      1¡,065        12,065
D^l.y                                         3,630      10,606       17,601      26.515       39,74      59,546      46,494       51,249      5s,011       56.396      56,533        56.022      24,186      53,390       55,590       55.290      S5,S90       55,590
Po,m.sry                                      _                                                                            -           J,~          jfl         J14      1 240589                     6o     S«19  1¡.100               -_____                     2 0   _
_____   ~~~~____ _              ____   ¡ _6  _3.t92       _W.
lor-l  _l,o,am,.rí.5  8.O s-                  9 25       22 649   44,l75   4   015.126        58,508    A9?.l    2tS.848           ¡2,994  O30.211          4j¡0S93      141.453 !_4 1,9p         139 44 7    141  21,    ¡45.432       ¡42         142.152      542.562
9- *-,--flt                                      (32,177)   (17.,99)   (¡2,691>         (1,482)    2p391        41,660       53,101      49,392       60,610      60.189       68,310        69^06       71,866      13,591      68.571       75.615       75.71       16.4S1



- 38 -
8.11      Given a sufficient number of extension staff, the farmers' res-
ponse forecast should be easily achieved. This is particularly true for
crop development since this type of activity is already known to many
farmers through the efforts of SNDC, CORDEPAZ, and, in a different area,
the Ingavi Project. Livestock, sheep and alpaca development is not yet as
well accepted and more promotional effort would be necessary as provided by
INFOL under the Ulla Ulla Project. Given the profitabílity of these activi-
ties, however, a strong response can be predicted.
8.12      Regarding livestock development, a potential bottleneck lies in
the availability of dairy cattle. The number of participating farmers has
been determined on the basis of an estimate of the number of dairy cattle
that can be obtained from the Cochabamba region. In any case, limitation on
the development of this activity could be compensated by the promotion of
other types of farm development under the project (crops, sheep, alpaca).
Another risk attached to the livestock component is the possible death of
animals brought from Cochabamba, due to their non-adaptation to the high
elevation. An acclimatization center has been provided to facilitate this
transition and an existing system of insurance under the Project Unit would
protect the farmers from financial loss. The experience of the Ingavi
Project shows that the risk of loosing animals remains below 10%.
8.13      Climatic condition constitutes another project risk since frost
may severely affect potato yields. Only certain parts of the project area,
however, are subjected to severe frosts and, even there, the effect on
any one farmer should be mitigated by the current practice of planting
potatoes in various fields situated in different areas. Thus, for the
project farmers, losses on account of frost are unlikely to exceed 10%.
Climatic hazards, therefore, are unlikely to cause more than a limited and
temporary set-back to the project.
E. Environmental Impact
8.14      The proposed project ís expected to have a positive environ-
mental impact. Improvement of herds of cattle, sheep and alpaca and of the
range management practices would lead to a better balance between animal
resources and the carrying capacity of the land, thereby reducing soil
erosion. Reforestration of public or private lands would also contribute to
better soil conservation as well as reduce the practice of burning dung,
thereby facilitatíng natural nitrogen fertilization. The water supply and
waste disposal component would improve the hygiene and health conditions of
the farmers in the project area.



- 39 -
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      Condition of negotiations were that:
(a) The Government had approved the decree and statutes, satis-
factory to IDA, establishing a central semi-autonomous agency
under MACA for the implementation of the on-going Ingavi Rural
Development Project (Loan 1121-BO) and the proposed Omasuyos-
Los Andes Rural Development Project (para 4.01);
(b) the Government had appointed a Project Director with qualí-
fications and experience acceptable to IDA (para 4.03).
9.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) procurement procedures would be followed as outlined in
paragraph 3.16;
(b)  the Government would not modify the decree and statutes creating
the Project Unit without IDA's concurrence and that any replace-
ments for the Project Director and Sub-Directors until three years
after the project's closing date would be subject to IDA approval
(paras 4.01 and 4.04);
(c) the Government would establ.ish a "Procurement Committee" within
the Project Unit to be responsible for acquiring goods and
services under the project, that the Project Unit would not
be subject to import restri.ctions, and that any duties on
goods imported by the Project Unít would be paid for with
funds provided by the Government (para 4.04);
(d) the Government would provide the Project Unit staff with
adequate incentives and that total remuneration would be
high enough to ensure that the Project Unit could attract
and retain highly qualified personnel (para 4.05);
(e) the specialist in cheese and dairy production to be contracted
by the Project Unit would be employed by July 1, 1980 under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.05);
(f) the Project unit would continue to maintain the revolving
fund for input supply and that the Government would increase
this revolving fund to US$200,000 to ensure sufficient and
timely availability of inputs for project farmers (para 4.11);
(g)  the Project Unit, in collaboration with DESEC, would establish
and provide technical assistance to a Central Cooperative and
that the Project Unit would submit to IDA by December 1, 1982
a proposal outlining the terms and conditions, including a time-
table, under which the Project Unit's input supply program would
be transferred to the Central Cooperatíve (para 4.11);



- 40 -
(h) the Project Unit would maintain separate accounts for the input
supply system and the acclimatization center and it would
establish cattle prices at sufficient levels to recover its
investment and operating costs (para 4.12);
(i) the Government would cause SNC to (í) prepare by April 1, 1980,
a study, including a timetable, satisfactory to IDA, for the
improvement of about 50 km of feeder roads in the project area;
(ii) improve by December 31, 1980 the sections of the road
between Achacachi and Ancoraímes to ensure accessibility through-
out the rainy season; (iii) utilize the Ingavi Project road
equipment for the improvement and maintenance of about 50 km
of feeder roads; and (iv) maintain the project roads during and
after the project period (para 4.13);
(j)  the Government would cause BAB to establish an office with
adequate staff and necessary furniture and equipment in either
Achacachi or Huarina (para 4.14);
(k) the Government, by April 1, 1980, would cause the Project Unit
to enter into a contractual arrangement with INFOL, INBOPIA
and FOMO for the promotion and development of handicraft activities
in the project area (para 4.15);
(1) the Project Unit would establish a Coordinating Committee in the
project area, consisting of project staff and representatives
of project beneficiaries, to function at an advisory level on
matters relating to programs undertaken by the project and
any issues which might arise between project management and
farmers (para 4.16);
(m) no further CORDEPAZ, MACA and SNDC agricultural credit funds
or funds under any Government financial assistance programs
would be committed in the project area (para 4.17);
(n) the Project Unit would provide subloans to project beneficiaries
according to the lending procedures and terms and conditions
outlined in Schedule A (para 4.18);
(o) the Project Unit and the participating institutions would main-
tain separate project accounts which would also be audited annually
by independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, according to pro-
cedures acceptable to IDA, and audited reports would be for-
warded to IDA within four months of the close of each fiscal
year (para 4.19);
(p) the monitoring program outlined in paragraph 4.21 would be
acceptable to IFAD and IDA; and
(q) the Project Unit would send quarterly progress reports to
IDA within two months of the end of each quarter and that
a project completion report would be submitted to IDA not
later than six months after project completion (para 4.22).



- 41 -
9.03      It would be a condition of Board presentation that the Sub-
Directors for the Ingavi Project and also for the Omasuyos-Los Andes
Project, with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, had been
appointed (para 4.04).
9.04      Conditions of effectiveness would be that, under the credit program
(i) a subsidiary agreement between the Central Bank and BAB and a contractual
agreement between the Project Unit and BAB, satisfactory to IDA, had been
signed, and (i>) that the Government had established a credit revolving fund
in BAB, amounting to about US$100,000, for the execution of the credit program
and set rules and guidelines for its operation (para 4.14).
9.05      Conditions of disbursement under the forestry program would be
that a contractual agreement between the Project Unit and CDF, satisfactory
to IDA, had been signed (para 4.13) and under the road program, that a
contractual agreement between the Project Unit and SNC, satisfactory to IDA,
had been signed (para 4.13).
9.06      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for IDA credit of US$3 mi.llion at standard terms.
May 22, 1979



- 42 -
SCHEDULE A
Page 1
BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions, and Flow of Funds
1.        The Project Unit would give technical assistance and credit to
small farmers through farmer groups in the project area on terms and condi-
tions as demanded by the needs of agricultural production when technical
assistance reasonably guarantees good cropping and financíal success.
2.        Only the Project Unit would provide credit within the project area;
no further CORDEPAZ, MACA, or SNDC agricultural credit funds or funds under
any government financial assistance programs would be committed in the
project area.
3.        About 6,000 farming families involving an estimated 150 farming
groups would participate under the project. Information on the phasing of
the lending program is shown in Table 1.
4.        The lending procedures called for under the project would be based
on the Ingavi credit delivery system and consist of the following: credit
promotion, preparation of farm plans and subloan applications, subloan approvals,
disbursement and collection, credit and technical supervision.
Credit Promotion
5.        A promotion program would be set up to inform farmers of the benefits
of extension and credit. This credit promotion program would be coordinated
with other institutions working in the area such as the educational broadcasting
company that could help through its radio programs for farmers. Most of the
promotion effort, however, would be undertaken by the Project Unit's extension
agents, who would contact farmer group leaders and organize meetings for
oral presentation of the project to the farmers. The farmers' market would
also provide excellent opportunities for meeting farmers and distributing
simple information, possibly with visual aids. It is expected that the
promotion effort would obtain a satisfactory response because most farmers
in the project area are aware of the on-going regional programs of the Ingavi
Project, the Northern Altiplano Project, the National Community Development
Service and of the benefits they offer.
Preparation of Farm Plans and Loan Applications
6.        When the farmers of a community want to participate in the project
they would apply for a subloan that would be based on a farm plan that showed
the present situation, with special reference to cropping patterns and yields,
animal stock and output, available family labor, the farmer's farming experi-
ence, the farmer's present assets and liabilities and the legal status of the
group to which he belongs. The extension agents would visit the farm and draw
up a development plan that would indicate the new activities, the required



- 43 -
SCHEDULE A
Page 2
changes in cropping patterns, the investments to be made, and the quantity
of required inputs and it would also give an estimation of future produc-
tion related to a time schedule.
7.        Using this farm development plan, the zonal credit officer would
then establish the credit requirements, repayment capability, and timing and
type of disbursements (in kind or cash) and make a recommendation on the
type and extent of credit required to fulfill the proposed farm development
plan. Only in difficult cases would the credit officer be required to visit
the farm with the extension agent. The loan applications and farm develop-
ment plans for all farmers of a group would then be transmitted together
to the Sub-Project Unit's Credit Division Chief for review. After this,
these documents would be sent to the Credit Committee for subloan approval.
8.        Loan Approval.  A Credit Committee consisting of the Project
Unit's Sub-Director and the Credit and Agricultural Extension Division
Chiefs would approve the subloans, meeting as frequently as required. It
would also consider modifications of on-going subloans such as proposed
changes in subloan maturities or investment plans. After approval by the
Committee, subloan applications would be passed on to the proposed Agricul-
tural Bank of Bolivia (BAB) either in Achacachi or Huarina where a new BAB
branch office would be installed. Once a subloan is approved by the Credit
Committee, BAB could refuse to disburse it only on grounds of legal consi-
derations such as improper legal status of the group or an existing mortgage
on a farmer's assets.
Disbursement and Collection
9.        Subloans would be made to groups, the members of which would be
held collectively responsible for repayment. Therefore, groups would be
required to have a formal legal status. Farm group leaders would be respon-
sible for distributing the inputs amnong the farmers and, later on, for
recovering the subloans from them and forwarding the money to the BAB
office.
10.       Once BAB receives the approved subloan application, the legal
loan documents would be drawn up, reviewed by the lawyer and approved by the
director of the BAB office (authority to approve these documents could be
delegated to the BAB zonal officer in Achacachi to avoid delays). Documents
would be signed in zonal offices which would also handle disbursement of
funds.
11.       In the case of loans given in kind by the Project Unit, such as
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, BAB would make out a check payable to the
group leader but would send it to the zonal credit officer of the Project
Unit; upon delivery of the inputs, this officer would have the leader
endorse the check over to the Project Unit. If the subloan is for inputs
that are not stocked by the Project Unit, such as farm implements or live-
stock, BAB would make out a check payable to the leader which he could then
cash or endorse to the seller at the time of purchase.



- 44 -
SCHEDULE A
Page 3
12.       The subloan repayment schedule would be decided by BAB and the Project
Unit's Credit Division Chief, taking account of the financial constraints facing
small farmers. A slight flexibility would thus be allowed to enable farmers
to take advantage of the higher prices that can be obtained several months after
the harvest. Group leaders would be responsible for either collecting the amounts
due from the individual farmers or for bringing all farmers to the zonal office
at a time arranged by the extension agent for repayment.
13.       BAB would open a regional agency in either Achacachi or Hurarina
for this project and would provide it with the necessary staff, furniture
and equipment. The agency would also be flexible in working hours when
necessary to accommodate its clients. One of the project vehicles would be
used as a mobile banking window by the Project's Credit Division and BAB
staff.
Credit and Technical Supervísion
14.       Technical supervision and assistance would be of prime importance
to ensure that farmers get full benefits from the inputs they purchase,
while credit supervision would ensure that the subloan is being used for the
purpose indicated in the subloan application. Both tasks would be responsí-
bilities of the extension agent who would call upon the Project Unit's
credit officer if necessary.
Terms of Subloans
15.       (a) Subloans would carry an interest rate of 12% per annum, which
is consistent with interest rates charged under other Bank-supported projects
ín the Altiplano; it would also be in line with the Government's policy to
maintain uniform interest rates;
(b) Maturities and grace periods would not exceed the following:
Type of Development               Maturity             Grace Period
-------------Years--------------
On-farm investment                  6.00                     2.0
Production credit                   1.25                     -
However, the maturity and grace period of subloans to about 600 farmers,
who would be integrating forestry investment into their farming systems,
would be determined by the Credit Division on a case-by-case basis.
Flow of Funds
16.       After subloan disbursements (in kind or cash), BAB would collect
the disbursement receipts and send them to the Central Bank for total
reimbursement. Ttme Central Bank would then forward its reimbursement claims
to IDA. Under this procedure, the entire credit risk would be assumed by
the Government, as BAB, actirg as a banking window, would transfer all
subloan recovery funds to the Central Bank. IDA disbursements for crop



- 45 -
SCHEDULE A
Page 4
production in 1980 would begin only after the total production credit exceeded
the aggregate amount extended in the preceding year in the project area
under the project. In each following year, disbursements for production
credit would be made only against credit in excess of the amount extended
by the project during the previous year.
17.       BAB would be required to set up a revolving fund of $b 2 million
to finance the subloans prior to reimbursement by the Central Bank.
Government Lending
18.  (a)  Credit funds (US$100,0000 established in BAB would be
replenished by the Central Bank for 100 for disbursements
on subloans;
(b) BAB would repay to the Government through the Central Bank
both principal and interest as they are received from
sub-borrowers;
(c) Government would take the financial risk on the subloan
portfolio; and
(d)  For its services, BAB would receive a service fee of 37
on subloans to farmers.



- 46 -
Table 1
BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of the Lending Program 1/
Number of Participatin_ Farmers
Type of Model                 Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Total
1-ha crop                      500           500         500        1,000      2,500
3.5-ha crop                    200           200         300          300      1,000
Sheep                        100           200         300          400      1,000
Alpaca                        50           100         150          200        500
Daíry                        200          200          300          300      1,000
Total                  1_,050       _200        1,550        2,200      6_000
1/   Forestry would be undertaken by one-tenth of the 6,000 farmers on about
600 ha. The number of estimated participating farmers for forestry would
be:
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Total
60          180         180         180         600
February 26, 1979



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultant's Terms of Reference
Dairy ManaRement - Cheese Production
1.        The specialist should have practical experience in dairy farm
management in Latin America. In addition, he should be experienced in
both cheese-making and marketing at the rural level. He should be able
to read, write and speak Spanish. Specifically, he would work with the
project's extension agents to:
(a) develop methodology and programs to train extension
agents and farm families in simple animal husbandry
practices;
(b) train extension agents and farm families in techniques
of cheese-making, storing and marketing;
(c) assist the Project Unit in the implementation of the
acclimatization program;
(d) assist extension staff in identifying limitations in
traditional production systems and in analyzing methods
that can be modified or adjusted to increase production
and productivity;
(e) help extension agents and farm families to develop simple
record-keeping for milk production and cheese-making; and
(f) supervise, in collaboration with the Sub-Directors, exten-
sion agents providing technical assistance to individual
farm families and groups.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Models
Model No. 1 -Crops and Dairy
1.        Model 1 corresponds to a 3.56-ha farm, 1.09 ha of which is land
presently in fallow, and represents the type of enterprise a total of 1,000
farm family participants are expected to operate. Crops would be raised on
2.09 ha, while 1.47 ha of pasture would be improved. The area of production
for each crop would be increased as follows: potatoes from 0.36 to 0.45 ha;
quinua from 0.08 to 0.10 ha; broad beans from 0.11 to 0.15 ha; barley from
0.34 to 0.75 ha; and alfalfa from 0.01 to 0.54 ha (Table 1). The dairy herd
would increase from three cows producing 3 liters of milk per day to six
cows producing 8 liters per day. The lactation period would be increased
from 180 to 240 days. As of the ninth year, male calves would be sold at
birth to increase the total amount of milk sold and to save feed.
2.        Production costs would increase from $b 10,960 to $b 33,219,
including labor, and total labor would increase from 263 to 433 man-days
per year. Average on-farm investment would include: a small milkíng barn;
milk pails and kettle; water well and pump; and one bull and three pregnant
heifers (3/4 Holstein).
3.        Total annual net income per family, excluding labor, would reach
$b 39,527 (US$1,976) by full development. Details of investment costs,
yields and production projections and projected cash flow are presented in
Tables 2 through 10.
Model 2 - Crops and Sheep
4.        Model 2 illustrates a 3.56-ha farm, representing about 1,000
farmers practicing this type of farming. Cropping patterns would be similar
to model 1, but the area of production for potatoes would be increased
from 0.36 to 1.0 ha; quinua from 0.08 to 0.34 ha; and broad beans from 0.11
to 0.30 ha. The area for oca and fodder crops such as alfalfa and barley
would remain the same. Cropping intensity would increase from 69% to
100%.
5.        For practical calculating purposes, the sheep flock projection
has been consolidated and worked out on the basis of a 40-family group;
however, it is assumed that each farmer would manage his flock individually.
Animal feed from communal and individually owned pastures would be sufficient
for 9.0 animal units (AU). The incremental on-farm fodder production would
provide the farmer with sufficient feed to allow for the upgrading of the
sheep flock through cross-breeding the native ewes with improved breeds.
Production costs would increase from $b 3,481 to $b 9,543, including labor,
and total family labor would increase from 79 man-days to 112 man-days per
year. Average on-farm investment would consist of a holding corral, hand
shears, and one ram.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        Total annual net income per family, excluding labor, would reach
$b 16,941 (US$847) by full development. Details of investment costs,
yields and production projections and cash flow are presented in Tables 11
through 20.
Model 3 - Crops and Alpaca
7.        This model is representative of 13 groups, totaling 500 families,
that would participate in the project. The cropping pattern would be the
same as for model 2. The herd projection has been consolidated on the basis
of a herd for a 40-family group; however, the alpaca herd for each family
would consist of 15 animals at full development. Investments would be
limited to a holding corral, hand shears, and a fiber-holding table.
Operating costs for the alpaca herd would be mainly for animal health.
8.        As in the previous two models, the farmer would have access to
about 11.0 ha of communal pastures, which, together with the fodder produced
on the farm, would provide sufficient feed for 9.0 AU. Production costs
would increase from $b 3,495 to $b 10,454, including labor, and total labor
would increase from 94 man-days to 131 man-days per year.
9.        Total annual net income per family, excluding labor, would reach
$b 17,781 (US$889) by full development. Details of investment costs, yields
and production projections and cash flow are presented in Tables 21 through
30.
Model 4 - Crops, 3.5 ha
10.       This model represents a 3.56-ha crop farm, corresponding to about
1,000 farmers (25 groups) expected to participate in the project. The
cropping pattern would emphasize potatoes (from 0.36 to 1.0 ha); quinua
(from 0.08 to 0.34 ha); and broad beans (from 0.11 to 0.30 ha). The land
area allocated for oca and fodder crops remains unchanged.  Fodder crop
output would be either consumed by farm animals at home or sold as feed to
neighbors for their animals.  Cropping intensity would increase from 69% to
100% by incorporating the land under fallow. Operating costs would increase
from $b 6,156 to $b 14,120, including labor, and total labor would increase
from 76 man-days to 109 man-days per year.
11.       Total annual net income per family, excluding labor, would reach
$b 18,159 (US$908) by full development; details of yields and production
projections and cash flow are presented in Tables 31 through 34.
Model 5 - Crops, 1.0 ha
12.       This model is representative of a 1.0-ha crop farm, corresponding to
about 2,500 farmers (63 groups) expected to participate in the project. Land
area for potatoes would be increased from 0.30 to 0.40 ha and quinua from 0.10
to 0.17 ha, while barley would be reduced from 0.10 ha to 0.05 ha in order to



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
assign more land to food crops. The area for oca, broad beans, and alfalfa
would remain unchanged. By bringing fallow land into production, cropping
intensity would increase from 88% to 100%. Production costs would rise from
$b 2,935 to $b 6,041, including labor, and total labor would increase from 41
man-days to 50 man-days per year.
13.       Total annual net income per family, excluding labor, would reach
$b 5,554 (US$248) by full development. Details of yields, production projec-
tions and cash flow are presented in Tables 35 through 38.
14.       Details of a representative forestry system are shown in Tables 39
and 40.



-51-                                    ANNEX 2
Table 1.
BOLIVIA
Omasuyos-Los Andt,s Rural Development Project
Proposed Yearly Cropping Patterr
Model l Crops - Dairy            Without                - - - Years - - - - - -
Net 3.56 ha                      Project        1         2        3          4
Potatoes                           0.36        0.45     0.45      0.45       0.45
Oca                                0.10        0.10     0.10      0.10       0.10
Quinua                             0.08        0.10     0.10      0.10       0.10
Broad beans                        0.11        0.15     0.15      0.15       0.15
Barléy (hay)                       0.34        0.75     0.75      0.75       0.75
Alfalfa (green)                    0.01        0.54     0.54      0.54       0.54
Pastures                           1.47        1.47     1.47      1.47       1.47
Fal-aw                             1.09         -        -         -          -
Total:  (ha)                    3.56        3.56     3.56      3.56       3.56
Cropping Intensity %                 69        100      100       100         100
Model 2 Crops - Sheep
Model 3 Crops - Alpaca
Model 4 Crops
Net 3.56 ha
Potatoes                           0.36        1.00     1.00      1.00       1.00
Oca                                0.10        0.10     0.10      0.10       0.10
Quinua                             0.08        0.34     0.34      0.34       0.34
Broad beans                        0.11        0.30     0.30      0.30       0.30
Barley (hajy                       0.34        0.34     0.34      0.34       0.34
Alfalfa (green)                    0.01        0.01     0.01      0.01       0.01
Pastures                           1.42        1.47     1.47      1.47       1.47
Falalw                            1.09          -       --        -          -
Total:  (ha)                    3.56        3.56     3.56      3.56       3.56
Cropping Intensity %                 69         100      100       100        100
Model 1 Crops
Net 1.0 ha
Potatoes                           0.30        0.40     0.40      0.40       0.40
Oca                                0.10        0.10     0.10      0.10       0.10
Quinua                             0.10        0.17     0.17      0.17       0.17
Broad beans                        0.27        0.27     0.27      0.27       0.27
Barley (hay)                       0.10        0.05     0.05      0.05       0.05
Alfalfa (green)                    0.01        0.01     0.01      0.01       0.01
Fallow                             0.12         -        -         -          -
Total:  (ha)                    1.00        1.00     1.00      1.00       1.00
Cropping Intensity %                 88         100      100       100        100
February 6, 1979



BOLIVIA
0660100ó .- L,09 0112f0 60061A 0tEVLUh41 PIOOJIXT
V... I                                                 .l  I - c.op. nd 0.  o
til                *_,   __        __           ___           _      __   _,___      ,__,              _ _1  ¡  2___ 3f   ___   _ __ _   ,____ _   _   __ _¡2_______                             _____ __                    ___   ___
r~Oi*    CO*6    296L. U     . .t    J.-ti.   C1      -_    3     t _     br    CoBt    ULlí    COút           Dnít   Co-ít  U¡            Cotí     Otílí.  CÇot    6019.          t     !m.uIi.   C-,    Unlt.   Co.t    Uohl.   Co-t
milhk¡o  b-n               I      9,000       .5    4.500        .5   4,500                                                                                              - _
lI.t.o  tíoou,              1        500       ¡      500                                                                                                                                                                                                    -        -
6.109  .016  (co-h         -         -         I      SO                                                                                  500                                                                                                 -              -
¡itier vell <¡090!
^telal)-                   -          -      ¡40        _      _           _      _          _      _           _      _           _                                                     -          - _                                                     -       
S,,-Tota             -        -          -   5640          -   4. -00                                                                                                                                                                      -          -
¡sllO 6.ílo*e  (30 ¡Éter) I          000       1      000                                                                     - -  -B      -                   -      _-                 -I                 oeo            -         -        -              -      -
HilO  9*¡ie (10 iíí.r.)  2           200       ¡      200         -      -          I      200                                                                                                      ¡       200
1        ¡50       -      300                                                                                                                         -                  -       -         -       - 30-                                -
6a9.- 0-I00                -         -         1  _                                                           -                                                                          -     -        -.122          -       -          -      -           -      -          -
0,6-1,0.1             -        -          -   200           _      -           -      200                                              -            - -.322 -                   -        -        -         -        - _  2,000
C-t1        - .            3      6113,600 6!600
2,0b-ToVel            -        -          *   6.600         -  13.600          -   4 600                                                  -         - _.2 -- -                                 -            - _                                               -,o
Lobor 1F*11)
T0 b,,ISiiher              -         -         _   12,00          _   2.500
Tr. btid 0,1,9  ,¡         -         -         -   1,100          _
Sob-T,.6i             -        -         -   3,600          -   2.500         -       -          -      -           -      -          _      -           -      _                  _           _      _
T.t.1 1.-I-~,                  -        -           16.40             .20.600           - 6.009                                                                                             -                 12           -      - 00- 
íeó ~,.,y 4, 19<9



OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 1 -_Crops Dairy
Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year)-
Crops                         ha       Jan.    Feb.    tlar.   Ap.   May   June   July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.   Total
Potatoes                      0.45    2.0       2.0      -       10    10       _-    2.8    3.2    -                    -         30
Oca                           0.10    0.6       0.6       _      2.4   2.4      -       -    -    1.0    1.0    -        -          8
Quinua                        0.10      -        -       -       1.1   1.1      -       -   0.6   0.6       -      -      0.6       4
Beans                         0.15    0.6        -      3.5       _-         -         0.9  1.0    -        -      -      -         6
Barley                        0.75    0.7       0.7    10.5    10.5    -         -      -    -      -      3.8    3.8   -          30
Alfalfa                       0.54               -                       -                          1      1       2      5        14
Subtotal                           3.9     3-3   19         24    13.5      -      0.9  1.6   5.4       9.0   5.81  5.6       92
Dairy-                                30       30      29       28    28         28   28    28    28       28      28    28       341   w
Total Monthly Demand                  33.9    33.3    48        52    41.5       28   28.9  29.6  33.4   37        33.8  33.6   433
Family Labor Available b              45       45      45       45      45       45   45    45    45       45      45    45       540
a/ At full development.
bI  Assumes 2.25 adult equivalent per family of five working 20 days per month.
c/ Rounded.
February 7, 1979
>



* 5'i -
ANNEX 2
¡0LZVZA                                                     Tabla 4
OMASt'YOS - LO6 ANDES RUgAL DVELDPMENT PROJECT
Farm model 1 - Croos and Dairv
Cronoing Pattern. Yielda. Total Productioe. aud "roduction Value
Without        ------------------- Years  ---------------------
C1roppin  Patrern                          Uni±ts     ProSet         1           24
Potatoaa                                ha         0.36         0.45       0.45         0.45       0.45         0.45
Oca                                        ha         0.10        0.10       0.10         0.10       0.10         0.10
(Quillua,                                  ha         0.08        0.10       0.10         0.10       0.10         0.10
QUats                                      ha        0.11         0.15       0.15         0.15       0.15         0.15
Barley                                     ha        0.34         0.75       0.75         0.75       0.75         0.75
Al£alfa                                    ha         0.01        0.54       0.54         0.54       0.54         0.54
Total Crops                          ha         1.0          2.09       Z.09         Z.09       2.09        2.09
Fallow                                     ha         1.09         '-                                  -
ast'ure                                    ha         1.47        1.47       1.47         1.47       1.47         1.47
'lithout Agricultural Value                           0."4        0.44       0.44         0.44       0.44         0.44
Total                                ha         4.00         4.00       4.00        4.00       4.00         4.00
Cropping Inteuzity                    .           69          100        100          100        100          100
Yields
Potatoes                                 kg/ha      4,000        4,400      5,300        7,000      8,000        8,000
Oca                                      kg/ha      2,500        2.500      2,500        2.550      2,600        2,600
QuS.aua                                  kg/ha         500         590        650          790        850          850
3aans                                    kg/ha        550          650        750          800        850          850
8esa atrav                              kg/ha         900          975      1,060        1,140      1,200        1,200
aarley (hay)                             kg/ha      2,700        3,500      4,200        4,600      5,000        5,000
Alfalfa (greeu)                          kg/ha      6,300        6,300      7,500       10,000    12,500        12,500
Pasture                                 kg/ha       2,000        2,400      2,600        2,800      3,000        3,000
Total Production
Potatoes                                 kg        1,440         -,980      2,385        3,150      3,600        3,600
Oca                                      kg           250          250        250          255        260          260
O,uiaua                                  kg            40           59         65           79         85           85
Beano                                   kg          60.5          97.5      112.5          120      127.5        127.5
Bean atraw                               kg           99           146        159          171        180          180
Barley (hay)                             kg          918         2,625      3,150        3,450      3,750        3,750
Alfalfa (grean)                          kg            63        3,402      4,050        5,400      6,750        6,750
Pasture                                  kg        2,940         3,528      3,822        4,116      4,410        4,410
Fargate Price
Procuceion Value                        Sb  ocr kR
Potatoes                                 3.00      4,320         5,940      7,155        9,450    10,800        10,800
Oca                                      2.17        542           542        542          553        56"          564
Q  4.40         120          176        286          348        374          374
3 .50       212           341        394          420        446          446
Bean strew--                            o.20         -              -          -
Bariey h,y/                              0.80         -             _          _            _
Aif al faby                              0.30         -              -         _
Total   Producti.ol  Valae        ,5.194                    6 999      8, 377      10  771   12.184
Leas  on-farm  Consumtiorm'                   2.955         3.251      3.576        3.576                   3.576
Total Cash  Sales                            2L21S          L268      4             2_L21      8            8.608
a.  Quinua oriced ar Sb3,00 without proiect.
bl  Consumad on- arm by animals.
c/  800 kg potatoes; 175 kg oca; 50 kg beana.
Consptlion assuoed to increase 10% during the first aud second years.
February 3, 1979



- 5, -
Al 2
Table 5
BOLIVIA
O&SWYOS   L08 AIDCS ¡DIAL DEVf 0l5 PhJR
para  ol 1-  Cro,ad mard
Creo Operatina Costa
Vithout        ---------                Y        -
Inpute                                         Prol ct       1           2           3           4            5            6
Seed
potitobll/                                       962       2,430       1,823       1,823       1,823        2,430       1,823
Oca                                               54          54           54          54          54          5           54
Quinua                                             5            5           5           5           5           5           5
BQana                                             66          90          97          101        lOe          108         5OS
Brley                                             66         240         240          240         240         240         240
Alfalfa                                            4                                 - -           -.                     -i
Subtotal                                 1.179        3.278       2.219       2.Z23       2-230       2.837       2.230
Pertilizers
?*tato&                                                                  691         900       1,022        1,022       1,022
Oca                                                           -          6           9         1             ,            0
QuOnua                                           -            32          S6           as          88          es          es
Buanu                                            -             23         47          58           63          63          63
Barley                                           -            83         341         499          683         683         683
Alfalfa                                          -           34            1
PAaeurel /                                       -            4 7         3 4
Subtotal                                   _            451       1.608       2.018       2.329       2.329
Harbicides. lnaectícidea. Funzicide
Poc-tos                                                      180         475         632         632          632         632
Oca                                                           -            -                 -           -           -
Quinua                                                                                 18          le          18          18
S rley                                           -            20          20          20           20          20          20
Alfalfa                                          _            _           _            _           _           _
Pasture                                          _            _           _           _           -                        _
Subtotal                                                  _         495         630         670         670         670
Tractor aud bachinerv Hlre
Quinua                                                        45          45           45          45          45          45
Alfalfa                                                       389                                 146          _
Subtotal
Oxen Ua.
Potatoea                                         356         446         446         446         446         446          446
Quinua                                             9          -           -
Deans                                             18          25          25          25           25          25          25
Berley                                           150         330         330          330         330         330         330
Alfalfa                                            4           -           _           _           _           -
Oca                                               39           39          39          39          39          39          39
Iubtotal                                    576         840         840         840         840         840          B40
Sack Raelacamant
Potatoes                                          -                      440           -           -          440
Quinua                                           _              6         _           -             6
Subtotal                                                  6         440          _            t-        440
Labor
Femily                                          ,610       2.835       2.940        3.080       3.220       3.220       3j220
,Total Operatina Costo                     3.365        .544       86.587      88S76       9 486      110 381      Ij
Lats  Labor                              1,610       2,835       2,940        3,080       3,220       3,220       3,220
Total Caah Costs                          1,755       5,709       5,647       5,796       6,266       7,161       6,114
t/  Norually kcpt froe  th- previoua year vill be rened aver, faur yaara.  Co4t of irovea  seed 9b4/kS.  Coat of  ae-d kept
frao previoua year $b3ik¡.
b/ 1 be% of fertilizer of 46 kg at $b 430/ha/year.
February 2, 1979



SOLIVIA
OHASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVLOPHENII PYOJCT
ar. Hodel 1:_ Croos and Dalry
Herd ProlactIon
Wtthout                                -----------------                    end of Yeatr  -__________________________________________________________
Pr.lect                      1           2           3           4          5          6          7           8           9          10          1l         12-20
llerd Co~ositiou(No. )-
aulas                               1                         1                       ¡           1          1          1          1           1          1             1          ¡           1
Cov,                                3                         3           3           3           4          5          6          6           6          6            6           6           6
F."ae Calvg                         I                         1          I            1           1          1          2          2           2          2            2           2           2
..l. CXlves'/                       -                         a           I           I           1          1          1          2           2          2             2          2           2
Helfer. 12-24 on1há                 I                         1           1                                  1          1          2           2          2             2          2           2
Steer  12-24 ooths                  -                         -                       11                     1          1          1           2          2             -
lletfer  24-36  -o-ths              -                         -           -           11                     1          -          -           -           1            2
Oxen                                2                         2           2           2           2          2          2          2           2           2            2          2           2
Total ñerd                       8                        9          L1           11         12         13          14        16          17          18           17          15          15
An.t..¡ UIts                     7                        7           8            9          10        11          11        12          13          14           13          11          1l
Sales (no.)
Bulle                               -                         -          I            _           _          _          _          _           _          1             _          _           _
Co.a                                -                         1           1            1          -          -          -          -           -           1            2          -
Reiltera 12-24  onthe               1                         1           1           _-                     1          1          2           1           _            -          2           2
Stser  12-24  moti,s                -                         -           1            1          1          1          1          1           2           2            -           -
Hale calves *t birti,               -                         -           -           -           -          -          -          -           -           2            2          2           2
Oxeo                                -                         2           2            2          2          2          2          2           2           2            2           2          2
Total                            1                        4           6            4          3          4           4         5           5           a            6           6           6
Purteh.ae (No.)
8ulía               el -                                                 1           -           -          -          -          -           -          1            - _
HNlfar (Pre8naot)                                             1           1            1           -I
Oxen                                -                         2           2           2           2          2          2          2           2           2            2          2           2
Total                            -                        3           4            3           2         2           2         2           2           3            2           2           2
Ted.olcal Coefftcie.tgr
C.I~los r.ce 7                     45                        55         55           55          60        60          60        65          65          65           65          65          65
Hort.lity 7
Calve.                           10                       10           8            6           6         6           6         6           6           6            6           6           6
Calves (1-2 year)                 6                        6           5            5           5         5           5         5           4           4            4           4           4
Adulta                           4                         4           4            3           3         3           3         3           2           2            2           2           2
No.of Coa fn Hilk                   1                         2           2           2           3          3          4          4          4           4            4           4           4
Hllkyleld itie/cov/-lday            3                         3          5            6           8          a          8          8           8          8            a           8           8
lAct-tton  perlod                 180                      180         240          240         240       240         240       240         240         240          240         240         240
Lile Welght Kg.
Dolía                             320                      320         320          320        320        340        360        410         410         410          410         420        420
Cull coa.                         250                      260         260          270         280       290         300       300         330         330          340         340         340
Calves at bitthl                   22                        22         29           28          28        32          32         33         33          35           35          35          35
Heífera-Steere  12-24  -s.        l10                      110         110          200         200       210         210       220         220         230          230         230         230
*/  Ho lo.ses du.  t.  ortality  .re con.idered due to the  selal herd al.e.  To .ccount for loases di,e to mrtslfty
107  lo dedu-ted fro  the overalí  caloe of production.
b/  Male calves are soId at birth fros year 9 o...ard.
el  1sprov d 3/4 HoloíIlta.  Al  llve-toek .old vi¡I be subjeot tu   3--e.oth adaptatfon p.rlod st the .cilaeí-
rati.n center ..d 1, ins--red  al.Inst flín o.  or deatí  c.used by hIgbh  Ititud..
February 3, 1979



SOLIVLA
OHASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL OEVELIPMENT PROJECT
Faro ?*odel 1, Crop8 and Dairv
D-ary Production Protectlon
Protection oí Sales
Unit
Prlce           Wlthout        ----------------         --------                              ar ---------s---------y.----------_-__- ___________- ____- ____-______-_______
Llvestock                         ($b)            Prolect         1           2          3           4         5           6          7          8           9          10          11        12-20
Dvllo/coiled                      6,O<)O              -           -           '          -           -         -           -          -          -           1I                       
Cave/culled                       4.000               -            1          1           1                                                                  1
lIeifera (criolla) 1-2 yrs        3,000               1           1           1                     -                      -          -          -           -
Hetee s (Improved) 1-2 yra        6,600                           -           -          -                           1                2          1           -                      2            2
sr.era (criollo) 1 year           3,000               -           -           1          1           -         -           -          -                      -          -           -            -
Stecsr  (Improved) 1 year         5,000               -           -           -          -                                 1          1          2          2                                    -
líate calvea at birth               420               _                 -           -          -                     -           -    _          -           2           2          2            2
osen    y                         6,000               -           2           2           2          2         2           2          2          2           2           2          2            2
mllk Production
N¡ober ol cows In *lIk   ./                           1           2           2          2           3         3          4           4          4          4            4          4           4
Dally .lIk production (1)                             3           3           5          6           8         8          8           8          8          8                 8           8        a8
lactation pertod (daya)                            180          180        240         240        240        240        240         240       240         240          240       240          240
S ob-total (1)                                  5ht       1,080       2,400      2,880       5,760     5,760       7.680      7,680      7 680       7,680       7,680      7,680        7,680
Calf a,lIk esaved  (1)                                            -                 -          -          -          -           -               -        600          600       600          600
Total (1)                                       540       1.080       2.400      2.880       5 260    5,160        7.680      1 680      1          8.280        a.280          0
al Per cow In mIlk
Fro,e ye.ar 9 anward  ale calves wouid be aold at birtI.  300  Iftera per calt per year  .oUid be $aved.
rebruary 3, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                         ar



1 8OLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPFENT FROJECT
>bdel 1: Crop' and D0ary
Dairy Production Value and OperatlnR Costa
($ b)
Without                       ------------------------------------------------- - eers-----------------------------------------------------
Production Value                 Prolect                        1          2          3           4         5          6          7         8          !           10         11        12
1. Lívectock
Bulla/culled                                                 -       6,000                    -          -               -          -             6,000                     -         -
Co.s/culled                      -                        4,000      4,000       4,000         -         -          -          -         -        4,000      8.000
lletfers (criolla)             3.000                      3,000      3,000                                    -                                     -           -           -         -
lleifers (i.proved)              -                           -         -           -          -       6,600      6,600    13,200    6,600           -           -        13.200   13,200
Steers (criollo)                                                     3,000       3,000         -         -          - 3-                            -                       -         -
Steera (ln,proved)               -                           -         -           -        5,000    5,000       5,000       5,000   10,000      ¡0,000
Male e alveD at btrth            -                           -                     -           -         -          -          -         -          840         840         840       840
0xcn                             -                       12,000    12,000       12,000    12,000   12,000    12,000    12,000   12,000           12,000      12,000      12,000   12,000
sub-total                    3, 000                   19,000    28,000        19,000    17.000   23,600    23,600    30,200   28,600    32 f840    20,840              26,040   26,Q4
2. M1ilk
S.b-total                    2.160                     4.320       9.600      11,520    23.040   23,040    30,720    30,720   30,720           33,120    33,120        33,120   33,120
T.taIT                       5 160                    23 320    37 600        30520    4      0 46640    54 320    60,920   59,320                        53,960      6    59. 160
Le.s 101                       516                     2,332      3,760        3,052      4,004    4,664      5,432       6,092     5,932       6,596      5,396       5,916      5,916
Totra  Productton Value           4.644                     20988    332Ko         27,468    36,036   41.976    48,888    54,828   53.388    59,364    48,564               53,244   53.244
Operat ing Costa
£/
Fami¡ly labor d/               7,595                      7,595      8,680       9,>65    10,850   11,935       11,935     13,020   14,105       15,190     14,105       11,935    11,935
Anims l,ealth--                                           1,170      1,300       1,430      1,560    1,690       1,820       2.080    2,210       2,340      2,210        1,950     1,950
Oxeo !/                          _                       10,000     10,000      10,000     10,000   10,000    10,000        10,000   10,000      10,000    10,000        10,000   10,000
lot al1                                               18 765    19 980        21.195    22.410   23 62  23       6755    25,100   26315    27 * 30    26 315          23 885   23 885
a/  $b   4 per titer
b/  To áccoulit for mortality loases. 
c/  31 man-days per AnIMal Unit.
d/  Sb  110 per ením.1 per year.
e/  P- -c lase pr ce.
Febr,ea,y 3, 1979



BOLIVIA
OtIASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Faro Hodel 1:  Cropa *nd Dairy
Totat Production Value and Operatlng Costa
($ b)
W tthout                   ---- ----  ---- ---- ----  ---- ----  ---- - -   --- -- YVears  -----------------------------------------------------
Producttoí' Value               Prolect                    1          2           3         4         5          6        7          a          9          10         11        12
Crope                          5.194                     6,997      8,377       10.771    12,184   12,184    12,184   12,184    12,184    12,184    12,184          12,184   12,184
l)nary                         4,644                    20,988    33,840       27,468    36,036   41,976    48,888   54,828    53,388    59.364    48,564    53,244   53,244
Total                       9,838                    27,987    42,217       38,239    48,220   54,160    61,072   67,012    65,572    71.548    60,748    65,428   65,428
lesa on-fsrm cona.,ption       2,955                     3,251      3,576       3,576      3,576    3,576       3,576    3,576      3,576      3,576      3,576      3,576    3,576
TotAl Cash Sales               6 883                    24, 7                                  7,49 6                   57,496   6 1,99    6   7.9 72    57,172    61.852        852
Operatígg Costa
Cropa                          1.755                     5,709      5,647        5,796     6,266    7,161       6,114    6,114      6,114      6,114      6,114      6,114    6,114
Dítry                          _                        11,170    11,300        11,430    11,560   11,690    11,820   12,080    12,210    12,340    12,210    11,950   11,950
Sub-total                   1.755                    16.879    16,947       17,226    17,826   18.851    17.934   18.194    18,324    18.454    18,324    18.064   18064
Labor (Filly)
Crops                          1,610                     2,835      2.940        3,080     3,220    3,220       3,220    3,220       3.220     3,220      3,220      3,220    3,220
Dalry                          7,595                     _9        8,680         9,765    10,850   119 35 11,935   13,02    14,105    15,190   14,1L5    11,935   11,935
Sub-total                  9.205                    10.430    11,620       12.845    14,070   15           15.155   16.240    17.325    18.410    17,325    15!1i   15.155
Total Operating Costs         10960                    27 309    28.561        20.011    31.896   34006    33,0819   34.434    35649    36.864    35 649    33 219
l.eas Fa.ily Labor             9,205                    10.430    11,620        12,845    14,070   15,155    15,155   16,240    17,325    18,410    17,325    15,155   15.155
Toral Casi§ Costs              1.755                    168719    16 941        11 226    11 826   18.851    17,934   18.194    18 324    18.454    18L324    18 064   18044
Iuveat.ent                                             18,640    20,600        6,800       -         -          -        -         7,000       -          -          -         -
uivestaernt plus Operating
C06t                          10,960                    45,949    49,167        36,871    31.896   34,006    33,089   34,434    42,649    36,864    35,649    33,219   33,219
February 3, 1979



8019 IP,^
tWiaSUYOS - LOS ANDES RURJAL DEvtLOútEN[ PRO,IC[
Cr o-8)aI.y  odlI- FloaoLaIc   Aralval.
W ltbo or  ~~~~~~~~~-     - -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  --    -----------------       y--  ----- _    -r   --------     --------- - ---S--     -------  ---  -
Prolsrí               1            2               3              4                                                                                O6  2  -  -  L  11
L8,aor                                   _                   3,600         2,500           -
Co-I                                      -                 14,900        18,100          6.800                                                                             9,g800
Tortal Inv .sí,.,r                          -18,64(                         20,600           6,800           -              -            -            -            -           9,800
Dp r-tI.sa Costa Crol,.'-
Lobor                                 81.680                 2,835         2.940          3,080          3,220          3.220         3,220       3,220        3.220        3,220        3,220         3,220
CasI  fnpurt                                                  5 709       3,824          3,9713         4,443           7,161       4,291        4,300        4,740        6,723        4,300         4.300
.n---A.ti l.po ts                       .7355                -             1 823        1j.823            1 823           -           1.823      _i.823         18                       1.83          1.823
Total Opr-tian Costa Crops                3,365                 8.544         8,587          8,876          9,486         10,381        9.334        9,343       9.783         S,943       9.343          _.3-
28 ratin  <C5osta Dla vI
Labor                                  7,595                 7,595         8,680          9,765         10,850         88,93g        11,935      13,020       14,105       15,190       14,103        11,935
Cash Isps"t                               -                 HalL0         fl,3           11 .430    i 1.560             1169         1.82         12.080      12.20        12,340       12.2t0        iL,92
Toíal Operarlng Co,[. Llv otorl,          7.Lj                18,765        19,980          21, 195        2,410           23,625      23,755      25,1ú0       26.315       27,530       26,315        23,885
Tocal Cosi
Labor                                  9,205                14.030        14,120         12.843         14,070          1515,5      15,833       16.240       17.323       18,410       17,325        i3,855
Casis                                     -                 3.1179        33.224         27.203          16,003         186.63       16,111      16.360       16.930       28,863       ¡6,580        ¡6,230
Non-... , lnpst[ .,75_  140                                                1.823         _I.B23           1.823        -              1.823       1.823        123 3        __           1,823         1 fl _
Total lovast.asnt assd
opar-tin1 C..t.                       10.960                45,949        49,167         36 821         31,696         34,006       33.089       34.443       36,098       47,213       35,658        33,228
Tot-l Prodactíos, Valoa>-'               9.838                27,987        42,211 ,        38,239         48.220         34.160       61,072       67,012      65,572        71,548      60,748        65,428
L.sa Fa-. Cons.ption                   2.953                 3,251         3,5376        J,36            3.576          1.55 73 516                            3.576        3.576        3.516         >,?16
CasI, Salo,  t,e                       6 883                24,36        38,641         34.663         44,644          50,584      57,496       57,496       61,946       67,972       57.172        61,852
Yl,,s hedí,.. lar. Craedit                                  14,900        18,100          6,800                           -                        -
Píos Short-tear   Cr.dIt                -                   16 879        15,124         1.403          16.003         ¡8.851        6.          16,380       16.9_        19.063 0                   16.250
Total c.¡   Inftlow                      6,883                56,315        71,865          56,866         60,641         69,435       73,607      79,876       78,896       87,035       73,682         70,102
Less Reisb.rsasent Medi-
tem  Cr.dit                             -                    -             -              -            15,067         15,061       15,067       15,067         -            -            -             -
1.5  Rel,bsrss-nt Shoot-
tra   Cr-dit                                                 -           18,567         16,636         16.943         17,603       20,736       17,722       18.088       18,645       20,969        18,816
le.s  Pay ..nt Cas 1ph ,,ts              -                  33 119        33224           2.603         1003           18,851       16,111       16.380      _16950        28 863       16.510        16  "S
Ner CasI, loro..                         6,883                24,136        20,074          18,027         12.634         17,914       21,693       30.647      43,978       39,527       36,203        43,693
TíoS F.-. C.n-n.ptloo                  2,955                 3,251         3.576          3,576          3.576          3,576        3,576        3,576        3.576        33576        3,576         3,576
Loas La,-or                            9.205                14,030        14,120         12,845         84,0o0         15,155       15,155       16,240       17.325       18,410       17,325        1.S185
L... Non-,a.h torots                  j1755                    140       -1823            1823          -1,2             -           1.823       1823          1.823         - _          823 3623
i8jL II,COss e(1,122)                                          13,817         7,707          6,935            117          6.335        8,291       16, 160     28,406       24,693       20,631        30.259
Ioíl-ro,ae,tal tlet srcoaa,^/                                 14,939         8,829          8.057           1,439          7,457       9,413       17,282       29,528       25,815       21,753        31,381
F---ao-ibl Ra.t  ní Rturo:  Over 1001
f/  Sae A       2 Tab.. 2
b/ Sae A--oe, 2 T-úls 4 6 5
rl  S e 7,0000 2 Toblr 5
d/  Sro As,ne  2 rabla 9
C/   Hedi-,m-ter.  -redit cover-  th  rs)  i--esta,-nt o            hí Ye-r  , 2, 3.
CasI, 1--e-  --et In Y..ar 4 cao 8' 8 il              by ti.e fao-orer   OVo rraor  es    tlii.É  ---y   odlí. T Trm-  oí th[   tcdi-tOra 1         1a,,s ar  82. I -t-r-st rato,  6-year d--ra..s. 
lacI,,dlog a 2-y.ar grac  porlod.
t/   Shst-ter.  -redit .8  fla-co .88 c.ol  op- rarísie casI            u W   att,  a,--ol lii--res   -tale oi 121 ,ad a  ovara,         d loas, ds,rat-on cl  10 moa-- ,  íery yes  ths   f--e-laar  w,
oloIbicra  so amoiskis eqi.a  tul 1.1 tísas thr val c,oof rho <-osl lhiptso si the precIoso  yoas                                                                        a         re
g/ cníircimel laver th. Ul y l ........................ .1     r                   ,. Irt- *I, 8919  I s--
i c------ly I I, 1979



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 2 Crops and_Sheep
Sheep Investment CoSts
($b)
----------------- Years -------------------------------
Units per  Unit                                     Y 2             3               4
group     os£ t     unitá7  Cost       Units   Cost       Units   Cost    Unlts   Cost
Animal Purchases
Rams                       12    600          10    6,000        -       -          1      600        1      600
Construction
Holding corrals            40    400          40   16,000
Equipment
Hand shears                 4      50         40    2,000       40    2,000
Familly labor (xnandaysya/  120      35        120    4,200
Total Investment                                     28,200              2,000               600               600
Investment per family                                    705                50                15                15
a/ For construction of corral
(D 
Februiary 3, 1979



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 2 - Crops - Sheepa/
Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year)
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  May  June  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.   Total
Crop -b                                 6.6   5.4  12.25  30.7  25.7   -   1.8   3.8   8.95   9.85  1.90  2.05    109
Sheep                                   0.5    -      -     0.5    -    -          -   1.0   0.5    1.0      -     -      3.5
Total Montlhly Dentan& cd               7.1   5.4  12.25  31.2  25.7   -   1.8   4.8   8.95  10.85  1.90  2.05  11.5
Family Labor Available-b/               45      45    45      45    45   45    45    45    45        45     45    45       540
a/ At full development.
b/ Labor demand for crops is similar as that of Model 4.
c/  Montlly family labor availability 45 man-days.  Assuminíg 205 adult equivalent per family of 5 working 20 days per month.
February 7, 197i
ib 



BOLIVIA
OIIASUYOS - LOS ANDES RUJQAL lDEVELOI'PTiFNT P2OJECT
Farm Model 2 - Crops and Sheep
Cropping Pattern, Yields, and Total Production 
Without      ----------------------Years--------------
Units     Project         1          2            3          4       -    5
CrppiPattern
Potatoee                                   ha          0.36         1.00      1.00         1.00       1.00         1.00
Oca                                        ha          0.10        0.10       0.10         0.10       0.10         0.10
Quinua                                     ha          0.08        0.34       0.34         0.34       0.34         0.34
Beans                                      ha          0.11        0.30       0.30         0.30       0.30         0.30
Barley                                     ha          0.34        0.34       0.34         0.34       0.34         0.34
Alfalfa                                    ha          0.01        0.01       Q0l QJ.0L               0.01 0J1L
Total Crops                           ha          1.00        2.09       2.09         2.09        2.09        2.09
Fallow                                     ha          1.09            -         -                  -           -
Pasture                                    ha          1.47         1.47      1.47         1.47       1.47         1.47
Without Agriculture Value                  ha          0 44                  0.44         0.44        0.44 0.-   0.4
Total                                 ha         4.00         4.00      4.00         4.00     *4.00           4.00
Cropping Intenslty                    %             69         100        10G          100        100          100
Yields
Potatoes                                   kg/ha      4,000       4,400      5,300        7,000       8,000        8,000
Oca                                        kg/ha      2,500        2,500     2,500        2,550       2,600        2,600
Quinua                                     kg/ha        500          590       650          790         850          850
Beans                                      kg/ha        550          650       750          800         850          850
Bean straw                                 kg/ha        900          975     1,060        1,140      1,200         1,200
Barley (hay)                               kg/ha      2,700        3,500     4,200        4,600       5,000        5,000
Alfalfa (green)                            kg/ha      6,300        6,300     7,500       10,000      12,500       12,500
Total Production
Potatoes                                   kg         1,440       4,400      5,300        7,000       8,000        8,000
Oca                                        kg           250          250       250          255         260          260
Quinua                                     kg            40          201       221          269         289          289
Beans                                      kg            61          195       225          240         255          255
Bean straw                                 kg            99          293       318          342         360          360  
Barley (hay)                               kg           918        1,190     1,428        1,564       1,700        1,700    z
Alfalfa (green)                            kg            63           63         75         100         125          125



BOLIVIA
u1liAFbYUS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 2 - Crops - Sheep
Crop Production Value
Farmgai.e Price Without                        Years 
CropbD _1er k-&   Prolect  1.                                    2          3          4           5
Potat)es                        3.00       4,320   13,200    15,900    21,000    24,000    24,000
Oca                             ?.17         543       543        543        543        564        564
Quinua a/                       4.4,         120       884        972      1,184      1,272      1,272
Broad beans                     3.50         214       683        788        840        893        893
Bean ,ltrawl'                   9.20          -         -          -          -          -          -
Barl- hqy yb                    k).80         -         -          -          -          -          -
Alfa] íi P                       !.30         -         -          -          -          -          -
Total Producti n Valhe                     5,197   15,310    18,203    23,577    26,729    26,729
Less *n-farm (trnsumpt loncq'              2,955    3,251       3,576      3,576      3,576      3,576
Tota] Cash Sal s                           2,242   12,059    14,627    20,001    23,153    23,153
a  Quinua priced at $b 3.00 without project.
b/ Consur .d on fa:n by anlimals.
c¡ 800 k^: potatoes. 175 ig oca; 5() kg broad beans.  It is assumed consumption
would increaseV>)% eaci year during the first two years.
b1
Februatry I, 1979 



-        ANNEX 2
Table 15
BOLIVIA
0ASL'YOS - L05 ANDES RUk'AL DVF.VELPMEIET PROJECT
rara Modal 2 - Crowp and Sheep
CrOpD Operag±n COati
($b)
Wthout                   -        ------ Year, ----------------
Proiect        1            2           3           4           5            6
Invut3
SeCd
Potatoes                                    2,727       5,400        4,050       4,050       4,050        5,400       4,050
Oca                                            54           54          54          54           54          54          54
Quinua                                           5          15          15          15           15          15          15
B ano                                          66          180         194         202         216          216         216
Barley                                         68          109         109         109         109          109         109
Alfalfa                                         4            9         -             -            -
Sub-Total                             2.924        5.767       4.422       4.430        4.444       5.794       4.444
Fertílizer
Potatoes                                        -            -       1,920       2,000       2,272        2,272       2,272
Oca                                              _           _           _            _           _                        _
Quinua                                                     1 107       190         298          298         298         298
Beans                                            -          63          95         116          126         126         126
Barley                                           -          83         155         226          309         309         309
Alfalfa                                                      6 6         -           -            -           -
Sub-Tota-l                                           259       2.360       2.640        3005        3.005       3.005
Herbicídes, lnsecdcides3 Fungicides
Potatoes                                        -          180       1,056       1,404       1,404       1,044        1,044
Oca                                              .           _
Quinua                                           *           -           -          61           61          61          61
Beans                                            ''
Rarley                                           *-          9           9           9            9           9           9
Alfalfa                                       -                  -       -            -                       ' -
Sub-otal                                 _189                   1.065      1.474        1.474       1.474       1.474
Tractor and Machinery Mire
Quinua                                                     153         153         153         153          1.53        153
Sub-Total                                _           153         153          153         153         153          153
Oxen Use
Potatoes                                      356          990         990         990         990          990         990
Oca                                            39           39          39          39           39          39          39
Quinua                                          9                  -           -                        -           -
Beans                                          13           s0          so          50           50          s0          50
Sarley                                        150          150         150         150         150          150         150
Alfalfa                                       _4                              -                   3
Sub-Total                                571       1,233       1,229       1.229        1.232       1.229       1.229
Sack Replaceiaent
Potatoes                                         -           -       1,000           -            -       1,000            -
Quinua                                                      13                                   13
Sub-Total                               _             13       t.OO             -          13       1.000       _
FamlIy Labor                               Z2660        3.290        3,570       3.710        3.815       3815          815
Total Operatíni Coste                 6.156       10,904      13,799      13,636       14,136      16,470       14,120
Leas:  Vaaily Labor                   2,660        3,290       3,570        3,710       3,815       3,815        3,815
Total Casb Costa                        2,55       7,1~ 4     10.229        9,976      in,321      ¡5 .        1 ,
/ Norratlly lept from ,rrvtoIn, ysrg wtll be rts,'wed evvry íhwur years.
Cocí *f Improved %eed $S  4/kg: po.r Of -:1, de,pt frl  provito" yvsr Sb 3/kg.
IeI.r.ssry 2, ¡fq 



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
BOLIVIA                                                         Table  l6
OMASUYOS - LOS AND6S RUKLU  DZ0fVOPNEXT ?ROJECT
Farm Model 2 Cropc and Sheep
Flock Projection (Flock belonging to 40 familias)
Opening                                End of Year 
Flock Co»=osition    Number          1      2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9   10-20
Rams                   52       30      10      10      10       10      10      10      10      10      10
Ewes                  170      186     211     220    225    225        225     225     225     225     225
Lambs weaned          102      115    131      143    153    158        162     169     169    169    169
Females 2 teeth        42       49      58      65      69       72      74      78      78      78      78
Females 4 teeth        36       44      53      60      64       67      69      73      73      73      73
Males 2 teech          41       49      57      64       69      72      71      53      53      53      53
Males 4 teeth          37       44      53      59      64       67      69      72      72      72      72
Total Amimals            480      517     573      621     654     671     680     680    680    680       680
Total Animal Units!/   44           43      44      46      47      47      47      47      47      47      47
Mortaliry
Rama                    6        3       1        1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1
Ewes                   20       19      17      18      16       16      16      16      16      16      16
Females 2 teeth         9        8       8        7       7       7       7       7       7       7       7
Females 4 teeth         5        5       4       5        5       5       5       4       4       4       4
Males 2 eech          10        9       8        7       8       7       7       7       7       7       7
Males 4 teeth           5        5        5               5       5       5       5       5       5       5
Total              55       49       43      43      42      41      41      40      40      40      40
Sales
Cull rams              -        29      19       -       -        -       9       -       -       - 
Cull ewes              16        -      27      37      48      51       53      57      57      57      57
Males 2 teeth          -         -      -       -       -       -         3      24      24      24      24
Males 4 teeth          31       44      53      59       64      67      69      72      72      72      72
Total              47        73      99      96    112    118       134    153      153    153      153
Purcnases
Rams                   -        10      -                         1      10       -       -       -       -
Coefficients
Lambs veaned           60       62      62      65      68      70       72      75      75      75      75
(% of breeding eves)
Mortalitv
Yearlings %            19       15      12      10      10        9       9       8       8       8       8
Adults %               12       10       8        8       7       7       7       6       6       6       6
Life Wegiht
Culled ram (kg)        22       25      30      40      50      53       53      55      55      55      55
Culled ewe (kg)        18       20      25      30      33       36      37      38      38      38      38
Males 2 teeth (kg>  12          14      16      20       22      24      26      28      28      28      28
Males 4 teeth (kg)  20          22      26      32       34      36      37      38      38      28      28
Wool Production
1 of animals
sheared            33        40      50      75    100    100    100    100    100    100    100
Yield per animal   0.76        0.76   0.80   1.20   1.50   1.80   2.00   2.20   2.5    2.8              2.8
(kg)
a/ 5 adulc sheep - 1 Animal Unit
February 3, 1979



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
Farm Model 2 Crops and Sheep
Sheep Production Projection (Group of 40 Families)
Without  ----------------------------- Years  ----------------------------------
Project  1        2        3        4        5        6       7         8        9    10-20
Wool
No. of animals sheared        73     86      111      173      235      235      235     235      235      235      235
Yield per animal (kg)       0.76   0.76    0.80    1.20    1.50    1.80    2.0            2.20    2.5      2.8      2.8
Total (kg)                  55      65       89      208      253     423      470      517      588      658      658
Pelts (from deaths)             55     49       43       43       42       41       41       40       40       40       49
Meat
Cull rams No.                 -      29       19       -        -        -         9       -         -       -       -
weight (kg)            -    725      570       -        -        -       477       -         -       -        -
Cull ewes No.                16      -        27       37       48       51       53       57       57       57       57
weight (kg)          288      -      675   1,110   1,584   1,836   1,961   2,166   2,166   2,166   2,166
Males 2 teeth No.                    -        -        -        -        -         3       24       24       24       24
weight (kg)                   -       -        -        -        -        78      672      672      672      672
Males 4 teeth No.             31     44       53       59       64       67       69       72       72       72       72
weight (kg)          620    968   1,378   1,888   2,176   2,412   2,553   2,736   2,736   2,736   2,736
Total (kg)                 908  1,693   2,623   2,998   3,760   4,248   4,991   5,574   5,574   5,574   5,574
February 3, 1979



BOLIV IA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farn Model 2: Crops and Sheep
Slheep Production Value and OperatinR Costa
(Group of 40 Families)
Wlthout           ---------------------------------------------Years --------------------------------------------
Prolect           1          2           3          4         5            6         7           8            9        10-20
Production Valuea
Meat
Cuil rams                   -              8,700      6,840        -           -         -          5,724       -          -            -           -
Cull ewes                 3,456             -         8,100      13,320     19,008   22,032        23,532   25,992       25,992       25,992     25,992
Males 2 teeth               -               -           -          -          -          -            936    8,064        8,064        8,064      8,064
Malee 4 teeth             7,440           11,616     16,536      22,656     26,112   28,944        30,636   32,832       32,832       32,832     32,832
Sub-total                10.896           20,316    31.476    35,976    45,120   50,976            60,828   66,888    66.888         66.888    66,888
Woo 1
S,,b-total                1,650            1.950      2,670       6.240    10,59      12.690       1,0   15510           17.640      19,740      19,740
Pelta
Sub-total                 1.100              980        860         860        840        820         820        800        800          800        800
Total Production Value  13.646              23.246    35.006    43.076              0   64.486       75.748   83.198    85.328           72
Leas On-farmn Con-
auamptiob    1          2,960            12.960    12.960    12.960    12.960   12,96             12.960   12,960       12. 960     12.          12960
Total Cashj Sales             686           10,28ú       22.046                 3590      1 6        62.788   70.238       7            74,468     74,468
OperatiuR Costs
Famtiy lahor-dl           4,620            4,515      4,620       4,830      4,935     4,935        4,935     4,935       4,935       4,935       4,935
Aninmal health-             -              2.585      2.865       .105       3.270    3.355   3, 400    3.400   3,400                 3.400   3,400
Total Operating Cost    _4,620               7,10        7.485      7          8 205    8.290         8335       8335
a/  Unlt pricea = meat = $b 12 per kg;  Wool = $b 30 per kg; Pelts -  b 20 per  U.ltX
bl  22 kg mneat; 2 kg wool per family.
c/  3 *nan-days per Animal Unit per year; family labor valued at $b 35 per day.
d/ $b 5 per-anaimal per year.
February 3, 1979



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 2 - Crops and Sbeep
Total Production Value and Operation Coste
($b)
Wtthout      -----------------------        ----------- Years ----------
Prolect       1          2          3          4          5          6           7          8          9       10-20
Production Value
Crops                          5,197    15,310    18,203    23,577    26,729    26,729    26,729    26,729    26,729    26,729    26,729
Sheep                            341        581        875      1.077      1.414      1,612      1.894       2.080    2L133        2.186       2.186
Total Productive Value         5.3       15,891    19,078    24.654    28.143         4         28a623    28 809    28,862    28.915    28 915
Less: On-farm Consumption   3.279         3.575      3,900      3,900      3.900 3.900           3.900      3.900       3.900      3.900.3.900
Total Cash Sales               2.259    12,316    15.178    20            24243    24,441                   24909    24,962    25,015    25,015
Operating Costa
Crops                          3,495      7,614    10,229       9,926    10,321    12,655    10,305    10,305    10,305    10,305    10,305
Shieep                             -         65         72         78         82          84         85         85         85          85         85
Sub'Total                3.495      7.679    10,301    10,004    10,403    12,739    10,390    10,390    10.390    10.390    10.390                             j
Labor (family)
Crops                          2,660      3,290      3,570      3,710      3,815      3,815      3,815       3,815      3,815      3,815      3,815
Sheep                            116        113        116        121        123         124        124        124        124         124        124
Sub-Total                2,776      3,303      3.686      3.831       3.938      3.939      3          3J93       .939        3.939      3.939
Total Operating Costo          6 ,271    10.982    13,987    13,835    14.341    16,678    14.329    14,329    14I329    14.329    14 329
Less:  Famlly labor            2.776      3.303      3.686      3.831      3.938      3.939    3L939         3.939      3L939      3.939      3.939
Total Cash Coats               3495       7.           3       10,004    10.403    12,739    10390                         ,      10,390    10.390
Investment                            -        705         50          15         15          -          -          -           -          -          -
Investínent Plts Operating Cost                                                       -
Cost                            6,271    11687    14,037    13,850    14,356    16,678    14329    14,329    14 29    14,329    14,329
Febriiary 4, 1979
'o



tlOlIVI A
OHASUYOS - _IOS ANDES Rb'RAL u8VL'ill P80JECT
Cínpa-SIeep Hundel 2 - Fiococlal AnaIVl.d
Ulthout                                                           -       Ye----------------------_ -- _- - _- - _-  - _  -----------
___________7                                  Pn'leeí           1         2          o3         _,           S            6          7           8            _          L°           11
L.bor                                                          los                    -
C.ah Leala                                        -            600           0         -                      -            50           50         -           -           -            50
Total                                       -            705          50                                 -            50          50               -           -                  50
OparatLng Cnta _1OPA
L,abor                                         2,660       3,290        3.570       3,710       3,81S       3,815       3,815       3,815       3,615       3,815       3,815        3.815
Cae  Irpora                                    -            7.614       6,179       5,876       6,271      12,655       6,255       6,2'5        7,255      11,655       6,255       7.255
NoM.  calh Inputr                                4                      4.050       4.050       áA-05-.                             f050         4.050         -         4,05        _050
Total OperatnaR Cocí. Crop                6,155       10,904      13,794      13,636      14,136      I6,410      14,120      14,120      15,120      15,470      14,120      15,120
0p.rattnA Costo Shaa,,C/
L.bor                                             116          113         116        121         123         124         124          124         124         124         124          124
Ce.h lpute                                      _-           6_5            72         78          82          84          85          es           85          85          85           8S
Toctl one,etlr R Coíat She.p                116          178         188         194         205         208         209         209         209         209         209          209
Total Cost
Labor.                                         2.776        3,508       3,686      3,831       3.938        3,939       3,939      3,939        3.939       3,939        3,939       3,939
Cesh Input.                                       -          8.279         301     5,954       6.353       12,739       6.390      6,390        71340       11,740       6.340       7,390
Non C..h lop.te                _3.495                         -         §A050      4.050   _               __                      4.050  4       .050     ____ _        4.050       4 050
Totl Iv---.t-ent  n.d Oper.tilta Coat    6,261       11,l87      14,037    13.835       14.341       16,678      14,379    14,379        15.329      15,779      14,319      15,379
Tot. Iprod.ctlon Vl.e1./                       53538       15,f91      19,078    24,654       26.143       28.341      28,623    28,809        28,862      28,915      28,915       20.915
te.. Y r. C.onau ptio.e/                      3 279        3     575   .L90    Adn2"2 3       29 00. 3.                                 90                3,          3 900      .3 900
C    Sales                                2,259       12,316      15,178    20,754       24,243       24,441      24,723    24,709        24,962      25,013      25,015      25.015
plue e.edlr-terre r,cd1t<'                  -            600          50       -                  -           -           -            -                 -           -           -
pía. short-tera crditd                      -    _     1.6 9       6.M       5,954  6,353   IZ             9     73        S         .34. 1340   11,40             6 340       l.h9
Tot.l Ceh Inflo,                          2,259       20,595      21,479    26,708       30.596       37,180      31.063    31,249        32.302    36,75S        31.355      32,355
Ie . ref brI,uraa,t .edfua-tern credi -tt                           -          -            266          266         266        266          4           -           -
lee.  et,en.    ao,t-trrn  --adl                      8,447      6,876       6.349       6,988       14,012      6,974        6,974       8,074      12.914       6,974
¡ese pay..enr rel  fnuoptr.                            8,279       6.301     5.5          _353       12.739       _129        _390         L_9        11 740      _6.40        7 340
Neí Ca.  Inroret                          2,259       12,316       6,731    13,878       17,428       10,395      10,395    17.619        17,988      16,941      12,101      17.995
plSo  F.r- ,on.ue,ptlo.                   3,279        3,575       3,900      3,900       3,900        3.900       3.900      3.900        3.900       3.900       3.,00       3.900
I... lbor                                2,776        3,308       3,686      3,831       3,938       3,939       3,939      3.939         3,939       3,939       3,939       3,939
1.a  ron-rah   pae 3     495        ,0505               -          4.050     4050        4050          -                4050        4        0990        -         4 050       4l299
(733)     12,383       2,895      9,897      13,340       10,3S6       6,306    13.530        13,899      16,902       8.012       12.902
Ne t I nc mne
l-re--entel N.t  -nc-.raLí                                 13,116       3,628    10,630       14,073       11,089       7,039    14,263        14,632      17,635       8,745      14,635
F..anola¡ 9ate of Hetrn         l Oner 100%
S. .e Anneo  2, Table 11
b/ Se A.e.x 2, Table 19
rl Se Annex 2, Table 19
i/ See Annex 2, Table 19
e/  HrdlI,m-t.r. credit royera ibC , aL-  Inve--nt Ian  --rs ¡ And 2.  The  --ounta fr f     ne,                t.ent rane-c-lI  Y-r--  6 *d -   are *o-ll *nd - ou.d be fi--a-ced vdltboutcrr -l1.
Ter-  of th. adtu-ter-  nao..  art 127. 1,ternet raít, 6-year d-ration  Incl.dlng    2-year grco p-e--d.
f/  Sbort-ter- credIt   ill finance .11 carl operat-nh-t.g ---       tb *o.an --  Int--rea-  ra-t    of 12f  *od adr aeege loan dut- lun .f 12 aontha, th. for-, wold -      n-- bur--cI eey
year a-- a--n--t equ4a  t. 1I1 t     b-. vh .I of tha c.aa  Inp"t. of ti.. prevI.o. yeer.
al    cr-- en- -t oer irhe "UltIout ProJect" t tuaín.
Vebruary 3, 1979



OLIVIA
Q AS  - tOS LMmES  RUIUII DYvEIoPHENT *P(:CT
Far. Hodel 3 - Cro.0P nd Alpaca
Alpaca Inveat_nt Coste
Unl t                                  -------------  --- ---------------- -------- ------------ -------                     Ir --------------- --- ----------------rs----- ----- ---------------------------_ ___________  _  ___  ________  _
P-r      U..ít                                                  2                 34                                     3                  6                    189                                                      lO
aorop     Cost                         Unita  Coit         Unita            CoaL  UnU.  Co t     Unita  Coat         Uit*  Cott fnita  Coat                 oIt.  Coat        Unita  Cost         Unta  Cot          U,,1t.  Cort
Constructtion
Holding cor,rlo             40      800                          40      32,000
F.otly lhbor
(<m-dy.V)       a/       160       35                         160        S,600
S.b-Tot.I              -      -           -                  _      37,000      _        _         _        _          _       _
I1.nd oh.*r                240       50                        120_       6,000       _        -         -        -         120   6,000
FlIb- holdIng tabi.         40      300                         40       12,000       -        -                             -       -                  -
Cattle Purchaea
Br-oding -al.               20      900         -                  -       -          -       -          -        -          -                  -       -          -        -          -       -          -        -          lo    9.000        10   9.000
Total I---.atant            -        -          _                  _    55600         -                           -                                                                  -  -    -  -  -      -                             -              S,O
Ionvetnent per fnao.y    -           -         -                   -      1,390                -        -              -             150                -          -       -          -        -          -       _          _        225                225
a F For constr,ctlon of corral..
Feb -r-ary 4, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L



B.OLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
a/
Farm.Model 3 - Crops - Alpaca-/
Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year)
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  Mav  Jurie  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.   Tota
Crops-/                                6.6   5.4  12.25  30.7  25.7    -  1.8   3.8   8.95    9.85 1.90  2.05    109
Alpaca                                 3.0    -      -      3.0   2.0    -        -      -          7.0  2.0   5.0        22
el                                                                                ~~~~~-   -  702050 2
Total  Lbonthly DeAv and-/             9.6   5.4  12.25  33.7  27.7    -  1.8   3.8   8.95   16.85 3.90  7.05 ,131
Family Labor Available-/                45     45     45     45     45     45   4     5 45            45    45    45    540
a/ At full development,.
b/  Labor demand for crops is similar as that of Model 4.
cl  EtontAlly family labor availability 45 maan-days.  Assuning 205 adult equivalent per family of 5 working 20 d#ys per mouth.
February ?, 1979



BOLIVIA
OHASSUYOS- LOS ANDES RtRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 3 - Cropa and Alpaca
Cropping Pattern, Yields, and Total Production
Without       --Years
Units     Protect         1          2            3           4            5
Cropping Pattern
Potatoe-'                                   ha         0.36         1.00       1.00         1.00        1.00         1.00
Oca                                         ha         0.10         0.10       0.10         0.10        0.10         0.10
Quiniua                                     ha         0.08         0.34       0.34         0.34        0.34         0.34
Beans                                       ha         0.11         0.30       0.30         0.30        0.30         0.30
Barley                                     ha          0.34         0.34       0.34         0.34        0.34         0.34
Alfalfa                                     ha          0.01        0 01       O.iL.        O.º9L       Q-L1 0Ll
Total Crops                           ha          1.00         2.09       2.09         2.09        2.09         2.09
Fallow                                      ha          1.09            -          -           -
Pasture                                     ha          1.47        1.47       1.47         1.47        1.47         1.47
Without Agriculture Value                   ha         0.44         0.44        4.44        0.44       0.44          0.44
Total                                 ha          4,00         4.00      4.00         4.00        4.00         4.00       1
Cropping Intensity                    %             69          100        1O0 100                 100          100
Yields
Potatoea                                    kg/ha     4,000        4,400      5,300        7,000       8,000        8,000
Oca                                         kg/ha      2,500       2,500      2,500        2,550       2,600        2,600
Quinua                                      kg/ha        500          590       650          790         850          850
Beans                                       kg/lia       550          650       750          800         850          850
Bean straw                                  kg/ha        900          975     1,060        1,140       1 ,200       1,200
Barley (hay)                                kg/ha      2,700       3,500      4,200        4,600       5,000        5,000
Alfalfa (green)                             kg/ha      6,300        6,300     7,500       10,000      12,500       12,500
Toral Production
Potatoes                                    kg         1,440       4,400      5,300        7,000       8,000        8,000
Oca                                         kg           250          250        250          255         260          260
Quinuwi                                     kg            40          201        221          269         289          289
Beans                                       kg            61          195        225          240         255          255
Bean straw                                  kg            99          293        318          342         360          360  < X
Barley (hay)                                kg           918        1,190     1,428        1,564       1,700        1,700
Alfalfa (green)                             kg            63           63         75          100         125          125



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Value for Farm Model 3 - Crops - Alpaca
Farmgate Price Without              --------- Years   -----------
Crop                       $b  per kg    Project   1            2          3          4           5
Potatoes                        3.00       4,320   13,200    15,900    21,000    24,000    24,000
Oca                             2.17         543       543        543       543        564        564
Quinua a/                       4.40         120       884        972     1,184      1,272      1,272
Broad beans                     3.50         214       683        788       840        893        893
Bean strai§/                    0.20          -         -          -         -          -          -
Barley hqy -b/                  0.80               -               -         -          -          -
Alfalfai b/                     0.30          -         -          -         -          -          -
Total Production Value                     5,197   15,310    18,203    23,577    26,729    26,729
Less on-farnm Consumption ç                2,955    3,251      3,576      3,576      3,576      3,576
Total Cash Sales                           2,242   12,059    14,627    20,001    23,153    23,153
a/ Quinua priced at $b.3.00 without project.
b/ Consumed on farm by animals.
c/ 800 kg potatoes; 175 kg oca; 50 kg broad beans.  It is assumed consumption
would increasel0% each year during the fírst two years.
February 3, 1979
tD 



-75-
BOLIVIA                                                                     Table 25
OMA.SUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 3 - Crops and Alpaca
Operaing Co_Sts
($b)
Ui thaut  -         --_            -      Year  -------__----_-----
Pro lect       1            2           3           4            5           e
Invute
Potatoaes                                   2,727       5,400        4,050       4,050       4,050        5,400       4,050
54          54          54           54          54          54           54
5          1           U            U           U           IS           15
¡cafle                                         66          180         194         202          216         216          216
aarley                                         68          109         109         109          109         109          109
Alfolfa                                                        
Sub-Tetal                             2.924        5.767       4.2U2        4430        4,444       5.794        5.444
Fertiliter
Patate.-                                                     -       1,920       2,000       2,272        2,272       2,272
Oea
qunua                                            -         107         190         298          298         298          298
Zeana                                            -          63          95         116          126         126          126
barley                                           -          83         155         226          309         309          309
Alfalfa                                        _             6         _           _              _           _
Sub.Total                              -             259       2.360        2.640       3.005       3.005        3.005
Herbicides. Insecrícides, Funticides
Potatoea                                         -         180       1,C56       1,404       1,404        1.044       1,044
Oca
quinu                                            -           -           -          61           61          61           61
Beo                                              -     -           -                  -           -           -            -
Zarl.y                                           -           9           9           9 9                      9
Alfalfa                                          -           -         _              -           -
Sub-total                                  -         189       1.065        1474        1.474       1.474        1.474
Tractor arid Machinerv Hire
Quinua                                         -           153         153         153          153         153          153
Sub.Total                                  -         153          153         153         153          153         153
Oxen Use
Potato*a                                      356          990         990         990          990         990          990
Oca                                            39           39          39           39          39          39           39
Quinua                                           9                                    ----
seana                                           13          50          S0          50           50          50           50
¡arley                                        150          150         150          150         150         150          150
Alfalfa                                                    _           _                                   -           -
Sub-Total                                571       1.233       1.229        1.229       1.232        1.229       1.2^9
Sack Replacesent
Pntatoa                                          -           -       1,000            -           -       1, 000
Qutnua                                                      15                                   13
Sub-Total                                             13       1.000                       13        1 000            -
Pa.mivy Labor                               2,660        3.290       3.570       3.710       3_=15        3515         3.815
Total Oereting Cot                   6,156       10.904       13,799      13,636      14,;36      16,470       14,120
Lees:  Faaily Labor                   2,660        3.290       3,570        3,710       3,815        3,e1S       3,815
Total Caeh Costa                        3445       7,614     _10.229        t.:?       10.3'1      I ,s         10.305
a/ Normallv k"rí tr       evtou.pv  - ve"r wi1l be rfenwed *very four yeers.
Coas  o1 ImPtrved aed Sb 4iklj; c*t of ,ed dept tram prevtoum  ye.r Sb 3Sia.
February 2. 1979



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVEIJ`PMENT PROJECT
Model 3: Crops and Alpaca
Herd Prolection
(Herd BelongLng to 40 Families)
Without         --__------------------------------End of Year                                   -
Prolect         1           2          3          4          5          6           7          8          9           10         11         12
Herd Composition
Breeding males              160          164         120         88         68        52          48        40          32          24          24         24         24
Breedtng females            160          168        168         184        204       224         256       260         260         260        260    ,  260          260
Females 1-2 yrs.             20           16         24          36         36        48          56        60          72          76          76         76         76
Males 1-2 yra.               20           20          28         28         40        44          60        56          72          76          76         76          76
Female calves                24           28         36          40         48        60          64         76         80          80          80         80         80
Male calves                  24           28          32         40         48        60          64         76         80          80          80    I   80          80
Total Animela                 408          424        408         416        444       488         548        568        596         596         596        596        596
Total Animal Unita-l          180          184         170        168        174       184         210        208        218         218         218        218        218
Nortalitv
Adulta                       41           32          28         28         28        24          24         28         24          24          24         24         24
Calves                       12            16         16         20         24        24           28        28         24          24          24         24         24
Total                          53           48         44          48         52        48          52         56         48                      48         48         48
To~~_=tal                                                                                                                                 - _  
Sales
Cull adult males             -            -          48          48         40        40          24         20         20          22          22         12          12
Cu`ll adult females          -                        -          -          -         -           -         40          40          40          40         40         40
Breeding females 1-2 yrs  -               -          -           -          -         -           -          -           7          20          20         24         20
Breedirig males 1-2 yrs      -            -                                                       20        40          44          60          64    ,   60          64
Total                          -            _          48          48         40        40          44        100        108         142         146        136        136
Purchases
Breeding males               -            -          -           -          -         -           -         -           -           10          10         -          -
Coefficienite
Calves weaned (2 of
breeding females)           35           45         50         60          60        65          70        70          70          70          70         70
Mortality adults %           10            8           7          7          7         5           5          5          4           4           4          4         -
Mortality calves 7           22           20         20          20         20        18          18         15         14          14          13         13         -
Fiber Productiori
Yield pet animal (kg)   0.80             0.80       0.80       0.824      0.849    0.878         0.909    0.941       0.974        1.02       1.06        1.10       1.14
a/  2 adialt alpaca - 1 Animal Unit.
February 3, 1979



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 3: Cropa and Alpaca
Alpaca Production Prolection
Without                                  -----------Yeara---
Prolect        1           2          3          4         5           6          7          8            9          10         11          12
Fiber
No. of animal. oheared        180          376         364        368        392       440         496        512        548          548        548        548         548
Yield per animal (kg)         0.80         0.80       0.80        0.824      0.849    0.878        0.909    0.941        0.974        1.02       1.06       1.10        1.14
Total Production (kg)    144             301        291         303        333       386         451       482         534         559         581        603         625
White (kg)al                 36           75          73         76         83        96         158        169        187         252         261        271        281
Color (kg)                  108          226        218         227        250       290         293        313        347         307         320        332         344
Pelta
Adults                         41           32          28         28         28        24           24        28         24           24         24         24          24
Calves                         12            16         16         20         24        24           28        28         24           24         24          24         24
Livestock
Cull adult males               -             -          48         48         40        40           24        20         20           22         22          12         12
Cull adult females             -             -          -          -          -         -            -         40         40           40         40         40          40
Breedlng females 1-2 yrs    -               -           -          -          -         -            -         -           4           20         20         24          20
Breedlng males 1-2 yrs         -            -           -          -          -         -            20        40         44           60         64         60          64
a/  Proportion of whlte to color Is:  25% from year 0 to 5
35% from year 6 to 8
45t from year 9 to 11
February 3, 1979



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOP~NT PROJECT
Far. Model 3 - Crop and Alpaca
Alpaca Production Value and Operating Costa (Group of 40 Familles)
Wtthout--------------------------------___----------------  years -------
Prolect       1         2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11        12
Production Value
el
Llvestock
Cull adult males                    -          -    17,280    17,280    14,400    14,400         8,640      7,200      7,200      7,920      7,920      7,920      4,320
Buil adult males                                          -          -          -          -         -    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000
Breedtng females 1-2 yeara                     -          -               -          -               -          -      2,000    10,000    10,000    12,000    10,000
Breedtng males 1-2 yeara            -          -          -          -       _             -    15.000    30.000    33,000    45,000    48,000    45.000    48.000
Sub-Total                                   -    17,280    17,280           14,400    144Q   23,640    49202    54,200    74,920    77.920    73.320    74.320
Fiber
Suib-Total                 11,304    23,618    22,854    23.796    26,130    30.280    37.304    39,874    44.166    48,596    50.470    52,386    54,302
c/
Fíber                                                                                                                                                        ,
Sub-Total                   1,190      1,360     1,320    1j580        1.840      1.800      2,060      2,100      1.800      1.800 1JJ             1,800      1.800
Total Production Value           12,494    24,978    41,454    42,656    42,370    46,480    63,004    91,174   100,166   125,316   130,190   127,506   130,422
Less:  o0-fara Use  d/            5.440      5.440      5, 5440     5,440    5.440      5.440      5.440 5±440                                            5 440      5.440
Total Cash Sales                  7  54    19,538    36.014    37216    36.930    41,040              6      85 734    94,726   119 876   124,750   122 066   124,982
Operating Costa
Famstly labor  /                 25,200    25,760    23,800    23,520    24,360    25,760    29,400    29,120    30,520    30,520    30,520    30,520    30,520
Anlmal th i                           -     4.240      4,080      4,160     4.440      4.880      5.480      5,680   5,960 5.960              5.960      5,960
Total Operating Coat             25.200    30 000    27 880    27.680    28 800    30 640    34,880    3                36.480    36 410    36 480    36 480    36.480
al  Cull adult males at $b 360 and cull adult females at $b 300; breeding females at
$b 500 and breeding males at $b 750.
b:' Whlte ftber at $b 110 per kg; color ffber at $b 68 per kg.
cl  Adulta at $b 10 acid young at $b 65.
1f/  2 kg of color flber per year per famtly or $b 5,440 for 40 families.                                                                                               .- 
e/  4 mandaya per anlmal unit per yeAr; family labor valued *t $b 35 per day.                                                                                            v.e
fl  $b 10 per animal,
Febrc¡ary 4, 1979



BOLIVIA
OHASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELolMENT PROJECT
Farm Hodel 3 - Crop and Alpaca
Total Production Valul and Operating Costa
Without      ----------------------------------------------- Yeara ---------------
Project       1          2         3          4         5            6          7         8          9        10         11         12
Production Value
Crops                        5,197    15,310    18,203    23,577    26.729    26,729         26,729    26,729    26,729    26,729    26,729    26,729    26,729
Alpaca                         312        624     1.036      1066      1,059      1162        1575       2.279      2,504     3.133      3.255     3.188      3.261
Tetal troduotion Value       5,509    15,934    19,239    24,643    27,788    27,891         28,304    29,008    29,233    29,862    29,984    29,917    29,990
Leass  On-Warm Couaumption  3.091      3,387      3.712     3,712      3.712      3.712       3,712      3.712     3.712      3.712      3.712     3,712      3,712
Total Cash Sales        2.418    12,547    15.527    20.931       ,        24,179       24,592    25296    25,521    26150    26272    26,205    33,702
Operating (;cost
Cropa                        3,495      7,614    10,229     9,926    10.321    12,655        10,305    10,305    10,305    10,305    10,305    10,305    10,305
Alpaca                           -        106       102        104       111        122          137       142        149       149        149        149       149
Suib-Totwl              3,495     7720    10,331    10.030    10,432    12,777          10,442    10.447    10,454    10,454    10,454    10,454    10,454
Labor
Crops                        2,660      3,290     3,570      3,710     3,815      3,815       3,815      3,815      3,815     3,815      3,815      3,815     3,815
Alpaca                         630        644       595        588       609        644         735        728        763       763        763        763       763
Sub-Total               3,290     3,934     4,165      4.298      4.424     4.459        4.550     4.542      4e578      4,578    4.578       4.578      4.578
Total Operating Costa        6 785    11.654    14,496    14.328    14,856    17,236         14,992    14,989    15.032    15,032    15,032    15.032    15,032
Less:  Fanilly labor         3.290     3.934      4.165     4.298      4,424     4,459        4,550      4.542     4      577            4.578     4,578      4.578
Total Cash Costs             3.495      7,720    10,331    10,030    10,432    12,777        10.442    10,447    10.454    10454    10454    10.454    10 454
Investment                          -     1,390          -          -       150          _           -          _          _       225        225          -          -
Investment plus Operattng
Cost                         6,785    11,654    14,496    14,328    15,006    17,236         14,992    14,989    15,032    15,257    15,257    15,032    15,032
February 4, 1979



-oOLI VI
JH/.SUYOS - LOS AhE  ¿9 R¿UL lDE6LVwíHmNT Pt¿OJEC3
CroPa-AIttEa 21d0.  3-               A,,atea1
______           t         A          '          4          5           e          7           _          9     ~          1
l T-1                                          -          14--0 _  _                        150                              2                                   2 -
Cal.                                           -f       Ln       _   -           -          150        -           -          -           -          225        225
Op.r.tiag Colta C-opOE/
Lab.u                                        2,660      3,290      3.570       3.710      3.815      3,015      3,815       3.815      3.815       3.815      3.815      3OS
Co.h ínp.t                                     -        161t4      6,179    51,86         6.271    12.655       6.255       6.253      7,255    a1.635        6.255     71253
Non    b h  nPote                            3.45                  4.050      4050       4_050          -       4,050      4_050       4 O5t    _       -       OSO      4,050
loto, Oper-t,na Co.t Crop.                   6.155     10.904     13,199     13,636    14,136    16,470        ¡4.120    14,120       15,120     13,470      14.120     15,313
Operatína Costa ASpaoa
Lab.t                                          630        644        595         588        609        644         135        728         763        763        763         763
Ces. I.p.t_ -                                             106         102        104        111        122         137        12         ¡     14      9 f,4                 f4
Total Oef...tí.n  Co.te Alv.                   630        750        697         692        720        766        812         870        912         912        912        912
T-tLe¡ 0Mt
L bor                                        3,290      4.074      4.165      4,298       4,424      4,459      4,550       4,543      4.578      4,538       4,578      4,518
Casi                                           -        8.920      6.281      3.180       6.532     12,777      6,392       6.397      7.404     12,029       6,629      7,404
M.. tsa.  lopota                            3.495         1          0                   4.050        _         i 050      4.050       AC¡e          -        f.05       4, 0
Total Inve3t5Int *nd Or,tCtín,  CpBt    6,785          13,044    14,496      14,328      15,006    17,236    14.992        14.990     16.032    16,607       15,253     16,032
Total Produ llo.. Vsluoy -                        5.S09    15,934    1I.239    24.643    27,788    27,8S91    2,304             29.008    29.233    29,842    29,964          29,T11
e                                            1*aa lot., íooe,s.pllon8/        3              . ,AU     3.,8712at              3 712  3..1II    .i.s.li_    .11711 a  1.712  3L1 33  3.7. .a l.               1.711 12
Cs.h Salo.                                     2,418     ¡2,541     15,521      20.931    24,016    24,179    24.592         25,296     25.521      26.150     26,272      26.205
ploa e.l-ter   otadí  /                          -        I,250         -          -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -
píoa *horí-lar. oraídtt'                       ___ ,_¡Q -7-al                   5.98O    _6 381    12,777         6.392       63,        7.404    IJ ¿IP4    4.44          21.404
Total Cas6 1..tío.s                            2,418     21,317    21,808       26,911     30,458    36,956    30.984        31,693     32,925    317,954      32,676    53.609
¡ sss tel .buese..ot  aedlsa-tatt Ora.dit        -          -           -          -          516        316        516         316                    -          -
lasa rslaboto..aot ehort-lt.t atadí              _          _        8,492      6,909       6,578      7,020     14.055       7,031      1,037      8,144      12,94       7.04
¡esa paYa.oout l   a.                                     L!2        _          5.980      LI5,    12.277         6.392       6.392      1.404      12.029      4I629        404
Nat Caah I.--o                                 2,418    12,547       7,035      14,022     16,832    16,643      10.021      11,749     18.484      117,61     13,063      13,141
pío, f-a  3ona0 pt¡on                          3.691      3,367      3,112       3,712      3,712    12 3,12      3. 12        3.112       3,712      31 12     3,112      3,712
1    1. labor                                  3,290      4,074      4,165      4,298      4,424       4,459      4.550      4.543       4,57d      4.517       4.578      4.578
leas n. nasi.h Inpot.                          3.495        -        £,         4.050       4.050                 400         £,M        4,939         -        993        1939
851 In00,55                                   (I.2761   11.860       ¡,3>j       9.3b4     12 019 1 5,89S         5.133    11356d    16,S,   lib.15             8 1}4     142.45
Inrt-enLl Net In.Ca'l                            -       13,136      3,808    10,662       13,346    171,72       6.409    14.144       14.844    18,191        9,423    13.321
Flo,ooIol ¿at. of IKtett Oe-r 100<
8/ 60o.o 2, Tobla 21
_/Ana   , Tabl. al
A.... 2, T.bl. 26
EL  An..X 2. T.81. 28
-k--,,.  2, T.1.1  28
£/   el -te        -dter    -ted -l c-re th. c-a-, ínoet 1.  Yoear 1.  lb. aont. ot rh  Ie.t..nt ta S.... 4, 9 ..4 10 ar-   _11 *                   t.og h .o s. llnanced olíl.o
,^y crdl.  lb. t*-. of thI. moedlu -te,  1o-- rt 122                    ---ar t.t reía, 6-y.at  do,.talo    01clo$ a Z-yer graos petIod,
-/ S-ort-ter. credlt  Itíl f(tInc.   .11 Cl a  optr.ting coat.  Ulth a., ar       Intr..*t rata of 121 *.n  *n *oe-fi*   losn d.sttoa ol 10  -.rh.,  -ery y-or
ti.. torear .0,14 rel.4o  ,e  s.o.snu   eqalí te  1 1  tI-. ib-  -ol- of  t         as  lah Ippt  af tth. pr-1Q. . >r-
1  Ireea-    t over tIh- li.hout Prole     s ítulont  o
Fel.tosty ú, 1979



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
a/
Farm Model 4 - Crops   3.5 ha
Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year)
Crops                      ha       Jan.  Feb.  Mar. Apr.  Nay  June  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.          Dec.     Total
Potatoes                   1.0      4.5   4.5    -    20    20       -     -    -        6      7    -        -          62
Oca                        0.10     0.6   0.6    -    2.4   2.4    -       -    -      1.0    1.0    -        -            8
Quinua                     0.34      -     -      -    3.3   3.3    -      -    1.8   1.8      -     -       1.8          12
Beans                      0.30     1.2    -    7.0    -      -           1.8   2.0    -       _     -        -           12
Barley                     0.34     0.3   0.3   5.0   5.0    -             -    -      -      1.7    1.7      -           14
Alfalfa                    0.01      -    -      n2-                   - _LI _    =S-   nL.5   n lñ   0.25                 1
Total Monthly Demand                6.6   5.4  12.25 30.7  25.7    -    1.8   3.8   8.95   9.85   1.90   2.05            109
Family Labor AvailabIeb/            45    45    45    45    45       45   45    45    45      45     45      45          540
al At full development.
b/ Assumes 2.25 adult equivalent per family of five working 20 days per month.
February 7, 1979



- 82 -
AJ=EX 2
WWi1e32
BOLIVIA
OMAS1tOS - LOS AIDm  XURAL 0EVLO.MNT FRLWnBc
Para Moda¡ 4 - CropS 3.5 ha
-4
Cromnlnx ?acetrn. Ylel.s. Total Production. and Productioa Value
Widhout  ----------Yes ---
Unita     Pro1ect          1          2            3           4             5
Croppíng Pactern
Poataer.a                                    ha          0.36         1.00       1.0t         1.00        1.00         1.00
Oca                                          ha          0.10         0.10       0.10.        0.10        0.10         0.10
Quinua                                       ha          0.08         0.34      0.34          0.34        0.34         0.34
Beane                                        ha          0.11         0.30      0.30'         0.30        0.30         0.30
Barley                                       ha          0.34         0.34      0.34          0.34        0.34         0.34
Alfalfa                                      ha          0.01         0.01      Q¡.LL         °-°1        0.61         o ni
Total Cropa                            ha          1.00         2.09       2.09.         2.09        2            2.09
?allow                                       ha          1.09            -          -                         -            -
Pascure                                      ha          1.47         1.47      1.47          1.47        1.47         1.47
Without Agriculture Value                    ha                       0 44       Q.44.        044        0.44          0.44
Total                                  ha          4.00         4.00       4.00         4.00        4.00          4.00
Cropping Intenaity                     %             69          100        lOC          100         100           100
Yields
Potatoes                                     kg/ha      4,000        4,400      5,300        7,000       8,000        8,000
Oca                                          kg/ha      2,500        2,500      2,500        2,550       2,600        2,600
Quinua                                       kg/ha        500          590        650          790         850           850
3eana                                        kg/ha        550          650        750          800         850           850
3ean strgw                                  kg/h&         900          975      1,060        1,140       1 ,200       1,200
Barley (hay)                                 kg/ha      2,700        3,500      4,200        4,600       5,000        5,000
Alfalfa (grean)                              kg/ha      6,300        6,300      7,500       10,000      12,500       12,500
Total Production
Potatoas                                    kg          1,440       4,400      5,300         7,000       8,000        8,000
Oca                                          kg           250          250        250          255         260           260
Quinua                                      kg             40          201        221          269         289           289
Bean,                                        kg            61          195        225          240         255           255
Bean straw                                   kg            99          293        318          342         360           360
Barley (hay)                                 kg           918        1,190      1,428        1,564       1,700         1,700
Alfalfa (grean)                              kg            63           63         75          100          125          125
Farugate Price
Produccion Value                        Sb oer ka
Potatoes                                     3.0        4,320       13,200    15,900        21,000      24,000       24,000
Oca                                          2.17         543          543        543          553         564           564
Quinua al                                    4.40         120          884        972        1,184       1,272         1,272
Beans                                        3.50         214          683        788          840         893           893
Bean straw                                   0.20          20           59         64           68          72            72
Barley (hay)                                 0.80         734          952      1,142        1,251       1,360        1,360
Alfalfa                                      0.30          19           19         23           30           38           38
Total Production Value                            5.970       16.340    19.432        24.926      28 199        28,199
Less:  On-far Consuption b/                       2 955        3.251      3.576         3.576       3.576        3.576
Total Cash Sales                                  3.015       13,089    15.856         21 350      24 623
a7  Quínua priced ae $b 3.00 without project
b/  800 kg potatoes, 175 kg Oca; 50 kg Beans.
Consuuption assumed to increase 107. during
first and second year.
February 7, 1979



- S3 .
ANQE 2
80LIVt&b                                                     lable 33
m.u.tlro9 - L0S M*f95  R0~I  0EELWwrt .3
rum  Model 4 - CropL 3.5 ha
CroP OserALinz Costa
Without      ----------------------- Y,~, ---------------------------
?roiect        1           2           3           4           5            6
Seed *
Potstoa                                    2,727       5,400       4,050        4,050       4,050       5,400       4,050
Oca                                            54          54          54          54          54          54          54
Quinua                                          5          15          15          u           15          15           15
3ecn                                           66         S80         194         202         216         216         216
Barley                                         68         109         109         109         109         109         109
Alfalfa                                         4           9           _-        _             _         _       
Sub-Total                             2j924       5.767       4.422       4.430       4.444       5.794        4,444
Fertilizer
Poatoes                                                     -       1,920       2,000       2,272       2,272       2,272
Oca                                             .           _           _           _           _
Quinu                                           -         107         190         298         298         298         298
B 3a                                                       63          95         116         126         126         126
Sarley                                          -          83         155         226         309         309         309
Alfalfa                                       _             6           -           -           -                        -
Sub-Total                                           259       2.360       2.640       3.005       300          3.005
Herbicidea. In&ectícides. Fungicides
Potatoe                                         -         180       1,056       1,404       1,404       1,044       1,044
Oca
Quinua                                          -           -           -          61          6i          61          61
B-,ssn                                                -                 -           -                       -      
3arl2ey                                         -           9           9           9           9           9           9
kLLalta                                                                           -                                   _
Sub-Total                                           L 1E9     1.065       1.474       1.474       1.474        1.474
Tractor cad Hachi rv litre
Quinua                                        -           153                     153         153         153         153
Sub-Total                               -                 153         153         153          153        _5 153
Oxen U-*
Potatoes                                      356         990         990         990         990         990         990
Oca                                            39          39          39          39          39          39          39
Quinua                                          9           -
Bea*&                                          13          50          50          50          50          50          50
Barley                                        50         150         150         150         150         150         150
Alfalfa                                         4                                               3
Sub-Total                               571       1.233       1229        1.229       1.232        1.229       1.229
Sack Reolareunt
Potaroes                                        -           -       1,000                       -       1,000           -
Quirua                                        _            13                                  13
Sub-Total                                  -3                 1.000                       13       1.000           -
Y±lv Labor                                 2,660        3.290       3           3.710       3.815       3.815       3.815
Total OPeratina Coset                 6.156      10,904      13,799      13,636      14,136       16,470      14,120
Lasa:  Fanily Labor                  2,660        3,290       3,570       3,710       3,815        3,815       3,815
Total Caab Cocts                       3.495      7á1        10.229       9,926      1C.321       12.655 6     0.305
' Normally kept frem prevtcua year vill be renevad every four yiars.
-  Coet of improved aead $b 4/kg; cost of saeed depc fr= previous year Sb 3/kg.
February 2, 1979



BOLIVIA
OMAUYO)S - LOS AN DES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECCT
Farm¡ Model 4 - Crops 3.5 ha
Financial Analylsi
WI.thou t                                     ($b)
a/                        Prolect         1           2         3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         11
Costa
Labor                         2,660       3,290     3,570      3,710       3,815      3,815      3,815      3,815      3,815      3,815       3,815      3,815
Casli itputs                       -     7,614      6,179      5,876      6,271      12,655      6,255      6,255      7.255    11,655       6,255       7,255
Non cash inputs               3.495           -     4.050      4.050       4050           -      4J050      4.050    .4050              -    4,050       4.050
Total costa             -6155      10,9904    13,799    13,636    14,136    16,470    14,120    14J120    15,120    15,470    14.120    15,120
Production value                  5,970    16,340    19,432    24,926    28,199    28,199    28,199    28,199    28,199    28,199    28,199    28,199
Leas:  Farm consuniption b/  2,955        3.251     3576       357  6 3.576                      3576       3,576      3,576      3.576       357 '
Total Cash Soles               3,015    13,089    15,856    21,350    24,623    24,623    24,623    24,623    24,623    24,623    24,623    24,623
Leas: Relmburserient of
credit  c/             _             -     8.375      6.797       6.464      6,898    13,920         6    .881   6       7.981    12,820        6,881
Net Cash Iacome               3,015    13,089        7,481    14,553    18,159       17,725    10.703    17,742       17,742    16,642       11,803    17,742
Plus: Farm consumption        2,955      3,251      3,576      3,576       3,576      3,576      3,576      3,576      3,576      3,576      3,576       3,576
Less:  Iabor                  2,660      3,290      3,570      3,710       3,815      3,815      3,815      3,815      3,815      3,815       3,815      3,815
less:  Non cash Inputs        3,995           -     4,050      4.050      4,050           -      4,050      4 050      4,050           -     4.050       4,050
Net Income                      (185)   13,050      3.437     10,369    13,870    17,486         6.414    13,453    13,453    16,403          7,514    13,453
Increisental net income d/            -    13.235       3         1.0544    1           1           6,599    13 638      13,638    16,588       7,699    13, 638
Financial Rate of Return:  Over 100%
a/  See Anulex 2. Table 33
b/  See Aminex 2, Table 32
c/  With an alinual Intereat rate Of 12%. and ati average losn duratit>n of 10 w,iontha,
every year the farmer would reimburse an amount equal to 1.1 times tIhe value
of t8e cash tnputs of the previous year                                                                                                                       t 
d/  llicrenlent over tlie "Without Project" situation.
February 4, 1979



BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 5 - Crops
Estímated Labor Budget
Crops                         ha      Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.  May   June   July   Aug.  Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.  Total
Potatoes                      0.40   2.0    2.0       -        7     7     -       -     -      2.8    3.2      -       -       24
Oca                            0.10   0.6    0.6      -      2.4   2.4      -      -     -      1.0    1.0      -       -        8
Quinua                        0.17    -       -       -     1.65  1.65    -        -    0.9    0.9       -      -       0.9      6
Beans                         0.27   1.0    5.0       -       -     -      -      1.4   1.6      -       -      -       _        9
Barley                        0.05    -       -       0.75  0.75   -       -       -     -       -      0.25    0.25   -         2
Alfalfa                        0.01    -       -      0.25   -      -       -      -      -     0.15   0.15    0.20   0.25    1
Total Montly Demand                   3.6    7.6      1.0  11.8  11.05    -       1.4   2.5    4.85   4.6       0.45   1.15   50
Family  Labor Availableb/              45      45      45    45      45    45      45    45       45    45         45     45   640
al At full development.
b/  Assumes 2.25 adult equivalent per family of five working 20 days per moath.
February 8, 1979
.> r'"



- 86 -
SOLZVZA                                                                   ANNE  2
BIUaba 36
OMASDYOS - LOS XIDVS ajRAL 3EVELPMENT 1ROIC-
0arm model S   Crup# 1.0 ha
Cz;c:inar ?attern. Yialdx. Tocal P?du  pi. and 'todnin,. 7.7S,
ViLbouc                ------------------------Ye rs- -------_--_____________
u_i__                       ?roecrsl                            2              3             4              5
Croopina ?actern
Potacoes              ha                          0.30                 0.40           0.40          0.40          0.40           0.40
Oca                   h-                          0.10                 0.10           0.10          0.10           0.10          0.10
QuinLua               ha                          0.10                  0.17          0.17          0.17           0.17          0.17
3eans                 ha                          0.27                 0.27           0.27          0.27          0.27           0.'7
3arley                ha                          0.10                 0.05           0.05          0.05          0.05           0.-5
Alfalfa               ha                          0.01                 0.01           0.01          0.01           0.01          0.01
Fallow                ha                          0.12                   _             _
Total                                          1OC1                                1. 00         1..10                        1 00
Cropping lntensity   7                              88                   10.           loo           100            100           100
Yted
Pocacoan             kgi/ha                      4,000                 4,400          5,300         7,000         8,000          3,oo0
lca                  kg/ha                       2,500                 2,500          2,500         2,550          2,600         2,600
Quinua               kg/ha                         500                    590           650           790            B50            350
Sean:                kg/ha                         550                   650            750           800            350           aso
Bean srtaw           kg/ha                         900                   975          1,060         1,140         1,200          1,200
2arley (hay)         'g/ha                      .2,700                 3,500         4,200          4,600         s,aooq         5,000
Alialfa (green)                                  6,300                 6,300          7,500        10,000         12,50        12,;00
Total ° cduction
?otatoes               kg                        1,200                 1,760          2,120         2,300         3,200          3,200
Oca                    kg                          250                    250           250           255            260           260
Quinua                 kg                            50                   100           111            134           145            145
Seaus                  kg.                         149                    176           203           216            230           230
Sean straw             sg                          243                   263            286           308            324           324
Barlay                 cS                          270                    175           210           230            250           250
Alfalfa                kg                           63                     63            75           100            125           12.5
F armgate Price
?roduction Value         Sb oer kg
2otatoea                 3.00                    3,600                 5,280          6,360         8,400         9,600          9,600
3ca                       2.17                     543                   543            543           553            564           564
Quinua a/                 4.40                     150                   440            488           590            638           638
Beana                    3.50                      522                   616            711           756           805            805
Bean strav               0.20                       49                    53             57            62             65             5
3arley                    0.80                     216                    140           168           184            200           100
Al_alfa                   0.30                       19                    19            23            30             38            38
Tocal Production
Value                                            5,099                 7,091          8,350        10,l75        11,910         11,910
Lesa on-Cara
conaumptioaV                                      2,955                 3,251          3,576         3,j76         3,576          3,576
-otal Cash Sales                                   2,144                  3,a40         4,774         6,999          3,334         3,334
a¡ uin*ia priced at Sb 3.00 without project.
7/  300 -g pocatoes; 175 kg oca; 50 kg beans.  Consumption asaumed to
increase 10% durtng the tirst and second year.
February 3; 1979



* 87 -
ANIIZ 2
Table 37
OHStUYOS - lOS AMDS kA  DOYMLOW  PR~J1CI
Fara Model 5: Crois 1.0 ha
Oisrat±na Copla
Wttheut                       -----------------------.---------------
Pro1ect                                            2              3                           5                6
Innuta
Seed
*/
Potatoa-               818                      2,160                 1,620         1.620          1,620         2,160            1,620
Oca                     54                          54                   54             54            54            54               54
Quinua.                  6                           a                    8              a             a             a                8
Baana                  162                        162                   175           l8l            194           194              194
Barley                  20                          16                   16             16            16            16               16
Alfalfa                 .                           4                     9              9             9             9                9
Sub-cotal            1.060                      2.404                 1.882         1.88           1.301         2.441            1.901
Fertilizars
P2oatces                -                         -                     768           800            909           909              909
Oca                     -                          -                    -              -             -             -                -
Quinua                                              54                   95            149           149           149              149
:_n                     -                          57                    85           104            113           113              113
Bari.y                  -                           12                   23             33            46            46               46
A.fillfa               _                                                 -_
Sub-tocal             _                           129                   971         1.0S6          1.217         1.217-           1.217
ferbicias. Insactí-
cidas. Fue.zicid.m
pocatoes                -                          72                   422           562            562           562              562
Oca                                                                     -              - 
Quiína                  -                          -                    '               31            31            31               31
8.ana                   -                         -                     -             --                                   
3arley                  -                           1                     1              1             1             1                1
-AIL1a-----                                                 -                                                                           -.£l
Sub-total                                          7 /3                 42394 594                    594           594
Tractor and Machinerv
aire
Quinra                                              77                   77             77            77            77
Sub-total                                          77                    77             77            77            77               77
Oxer Use
Po^tale                297                        396                   396           396            396           396              396
Oca                     39                          39                   39             39            39            39               39
Quinua                  11                                              -              -             -             -                -
Seano                   45                         45                    45            45             45            45               45
3arley                  44                          22                   22             22            22            22               22
Alfalfa                  4.                          4                                                             -                  - 
Sub-total              440                        506                   502           502            505           502              502
Ssck Peolaent
POtCo                   -                         -                     400           -              -             400              -
Quinua                                                                    7          J-
Sub-total              _                          -                     407           _                            400              -
Lúr
F"dily               1.435                      L.540                 1.680         1.71-5         1.750         1.750            1,750
Total Cosnt            2.935                      4,729                 5,942          5,862         6,044.         5981            6,041
a/   cormally k~pt fr= tbs pr«vi.ow  yar vill be rm4.ed  every  fto4  yar.  Cost of seed.
February 3, 1979



<*tI~IYi>}.   ti .v&L  IIU  I. UE~VE - bNií PMOJMUT
1.0 ¡la Crop Mde1 5
Financial Anal mia
($b)
Without         --------------------------------------------------Ye a------------------------------------------------
Prolect1                     2          3          4          5           6          7          8            9          10         I1
Labor                      1,435          1,540      1,680       1,715      1,750     1,750        1,750    1,750       1,750        1,750      1,750       1,750
Caah Ifiputa                -             3,189      2,642      2,527       2,671     5,231       2,671    2,671        3,071        4,831      2,671       3,071
Noa-casia laIputa         J                 -_       1,620      1.620       1.62        -          1 O620    L1.62 U.2                 1        1,ó20       1.620
Total Cash                   2,935          4,729      5,942      5,862       6,041    6,981        6,041    6,041        6.441        6,581      6,041'    6.441
1rodiactlon Va1ue-/          5,099          7,091      t,350     10,575    11,910   11,910         11,910    11,910      11,910       11,910     11,910      11,910
Leaaa Far  Conau.ption   2.955                                  33.27516             3,51         .576    3.576        3.576 J Z f      3.576  37Z         3.576
Total Caah Sales             2,144          3,840      4,774      6,999       8,334    8,334         8,334     8,334      8,334        8,334      f,334       11,334
Lema Retiabursement
uf CredItc/                -                 _ 3               2.906      2.780    2,938                                5.751 2.938  2.938  3 .     37   d
Net Cash lico.e             2,144          3,840      1,266      4,093       5,554    5,396         2,580    5,396       5,396        4,956      3,020       5,396
P01gFarw Conawp            2,955          3,251      3,576      3,576       3,576    3,576        3,576    3,576        3,576        3,576      3,576       3,576
Leaa Labor                 1,435          1,540      1,680      1,715       1,750    1,750        1,750      1,750      1,750        1,750      1,750       1,750
Leas Non-camh loputa       1.500            -        12         1.620       1.20        -         1.620    1.90         1.>620         -        l 0           60
Net Inneo                    2,164          5,551      1,542      4,334       5,760     7.222       2,786    5,602        5,602        6,782      3,226       5,602
íncreental Net Ineam/                       3,387       (622)    2,170        3,596    5.058           622    3,438       3,438        3.438      3,438       3,438
Finjaicial Rate of Return: Over 100l .
a/ See Anwatx 2, Table 37
b/ See Aiaaex 2, Table 36
£/  With an annuial interert rate of 12l and an avara$e loan duratiou> of 10 moniha every year the  armier wouid
retmburae an amount equal tu 1.1 tu,ec the value of the cash inpu.ta of tbe previous year.
d/  hatcremaent over the "Without Project" bituation.
Febrcaa,ry 3, 1979



- 89-                                       ANNEX 2
BGLIVIA                                      Table 39
OMASUrYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forestry Component
Production Model, 1 ha-Plantation
Eucalyptus Plantations
No. of         No. of         No. of                          Construc-
Seedlings      Trees in      Trees to           Fuel Wqood    tion WTood   Pitprops
Years      Planted        Year 6         be Harvested        (143)         (M3)           (M3)
1          1,600
2
3
4
5
6                         1,200
7                                           60                2
8                                           70                2
9                                           80                2             1
10                                           90                2
li-                                         100                2             1           1.0
12                                         1.10                2             1           1.4
13                                          120                2             1           1.8
14                                          130                2             1           2.2
15                                          140                2             1           2.6
16                                          150                2             1           3.0
17  a/                                       L20               2             1           1
18                                          120                2             1           1
19                                          120                2             1           1
20                                          120                2             1           1
21                                          120                2             1           1
22                                          120                2             1           1
23                                          120                2             1           1
24                                          120                2             1           1
25                                          120                2             1           1
26                                          120                2             1           1
a/   Second 10-year rotation begins.



- 90-                                    ANITEX 2
Table 40
BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forestry Component
Cash Flow of 1-ha of Eucalyptus
Revenues
Initial    al                    Construction
Year            Investment  -   Fue! Wood           Wood          Pitprops    Total
-   ------                   - -$>--------
1                2,500
2
3
4
5
6
7                                  520                                         520
8                                  520                                         520
9                                  520              400                        920
10                                  520              400                        920
11                                  520              400           562        1,482
12                                  520              400           787        1.707
13                                  520              400         1,012       1,932
14                                  520              400         1,236        2,156
15                                  520              400         1,461        2,381
16                                  520              400         1,686       2,606
17  c/                              520              400           562       1,482
18                                  520              400           562        1,482
19                                  520              400           562        1,482
20                                  520              400           562       1,482
21                                  520              400           562        1,482
22                                  520              400           562        1,482
23                                  520              400           562        1,482
24                                  520              400           562        1,482
25                                  520              400           562        1,482
26                                  520              400           562        1,L82
a/  No operating cost.
b/  Fuel wood, $b 260 m3; construction wood, $b 400 m3; pítprops, $b 736 m3 (16 pieces)
minegate.
c/  Second 10-year  rotation be-ins.



- 91 -
3B0LIVT.
OMASUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVEL0PMD4T PROJECT
Detailed Proi-ct Cost (USW)
Project Years         -             Total          Eoregn
1             2             3               4          Cost           Ex-hange
Qn-farm Investment
Sh-ep                                            3,000          6,250         9,500         12,750         31,500          4,700
Alpaca                                           3,100          6,250         9,350          12,500         31,200         10,900
Dairy                                          149.000        330,000       472,500        563.000      1.514.500        113.550
On-farm Investment Subcotal                     155,100        342.500       491.350        588,250      1.577.200        129.150
Tractors                                           -           120,000(4)    120,000(4)    120,000(4)    360,000(12)   324,000
Production Credit
Sheep                                           38,400        69,650         99,400        131,200        338,650        162,500
Alpaca                                          19,300         35,000        49,700         65,900        169,900         81,450
Dairy                                          168,800       151,250 -      238,450        235,650        794,150        119,100
Crops                                          155,850        127,850       159,950        240,100        683,750        259,800
Others                                           5.000         10,000        15,000         20,000         50,000         20,000
Production Credit Subtotal                      387.350        393,750       562,500        692.850      2,036,450        642.850
Torestrv a
I2vestrYnt a/                                   48,000          -              -              -            48,000         30,190
Technical Asaistance b                          10,000           -             -              -            10,000         10,000
Operating Cost                                  39,984         40,798        41,652         42,550        164,984         12,200
Farmers Credit-                                  7,500        22500          22,500         22.500        ,75000          Z2.500
Forestry Subtotal                               105.484        63,298         64.152         65,050        297,984          74,890
Road.s      tI                                   45,350         45,350        45,350          45,350       181,400          32,000
Main=etance                                                    45.350        45,350         45.350        181.400          32.000
Roads Subtotal-      -                           90,700         90.700        90,700         90,700        362.800         64.000
Water Supp1y and Waste Diaposal
Wells                                           50,000(500)   60,000(600)   80,000(800)  110,000(1,100)300,000(3,000)160,000
Pit Privies                                      5.000<500     6.000(600)    8.000(800)   ll,OO(1,100) 30.000(3,000) 15.000
Subtotal                                         55,000        66.000         88,000        121,000        330,300        175,000
Teceinical and Admínistrative Suport
Vetiicles e/                                   226,750          2,5In^       10,Oo          12,500        251.750        -39,150
Equipment                                       '4,1"n          -              -              -            24,300         20,450i
Other Investment                               415,000          -              -              _           415,000        134,200
Technical Assistance                            30,000         30,000          -              -            60,000         54,000
Operating Cost                                 391.800       449.450        511,050        581.950      1.934.250         98.800
Suototal                                     1,087,850        481,950        521,050        594,450      2,685,300        546,600
Total Baseline Cost                           1,881,484      1.558,198     1,937,752      2.272.300      7,649.734      lx958 400
a/  Includes one truck and cwo four-wheel trive vehicl.e.
D/ Forty csn-days for nursery specialist.
ci About 50 Km of roads to be improved.
di About 50 Xm of roadt to be maintained.
el 16 four-wheel drive vehicles, 25 motorcycles, 2 trucks, 5 pick-upa, and 1 carry-all.
f/  One year of a dairy specíalist.



- 92 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS - LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
(a)  Omasuyos-Los Andes Rural Development Project Preparation Report,
FAO/Bank Cooperative Program, Volume I and II, Report No.
39/78 BOL, 11, August 10, 1978.
(b) Consideraciones Sobre el Desarrollo Agropecuario y Agro-
Industrial de Bolivia, September 1978.
(c)  Economic Memorandum on Bolivia, IBRD, Report No. 2195-BO,
November 1978.
(d) Appraisal of Ulla Ulla Development Project - Bolivia, IBRD,
Report No. 1708a-BO, December 1978.
(e) Appraisal of Ingavi Rural Development Project - Bolivia,
IBRD, Report No. 936-BO, February 1976.
Appraisal Mission Working Papers
(a) Agricultural Credit
(b) Road Program
(c) Water Supply and Waste Disposal Facilities Program
(d) Forestry Program
(e) Proposed Agricultural Program
(f) Technical Assistance
(g) Socio-Cultural Characteristics of Local Population
(h) Role of Women



ABRD- 14079
Nos. X      ROMASUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-o.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .  -   ,   .
N<       ArMES                                              O <      R4  ,.E Mar,, 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A Acc  E.Go- St  \P ol Ac
F.M;ec  RFn, E
0> ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~          
/    >~~~5  <2\ 7<  \9TYARRRIOS  \~~~~5    E 
-- >s \ \ \ O<M A S U Y          OfS \ 4 a
F1F  s--  -e   <R2Z \      \       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O--.
*/~~~~~ 2>  -       om-PTLA     
¡~~      Z r hR  
P  E  Rc                                                                 2~ ,st U-!jA        e" lo       lu
¡~ ~ ~ ~~                r \,                  9/>\
"  n _  , A  N, LC          tX   E S        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
/   e,'t                                      X   \    >    
_  {   \    EVW zasb Xf:ys2soz r > -yr «oreFwv~~~~~~~~~~~~ 21>s  _  /Ká  }-    N 4 t  *iL 2 i, i~~~~~~'
L...,_                                            F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



