Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                FILE COPY
Repor No. P-2574-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR THE
OMASUYOS LOS ANDES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 4, 1979
Thi documet kw a restited dIdribtie sd my be used. by reeJlpiass ay in bke perfonae oP
their o.ik0 . dufe. lb coInte  may mt othrwise be dlisd..d witt!t WOelB Ibdk athoralies.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =          $b20.0O (Bolivian Pesos)
$b 1.00         =           US$0.05
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAB      -    Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
CDF      -    Forestry Development Center
CONEPLAN -    Ministry of Planning and Coordination
CORDEPAZ -    Development Corporation of La Paz
DESEC    -    Center for Social and Economic Development
FOMO     -    National Manpower Services
IBTA     -    Bolivia Institute for Agricultural Technology
IFAD     -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
INBOPIA  -    National Institute for Handicrafts and Small Industries
INC      -    National Colonization Institute
INFOL    -    National Institute for the Development of Wool
MACA     -    Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture
PAN      -    Northern Altiplano Project
PIL      -    Industrialized Mfilk Plant
SNC      -    National Road Service
SNDC     -    National Community Development Service
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
Omasuyos-Los Andes Rural Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Government of Bolivia
Beneficiaries:         A semi-autonomous agency (Project Unit) under the
Ministerlo de Asuntos Campesinos y Agropecuarios (MACA),
the Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB), the Servicio
Nacional de Caminos (SNC), and the Centro de Desarrollo
Forestal (CDF).
Amount:                US$3.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       Government would channel credits to farmers groups
through the Central Bank and BAB, which would receive
an annual service charge of 3%. On-farm investment
credits would have a 12% interest rate and a maturity
of up to six years, including up to two years of
grace; production credits, a 12% interest rate and a
maturity of up to 15 months with no grace period.
Terms for forestry investment credits would be
determined on a case-by-case basis.
Project Description:  The project would continue previous Bank efforts to
foster rural development in the Altiplano. It would
focus on increases in productivity and production
of small farmers thus improving their incomes
and living standards. The project would consist of a
directly productive component including credit for
on-farm investment, production inputs, forestry, and
other productive activities; an infrastructure component,
including upgrading feeder roads, and provision of water
supply and waste disposal facilities; and an administ-
rative and technical support component providing
technical assistance, extension services and production
inputs to participating farmers. The project design is
considered to be of low risk because it is based on
experiences gained under the Bank's two ongoing rural
development projects in Bolivia.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost;
Investment Category              Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ million -----
1.  Productive Investment         3.10      1.17     4.27
2.  Infrastructure                0.45      0.24     0.69
3.  Administrative &
Technical Support             2.14      0.55     2.69
4.  Total Base Line Costs         5.69      1.96      7.65
5.  Contingencies                 1.18      0.50      1.68
Total Project Cost          6.87     2.46      9.33
Financing Plan:
Government  Beneficiaries    IFAD        IDA    Total
Amount (US$ M)             2.2          0.1             4.0     3.0       9.3
% of total                  24            1              43      32       100
Estimated
Disbursement:        Bank FY       1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Amount        0.15   0.85   0.90   0.70   0.40
Cumulative   0.15   1.00   1.90   2.60   3.00
Economic Rate
of Return:           36%
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 2475-BO, dated May 24, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA FOR
THE OMASUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent of US$3.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance the Omasuyos-Los Andes Rural Development
Project in Bolivia's Altiplano. The project would be co-financed by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) with an amount of
US$4.0 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Bolivia" (No. 2195-BO)
dated November 3, 1978, was distributed to the Executive Directors. Economic
missions have visited Bolivia in October 1978 and March 1979 to review current
developments and discuss policy measures with the Government. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Despite the increasing importance of natural gas exports, as well
as significant mineral deposits, Bolivia remains one of the poorest countries
in South America. The majority of its population is engaged in traditional
agriculture; only a small part of the labor force is employed in the modern
sector. The infrastructure of this mountainous country is primitive and the
road and rail networks reach only a fraction of the country. Most of the pop-
ulation live in the inhospitable 3,000 to 4,000 m high plateau, the Altiplano,
where physical conditions are very harsh.
4.        The 1952 revolution sought to put an end to the dual structure which
had characterized Bolivia's economy since colonial times, and to deprive the
landowning and mining oligarchy of its economic base. This objective was
partially achieved. Progress was made in eradicating feudal relations, dis-
tributing the land and eliminating obstacles to social mobility, notably
through an impressive effort in primary education. The agrarian reform and
the nationalization of large mines, however, were followed by falling produc-
tion. GDP declined in the 1950s and did not recover to its pre-1952 level
until 1961. During the subsequent decade, output increased steadily at an



-2-
average annual rate of around 5%, providing for per capita income increases
averaging 2.5% p.a. As a result, GNP per capita, which had fallen by 24% in
the 1952-60 period, recovered to its 1952 level by 1970 and was more equally
distributed. However, the momentum of economic growth was again lost in
1969/71, when political instability led to declining private investment
and deteriorating public finances. The deterioration of public finances
reflected a structural problem in the economy. Bolivia's public sector is
proportionately one of the largest in South America and a source of liveli-
hood for a sizeable segment of the population. With scarce employment oppor-
tunities in the private sector, pressures to expand public employment proved
difficult to resist. Large expenditures on wages and salaries, combined with
a weak tax system, limited the resources available for public investment.
Moreover, the inability of the public sector to generate adequate savings
limited its capacity to utilize available external capital assistance
effectively.
5.        From mid 1971 to mid 1978, political stability and the Government's
encouragement of private sector investment raised hopes for a more rapid pace
of economic development. In addition, during the early 1970s Bolivia's ex-
ports of petroleum increased considerably, and it was generally expected that
this upward trend would continue in the future. Public investment and external
lending decisions were largely based on this expectation which seemed reason-
able at the time. The Government launched an ambitious public investment
program financed largely through external borrowing, expecting to have no
difficulty servicing the loans out of future petroleum revenues. Petroleum
exports began to decline, however, in 1975, because of insufficient output
in the face of rapidly rising internal demand. Through 1976 this decline
was largely offset by increased exports of natural gas to Argentina, but
in 1977 petroleum exports dropped to a point where current earnings from
hydrocarbon exports declined. At the end of 1978 petroleum exports came to
a virtual halt. As a result, Bolivia has become even more dependent, once
again, on exports of minerals, mainly of tin.
6.        Since most of the ongoing public investment projects were initiated
when petroleum prospects seemed favorable, they cannot now be stopped without
economic loss. The Government has therefore tried to make up the export
shortfall through additional external borrowing. As a consequence, Bolivia's
public debt outstanding and disbursed increased rapidly; the end-1978 estimate
is US$1.8 billion. As a result of increased borrowing from commercial banks
and suppliers, the structure of the external debt has worsened; the grant
element of new loans fell from 40% in 1974 to 16% in 1978.
Recent Economic Performance and Prospects
7.        The Bolivian economy is going through a very difficult phase.  The
overall public deficit has increased from about 1% of GDP in 1974 to 11-12%
in 1978. The current account deficit of the balance of payments has widened



-3-
from 5.3% of GDP inr 1974 to 8.4% in 1978. 1/ During tite last two years,
the rate of GDP growth has been declining and the rate of inflation accelera-
ting. According to the La Paz Consumer Price index (the only official price
index in Bolivia), prices increased by 10% in 1978; estimates made by the
Central Bank indicate an inflation rate of about 19%. Indications are that
the rate of inflation has been increasing further in 1979. The new Government
is expected to take measures in order to bring the rate of inflation down to
an average of about 15% over the next years, the same as the average during
1970-1977.
8.        The service on external debt now absorbs about 30% of exports of
goods and services. This ratio cannot be expected to improve during the
next few years and will probably fluctuate around 35%, an undesirable figure
for a country so dependent on a single export, tin, which is characterized
by wide fluctuations in demand and price. The country's balance of payments
prospects are not encouraging for the immediate future. The volume of mineral
exports has been stagnating and, even with production-st`mulating changes in
mining taxes, no sharp increase in volume is to be expec ed during 1979 and
1980. However, a more favorable environment for private mining enterprises,
modernization investment in the Bolivian Mining Corporation, and greater
exploration efforts could bring about substantial increases in output and
exports in the medium term. Non-traditional exports account for a small
share of all exports and while encouragement is also required in this area,
favorable effects will only in the longer term significantly affect exports.
9.        Bolivia's most promising export potential lies in natural gas.
Exports to Argentina are expected to increase as additional pumps begin to
operate on the pipeline during 1979. The construction of a natural gas pipe-
line to Brazil could improve Bolivia's balance of payments position substan-
tially. A letter of intent has been signed by the Bolivian and Brazilian
Governments, laying down the principles regarding the pipeline- While further
studies are required to prove the existence of sufficient gas reserves, once
this is done the way would be open for an increase in total exports in the
order of 25-30% in the mid-1980s. The petroleum situation is less clear;
exports cannot be expected to resume on a substantial scale before additional
reserves are confirmed.
10.       In sum, while Bolivia's medium-term export prospects are moderately
favorable if efforts are made to promote them, it is difficult to see much
scope for improvement during the next two to three years. The vagaries of
international mineral prices will continue to have a decisive effect on the
country's export earnings during that time.
11.       The main internal cause of financial strain is the weak position of
the principal state enterprises. Foremost among them is the State Petroleum
Corporation, whose finances have been seriously affected by the Government
keeping domestic fuel prices at a fraction of the world market level. Since
the Corporation is also one of the largest taxpayers in Bolivia its financial
weakness is reflected in Central Government revenue shortfalls. Other state
corporations such as COMIBOL, which owns and operates the country's major
mines, and ENAF, the National Smelting Corporation, which has embarked on a
large-scale investment effort, have large overall deficits which owing to
considerable investment expenditures, low productivity and/or inappropriate
1/   These figures are but orders of magnitude because the statistics on
which they are based suffer from considerable error, but they are
indicative of a grave deterioration.



wage policies, rather than to depressed prices. The financial situation of
the railroads has deteriorated because of severe damage resulting from
recent floods. As noted above, because many of these investments are already
well advanced, it is unrealistic to expect a drastic decline in expenditure
over less than two to three years; nor would such a decline be rational when
many projects are expected to show satisfactory rates of return once they are
completed. As on-going investment projects are gradually completed it should
become possible to reduce the amounts spent and to bring public investment in
line with the country's public savings and export capacity.
12.       A new Government is scheduled to take office in August 1979.  The
present administration considers itself a caretaker; this is the main reason
why some of the remedial actions that the present financial situation requires
have not been taken yet. The administration is fully aware of the seriousness
of the situation and has outlined elements of a stabilization program aimed
at reducing the public deficit, narrowing the balance of payments deficit on
current account, and restricting external borrowing. The major measures con-
templated are a much needed increase in the domestic price of petroleum pro-
ducts and a series of tax and tariff adjustments. For the reasons outlined
above and because of the temporary character of the present Government, sig-
nificant improvement cannot be expected before late summer at the earliest.
13.       Bolivia's creditworthiness for lending on conventional terms is
limited at present. Emphasis should be given to projects in the hydrocarbon
sector with a clearly identifiable effect on production for export. Because
of the need to improve Bolivia's debt management--and the reluctance of com-
mercial lenders to increase their exposure in the country--Bolivia will have
to limit its foreign borrowing to priority projects and make maximum use
of soft-term lending from international institutions and bilaterals to get
through the difficult next two or three years. We are following economic
developments very closely and are engaged in a detailed and frank dialogue
with the Bolivian authorities.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
14.       Although Bolivia is an original member of the Bank, it did not
obtain any Bank Group financing until 1964. Because of Bolivia's restricted
capacity to service external debt, Bank Group financing was, except for a
US$23.25 million Gas Pipeline loan, exclusively on IDA terms until Bolivia
started to export small quantities of natural gas and petroleum. In view of
promising prospects for rapid expansion, Bolivia was graduated from IDA in
1975. In 1978, however, it became apparent that the expectations of large
petroleum exports, and with it dynamic economic development, would not mate-
rialize. Starting with the Ulla Ulla rural development project, financed in
equal shares on Bank and IDA terms, Bolivia was made a blend country.
Bolivia's economic situation has deteriorated significantly since then;
petroleum production has declined and the country is expected to become a
net importer in the near future. Development is still seriously constrained



by the dual structure of the economy; a large part of the population continues
to live in extreme poverty. Limited creditworthiness and low per capita
income qualify Bolivia for IDA eligibility. To date, the Bank and IDA have
approved 23 operations (10 credits, 12 loans and one blend operation) for
Bolivia amounting to US$313.8 million, of which 8 have been fully disbursed.
15.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has assisted in the development of
infrastructure and social sectors. In the agricultural sector (7 operations
amounting to US$45.2 million), the Bank Group has helped the Government
developing a livestock industry, increasing agricultural production, improv-
ing living conditions on the Altiplano, and promoting the development of the
alpaca/llama industry; efforts to strengthen the Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
as a development institution have met with limited success. In the power
sector (5 operations amounting to US$53.4 million), the Bank Group has been
instrumental in modernizing the sector, expanding electricity supply and
setting up a regulatory agency and a public power company, which has been
operated in an efficient and financially sound manner. In the transportation
sector, Bank Group assistance to the railways (3 operations amounting to
US$75.0 million of which US$3.3 million was cancelled) has helped to improve
the railways' quality of management, efficiency of operations and financial
condition; a US$23.3 million loan was made for the construction of a gas pipe-
line from the Santa Cruz area to the border with Argentina; a US$25.0 million
loan for an aviation development project is assisting Bolivia's efforts to
develop hitherto isolated areas by providing efficient freight and passenger
transportation; a US$25.0 million loan for a highway maintenance project is
helping Bolivia protect its investments in highways. In the mining sector
(3 operations amounting to US$28.2 million), Bank Group participation has
aimed at increased production and improved sectoral coordination. A US$11.5
million loan for a water supply and sewerage project, of which US$6.3 million
was cancelled as two cities withdrew from the project, is improving services
in 70 rural communities. A US$15 million loan for an education and vocational
training project is assisting Bolivia to develop its human resources in a more
effective way. Finally, a US$17 million loan is helping Bolivia to improve
the living conditions of the urban poor in the city of La Paz.
16.       Because of the narrow scope for private investment, IFC became
active in Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a firm
producing cables and plastic products. Three IFC investments since then have
contributed to the establishment of a local market for long-term securities:
an equity participation of up to US$550,000 in Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA),
in conjunction with a Bank loan of US$10.0 million for the same institution,
to assist in financing medium-sized industrial and mining enterprises;
US$337,500 in Banco Hipotecario Nacional to assist in the development of
mortgage banking; and a US$2.3 million investment in a plastics firm. Annex II
contains a summary statement of the status of Bank loans and IDA credits in
Bolivia as of January 31, 1979, and IFC investments as of February 28, 1979,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia during the recent past has been sup-
portive of a broadly based Government effort to expand and upgrade Bolivia's
economic and social infrastructure. Until recently, the Government had



- 6 -
established an excellent record in providing the required counterpart financing;
in general projects have been adequately carried out. However, the recent
deterioration in the public finances and the balance of payments have made it
necessary to reexamine Bank Group lending objectives. Special efforts will be
made in supporting projects that would help Bolivia to increase exports. In
the longer run, Bank Group volume and composition of lending will depend on the
measures taken by the Government to raise additional revenues and to stabilize
the economy and improve the balance of payments.
18.       For the period 1974-78, total official development assistance to
Bolivia has been as follows: Bank, US$216.4 million; IDA, US$23.7; Inter-
American Development Bank, US$188.8 million, US Agency for International
Development US$157.5 million, other, US$203.3 million. Net of undisbursed
balances, Bolivia's debt to the Bank and IDA in 1978 represented 7.2% of its
public debt. Bank and IDA's share of the Bolivian debt service was 3.0% in
1978.
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
19.       Sector Characteristics.  Agriculture in Bolivia contributes 25% to
GDP and provides employment for about 60% of the labor force. Until 1973,
agricultural growth was low, averaging 1.9% annually; since then, however,
annual growth rates have reached to 4-6%. In spite of this improvement,
domestic demand exceeds domestic production, resulting in a negative agricul-
tural trade balance. Currently, agricultural products (mainly edible oils,
lard, dairy products and wheat flour) account for about 25% of Bolivia's
imports. Agricultural exports (sugar, coffee, fruits and lumber) were of
little importance until 1970, accounting for less than 5% of total exports.
Since then, with the rapid expansion of commercial farms in Santa Cruz,
agriculture's share has gradually risen to about 15%. In addition to these
products, Bolivia has good potential for the production of tobacco, rubber,
cocoa, oilseeds, and wool products of sheep, llama and alpaca.
20.       The difference in soils and micro-climates of the three main pro-
duction zones, the highlands (Altiplano), intermediate valleys, and lowlands,
has resulted in a broad range of productive activities. In the Altiplano,
farmers grow mainly potatoes, quinoa, barley and tubers and raise sheep,
llamas, and alpacas and some dairy cattle. In the Valleys, a number of
sub-tropical crops are grown and there are some livestock activities. In
the lowlands, the predominant crops are sugarcane and cotton, and there are
many medium and largescale livestock operations. The economic and social
characteristics of the sector are highly diverse. Agricultural production in
the Altiplano, largely based on subsistence, has remained stagnant at very
low levels. The small scale of farm operations, adverse climatic conditions
and low soil fertility impose stringent constraints on the application of
improved technology. The subsistence economy contrasts sharply with the
dynamic commercial agriculture in the lowlands, which has received the bulk
of public and private investment.



- 7 -
21.       Policy Issues.  Thus far, the Government of Bolivia has not designed
a coherent agricultural development strategy. While Government sought
to expand the economy through hydrocarbon and mineral development, the agri-
cultural sector received only little support after the large scale land
reform of the early 'fifties, and there was no attempt to develop its produc-
tive potential and export possibilities. Moreover, present policies have
been a major obstacle to agricultural development. The most important
problem is the Government's price policy. To support short-term interests of
the urban consumer, the Government imposed price controls for most agricultural
products in the late 1950s. As a result, agricultural growth slowed down and
led to increasing imports. Adoption of new technology and application of
modern inputs were impaired, and productivity stagnated. The price differen-
tial between Bolivia and neighboring countries encouraged considerable
smuggling, reducing the supply for the domestic market. While the Government
recently relaxed price controls on some commodities, further adjustments will
be necessary to provide sufficient incentives to the sector. Similarly, the
Government's exchange rate and tariff policy constrain agricultural develop-
ment. Although the general price level in Bolivia has increased faster than
that of its major trading partners, the exchange rate has not been adjusted
since 1972. Export taxes, one of the most important revenue sources for the
Government, are high and discourage exports; at the same time, tariffs
increase the prices of most imported agricultural inputs. In addition, the
Government is selling large quantities of wheat and dairy products, which it
receives as grant from international donors, at prices below the world market
level thus discouraging domestic production.
22.       In the last few years the authorities have recognized the negative
implication of these policies and have sought to place more emphasis on the
agricultural sector. The national development plan for 1976 to 1980 empha-
sizes food production, eradicating rural poverty, and promoting agricultural
exports. However, until now the Government has failed to transform its
overall planning objectives into a detailed sector strategy, and it has done
little to prepare and implement policies that are conducive to agricultural
development. We intend to discuss the importance of policy changes with the
new Government scheduled to take office in August 1979 and we plan, in this
context, to carry out a detailed agricultural sector study.
Structural Constraints and Development Strategy
23.       Promoting Resettlement.  A major development constraint in Bolivia's
agricultural sector is the imbalance between its land resources and the
distribution of its rural population. While most of the country's peasants
live in the Altiplano and valleys, vast areas in the Oriente with fertile
soils and a favorable climate are not cultivated at all. The Altiplano and
valleys, which account for about 84% of the rural population, contribute only
52% to agricultural production. The lowlands, on the other hand, while
comprising only some 16% of Bolivia's rural population, contribute 48%.
In the future, migration from Altiplano and valleys to the lowlands will
be increasingly important in expanding the agricultural frontier.



-8-
24.       So far, the experience of the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacion
(INC) with organized settlements has not always been encouraging; the spon-
taneous colonization process has proved more flexible in responding to
economic opportunities than Government directed colonization projects.
Spontaneous settlers, on the other hand, while more successful in raising
production, usually cause serious environmental damage. In view of the
unfavorable experience with organized settlement and the necessity to
promote migration on a large scale, the Government plans to concentrate its
efforts on spontaneous migration by providing low cost assistance for the
consolidation of spontaneous settlements and application of appropriate
farming methods.
25.       Improving Resource Utilization.  On most farms throughout Bolivia,
productivity and land use intensities are low and could be increased sub-
stantially. In Valleys and lowlands, large areas have fertile soils and a
favorable climate but lack water during the dry season. Irrigation would
allow double cropping and yield increases. The Government is aware that
developing this potential requires sizeable public investments. With the
assistance of IDB, it is preparing a pilot project for irrigation development
in Bolivia's Chaco, the area south of Santa Cruz; and it intends to implement
irrigation projects in the valleys of Cochabamba and Tarija.
26.       A major resource of Bolivia's agricultural sector are the natural
pastures in the lowlands. With these resources, Bolivia has the potential
for becoming an international supplier of beef. However, the country has
hardly been able to meet its limited internal demand. While the Government
has, with the assistance of the Bank, implemented several Livestock projects,
new long term loans are required for modernizing investments and intensifying
production.
27.       Fostering Rural Development.  The prevailing subsistence agricul-
ture is a major obstacle to agricultural development in the Altiplano and an
impediment to social progress.   Production is based on traditional methods,
fertilizer and graded seeds are practically not applied and modern farm
machinery non-existent. Poor living standards and social services reflect the
low level of economic development. With assistance from the Bank, the Govern-
ment is attempting to alleviate the most urgent problems in the area. Assist-
ance to farmers in the Altiplano concentrates on increasing productivity
and raising incomes, based on limited investment costs per family and benefits
spread to the largest extent possible. In addition, promoting migration from
the highlands to the lowlands will be an important component in these efforts
to reduce the population pressure and prevent further fragmentation of small
farms.
28.       Upgrading Support Services.  A critical constraint to the
modernization of the agricultural sector has been the lack of an efficient
agricultural credit system. This has affected predominantly small farmers,
but also the commercial agriculture in the Oriente. The Banco Agricola de
Bolivia (BAB), the single most important source of agricultural credit, was
designed as an institution to benefit small farmers, but it has gradually



- 9 -
concentrated its efforts on financing medium- to large-size operations.
Currently, BAB faces serious financial and administrative problems.
Since BAB had to assume bad portfolios of commercial banks, a large
percentage of its outstanding loans is in arrears. In addition, BAB
has excessively high operating costs. As a first step of a rehabilitation
program the Government recently paid off BAB's overdue debts and changed its
management. The Bank has offered technical advice and is considering a
livestock credit project in conjunction with a rehabilitation program.
29.       Agricultural research and the extension service do not meet the
requirements of the sector. Research has not been concentrated on specific
areas nor directed toward urgent problems. Also, research stations receive
only limited financial support, and hence, are forced to operate mainly as -
commercial farms in order to generate income to sustain operations. The
extension service suffers mainly from financial problems. Budget cuts and
limited operational funds as well as salary reductions caused restrictions in
the supplied services and forced a large number of trained Bolivian personnel
to leave the extension programs. To provide an institutional basis for
improving efficiency and coordinating research and extension the Government
created the Bolivian Institute for Agricultural Technology (IBTA). In
addition, IDB is currently processing a proposed US$8 million loan to
expand and upgrade IBTA's operations.
30.       Marketing.  Marketing problems comprise mainly two areas--product
quality and transportation. Lacking product quality has hampered exports
and promotes imports of products for high income consumers. For example,
processed milk is imported although Bolivia has the potential to produce it
itself, and meat, a potential export product, cannot be sold abroad owing to,
inter alia, bad quality and contamination. Insufficient transportation and
storage infrastructure in Bolivia makes product exchange difficult and expen-
sive, and prevents regional specialization. The Government's export strategy
will have to give more attention to identifying potential markets and product
quality requirements. It is expected that the National Transportation plan,
which is currently being prepared, will identify priority areas for the
improvement of the transportation network to facilitate access to production
areas and markets.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The Government of Bolivia has requested an IDA credit to help
finance a rural development project in the Altiplano provinces of Omasuyos
and Los Andes. The project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited
Bolivia in October/November 1978. A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report
Omasuyos-Los Andes Rural Development Project", dated May 24, 1979, is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet
is presented in Annex 3. Negotiations took place in Washington from May 14
to May 17, 1979. The Government of Bolivia was represented by Messrs. Alfonso
Criales, Cesar Carrasco, and Felix Fernandez; IFAD was represented by
Messrs. Ferdinand Stoces, and Guy van Melckebeke.



- 10 -
Background
32.       The Bank has been supporting rural development in Bolivia's
Altiplano for some time. The first operation, a Bank loan of US$9.5 million
for the Ingavi Rural Development Project in 1976, is benefiting about 4,000
small farm families through on-farm investments, incremental production
credits, and technical assistance in an area south of Lake Titicaca. In
addition, most of the 10,000 families in the project area benefit from
improved roads, health facilities, and drinking water and waste disposal
facilities. The second operation, a Bank and IDA credit of together US$18
million for the Ulla Ulla Rural Development project in 1978, focuses on
developing the llama, alpaca, and sheep agro-business complex as well as
handicraft and marketing developments in an area north of Lake Titicaca.
33.       Since the Ingavi Project was the first attempt in Bolivia to
coordinate rural development by cutting across institutional lines and
provide services on an integrated basics, initial progress was slow. The
project suffered mostly on the production side because of the unproven
viability of its irrigation component and the lack of timely availability of
necessary production inputs. However, more recently project implementation
has improved significantly after arrangements were made for strengthening of
the project administration and for greater flexibility in project emphasis
and approach. The Ulla Ulla project, which took into account the experiences
gained under Ingavi, is progressing satisfactorily. Both projects seem to
have a positive impact on the attitude of Altiplano farmers; local communities
have become more sensitive to progress and indicate strong desires to parti-
cipate in the development process.
Project Objectives
34.       The proposed project would continue previous efforts by providing
similar services to an area adjacent to Ingavi and Ulla Ulla. The project
aims at increasing incomes and living standards in two provinces of the
Altiplano by increasing productivity and production, and providing basic
infrastructure and technical assistance. In addition, the project is ex-
pected to facilitate the integration of subsistence farmers into the market
economy.
Project Description
35.       Productive Component:  Credit would be provided for on-farm
investment and working capital requirements in agriculture, livestock and
forestry production.  About 2,500 farmers, organized in farmer groups, are
expected to use funds for investments in livestock (cattle, sheep, and
alpaca), corrals, sheds, silos, wells, pumps, equipment and farm tools.
Tractors would be purchased by those farmer groups that could demonstrate
the need as well as the capability to operate and maintain a tractor effi-
ciently. Incremental working capital would be made available to about 6,000
farmers, participating in farmer groups, to purchase improved seeds, agricul-
tural chemicals, and to support productive activities such as fisheries.



- 11 -
About 600 farmers are expected to participate in the forestry program
which would provide fuel wood, poles, and construction wood.
36.       Infrastructure:  The project would improve and maintain about
50 kilometers of feeder roads to facilitate communications and the flow of
goods and services to and from the project area. Potable water supply and
waste disposal facilities would benefit about 6,000 families.
37.       Administration and Technical Support:  The project would make
provisions to cover administrative costs including salaries for the Project Unit
staff, overhead cost, building, housing, equipment and machinery, and vehicles.
In addition, provisions would be made for consultant services to provide
support for cheese and dairy production. A technical assistance delivery
system would be established to transfer simple, low cost technology to indi-
vidual farmers and farmer groups. To strengthen this system, the project
would establish a training center for project staff and farmers. A model-farm
would be set up to demonstrate improved and appropriate technology to project
farmers. The acclimatization facilities for cattle transfer from Bolivia's
lowlands to the Altiplano and the input supply system, which have been estab-
lished under the Ingavi Project, would be expanded to ensure timely availability
of improved dairy cattle and farm inputs.
Project Implementation
38.       Organization and Management:  The proposed project, together with
the ongoing Ingavi Project, would be executed by an expanded and strengthened
Ingavi Project Unit. The Government has issued a Project Decree and approved
the statutes of the Project Unit; both are satisfactory to IDA. In addition,
an assurance has been obtained that the Government would not modify decree and
statutes without IDA's concurrence (Section 6.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
39.       The Project Unit would consist of central administration and
independent Sub-Units for the technical implementation of the Ingavi and
Omasuyos-Los Andes projects. The central administration and the Ingavi
Sub-Unit would be located in Viacha, and the Omasuyos-Los Andes Sub-Unit
would be located in Huarina, a center of the project area. The central
administration would consist of a Project Director, an administrative unit,
a monitoring unit, and consultant services. The Project Unit's Board of
Directors would be composed of representatives of MACA, the Ministry of
Planning and Coordination (CONEPLAN), the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry
of Public Health, CORDEPAZ, BAB, the Project Director and Sub-Directors,
and representatives of project farmers. The representative of MACA would
be the chairman of the Board, and the representative of CORDEPAZ would be
the vice chairman. The Board would be primarily responsible for formulating
policy and project guidelines, and approving annual work programs and budgets.
40.       The Project Unit would be headed by a nationally recruited General
Manager with extensive experience in administration and agriculture. He would
be responsible for day-to-day activities and would coordinate the hiring of



- 12 -
staff, preparation of annual work plans and budgets, participation of public
agencies in the project work and procurement of goods. The Government has
appointed a General Manager with qualification and experience acceptable to
IDA; replacements of the Project Director would be made in agreement with IDA.
The General Manager would be supported by a small core of highly qualified
staff and foreign consultants already hired under the Ingavi project. In
addition, an internationally recruited specialist in cheese and dairy
production would be employed by July 1, 1980 for twelve months on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 4.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
41.       The General Manager would be supported by Sub-Unit Managers with
qualifications acceptable to IDA. The Omasuyos-Los Andes Sub-Unit would be
staffed by one economist-statistician, one senior agriculturist, 18 extension-
ists, five agriculture and livestock specialists, five credit personnel, and
administrative and support personnel. The extension service would be supported
by "promotores" as is done under the Ingavi Project. Assurances have been
obtained that replacements of the Sub-Unit Managers would be made in agreement
with IDA, and that the Government would provide sufficient incentives so that
the Project Unit could attract and retain highly qualified staff. Farmers
would participate in project planning and implementation through a coordinating
committee comprising representatives of project staff and beneficiaries
(Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
42.       Since inputs from commercial sources are scarce, the Project
Unit would, initially, assure timely availability and quality of inputs to
project farmers. To this effect, assurances would be sought that the Project
Unit establish a procurement committee, that it maintains the revolving fund
for input supply, established under the Ingavi project, and that the Govern-
ment increase the fund from US$120,000 to US$200,000. The Project Unit would
not be subject to import restrictions, and import duties on goods imported by
the Project Unit would be paid directly by the Government or reimbursed to the
Project Unit. During project implementation, farmers in the project area
would establish their own input supply system. The Project Unit would use
its best efforts to establish, and provide technical assistance to a Central
Cooperative, and would submit to IDA by December 1, 1982 a proposal outlining
the terms and conditions, including a timetable, under which the Project Unit's
input supply program would be transferred to the Central Cooperative (Section
4.06 of the Development Credit Agreement). The Project Unit would maintain
separate accounts for the input supply system and the cattle acclimatization
center, and it would establish competitive cattle prices at levels sufficient
to recover its investments and operation cost (Sections 5.01 and 5.03 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       The Project Unit would enter into contractual agreements with the
Servicio Nacional de Caminos (SNC), and the Centro de Desarollo Forestal
(CDF) to implement the road and forestry components. The signing of an
agreement with the concerned entities, satisfactory to IDA would be a
condition of disbursement for the component involved (Section 4.02 and
Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, assur-
ances have been obtained that the Government would cause SNC to (a) prepare by



- 13 -
April 1, 1980, a study, including a timetable, satisfactory to IDA, for the
improvement of feeder roads in the project area utilizing equipment from the
Ingavi project; (b) improve by December 31, 1980, the sections of the road
between Achacachi and Ancoraimes to ensure access throughout the rainy
season; and (c) maintain the project roads during and after the project
period (Sections 4.07 and 5.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
INFOL, INBOPIA, and the National Manager Service (FOMO) would promote farmer
participation in handicraft activities; contractual agreements between the
Project Unit and these institutions would have to be executed by April 1,
1980 (Section 4.08 of the Development Credit Agreement).
44.       BAB would be responsible for disbursement and collection of sub-
loans. It is not expected that BAB's present financial problems would have
any bearing on the participation under the project since it acts only as
financial agent for the Government. It would be a condition of effectiveness
that, satisfactory to IDA, (a) an agreement between the Central Bank and BAB,
and an agreement between the Project Unit and BAB, have been signed; and (b)
the Government has established a fund, amounting to US$100,000 equivalent in
BAB, to execute the credit program, set rules and guidelines for its opera-
tion and has instructed the Central Bank to replenish the fund as necessary.
BAB would open a regional office in Huarina where the Omasuyos-Los Andes
Sub-Unit office would be located, and provide it with the necessary staff,
furniture and equipment. Assurances to this effect have been obtained
(Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). To avoid duplica-
tion, the Government would coordinate the provision of credit in the project
area so as to ensure that all credit would be provided by means of the project
(Section 4.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       Project Cost and Financing:  The total project costs including price
contingencies, expressed in mid 1979 prices are estimated at US$9.3 million of
which US$2.5 million, or 26%, represent foreign exchange costs net of import
duties and taxes. The project costs are summarized in the following table:
Investment Category         Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign Exchange
------- US$ million -----    ------ % -------
1.  Productive Investment       3.10       1.17       4.27            27
2.  Infrastructure               0.45      0.24       0.69            35
3. Administrative &
Technical Support         2.14       0.55       2.69            20
4.  Total Base Line Costs        5.69      1.96       7.65
5.  Contingencies                1.18      0.50       1.68
Total Project Cost   6.87        2.46      9.33            26
46.       The proposed IDA credit of US$3.0 million would finance 32% of
total project cost, the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) would provide US$4.0 million (43% of total project cost), the Govern-
ment would provide US$2.2 million (24% of total project cost), and the



- 14 -
beneficiaries would provide US$0.1 million (1% of total project cost). The
IDA credit and the IFAD funds would cover 100% of the foreign exchange cost
(US$2.5 million), and 65% (US$4.5 million) of local cost. The Government
would be the borrower and bear the foreign exchange risk. The IFAD loan
would be on intermediate terms, with an interest rate of 4% annually, and
maturity period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. IDA would finance
infrastructure, administration and technical support, and a part of the
forestry program; IFAD would finance the credit program and the remaining
part of the forestry program. The legal documents would contain a cross
default and a cross effectiveness clause (Section 6.01, 6.02 and 7.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).  The appointment of IDA by IFAD as
cooperating institution would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       Flow of Funds and Subloan Terms:  Credit proceeds for components
other than subloans would be channeled through the Central Bank to the
Project Unit and participating agencies; credit proceeds for subloans would
be channeled through the Central Bank and BAB to beneficiaries on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. BAB would receive a service charge of 3% on
subloans. Subloans would be made to farmer groups, all members of the group
would be responsible for repayments. Subloan maturities for on-farm invest-
ments would not exceed 6 years, with grace periods of up to 2 years.
Subloan maturities for incremental production credit would not exceed 15
months, with no grace period. Subloan terms for forestry would be determined
on a case-by-case basis. The interest rate on the subloans would be 12%,
the same as that charged to small farmers elsewhere in Bolivia. The
interest rate is slightly negative in real terms, given the expected rate of
inflation during the disbursement period. This is considered acceptable
because the benefiting farmers are among the poorest in Bolivia; most of
them would receive credit for the first time. Moreover, the project will be
supervised closely enough to make diversion of funds unlikely.
48.       Financial Analysis:  The project would increase the incomes of
participating farmers significantly. The farm models indicate that the
financial rate of return for the farmers' own capital would exceed 100%. The
high financial rate of return is explained by the small investment per family,
its short gestation period and rapid production increases. Even with these
substantial increases, farmers' average per capita income at full proXject
development would remain significantly below the national average.
49.       Marketing:  Farmers in the Altiplano sell only a small portion of
their agricultural output to the local markets. It is expected that the
production increases under the project would raise farmers' marketable surplus
substantially. The marketing prospects for the various products produced
under the project are satisfactory. Future potato consumption in the La Paz
area is expected to increase considerably. The produced milk is expected to be
sold on the La Paz market, characterized by large unsatisfied demand for fresh
milk, and to the PIL plant, provided the government raises its purchasing
price. The incremental quinoa production would be small and, in view of the
present supply shortage, should be sold without difficulty. Livestock would
be sold through local commercial channels, and alpaca fiber would be sold
to INFOL, which is in charge of promotion of alpaca and commercialization
of alpaca products and has purchasing centers throughout the Altiplano.



- 15 -
50.       Procurement:  Contracts for the purchase of equipment and vehicles
would total US$718,550, excluding contingencies. Individual contracts in
excess of US$100,000 equivalent would be procured through international
competitive bidding according to IDA procedures. Purchases of less than
US$100,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding according to
local procedures, which would be satisfactory to IDA. Procurement of farm
inputs and cattle would be carried out by farmers through normal commercial
channels. Since road works (US$363,000, excluding contingencies) are spread
out within the project area and include mainly improvement of existing tracks,
they would be undertaken by SNC on force account. Civil works (US$733,300,
excluding contingencies) for project facilities would be carried out through
local competitive bidding procedures which would be acceptable to IDA. Assur-
ances have been obtained on the above (Schedule 3 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
51.       Disbursement:  IDA would disburse over a period of 4 1/2 years
100% of foreign expenditures and 64% of local expenditures for the purchase
of equipment and vehicles (excluding tractors) for the Project Unit and
CDF; 100% of expenditures for consultant services for the Project Unit;
64% of local expenditures for civil works for roads, water supply and waste
disposal facilities, and operating costs for the Project Unit. For the
forestry component, IDA and IFAD would disburse, at a ratio of 3 to 1, 100% of
foreign expenditures, 80% of local expenditures, and 80% of subloans. Disburse-
ment would be supported by normal documentation except those for works carried
out through force account which would be made against a certified statement of
expenses, the documentation for which would be made available for inspection
by IDA during project supervision.
Justification, Benefits, and Risks
52.       The proposed project would make an important contribution to
improve the standards of living in the Altiplano. Together with Ingavi and
Ulla Ulla, it would cover the whole Altiplano Norte. It is expected that the
project design, which has been based on low investment costs per beneficiary,
would demonstrate suitable ways of successfully approaching problems of
Bolivia's rural poor. The project's economic viability, demonstrated by an
ERR of 36%, proves that the Altiplano has production potential that can be
developed.
53.       The project would benefit some 6,000 families who, until now, have
received only limited assistance for economic and social advancement. Some
85% of the project area's rural population belong to the poverty target
group, defined as the poorest 40% of the country's population. Increased
production under the project would help raise per capita incomes, currently
below US$100, to almost US$200, and it would help integrate project benefi-
ciaries, who are mostly subsistence farmers, into Bolivia's market economy.
Promoting more intensive farm cultivation methods is expected to decrease
current underemployment. At the same time, the Government program for
reforestation and road maintenance would create temporary jobs for unskilled
workers.



- 16 -
54.       The value of incremental project production has been estimated
at US$7 million. Incremental project output, consisting mainly of marketable
food crops, would improve product supply in La Paz. Increased milk supply to
the PIL plant in La Paz, which is operating below its capacity using imported
powder milk, would assist in developing a dairy processing industry. Water
supply and waste disposal facilities, which would be provided under the
project, would improve the health situation of participating families. The
project's institution building aspect would be particularly important. The
former Ingavi Project Unit would be expanded and could serve as a central
development agency for the implementation of future projects. The creation
of a central cooperative that would take over some of the Project Unit's
functions, would establish a institutional model which could be successfully
replicated in other regions of the country.
55.       Since project composition and design is based on experiences ob-
tained under the two previous Bank operations in the Altiplano, the project
is considered to be of no more than average risk. The main potential problem
would lie in the difficulty of attracting and retaining a sufficient number
of qualified staff for the project unit. Failure to obtain the envisaged
number of extensionists would negatively affect the farmer's response to
technology changes and the yields they would achieve. Because of this
potential problem, project staffing has been kept at a minimum, and salaries
would be high enough to attract and retain qualified staff. Sensitivity
tests indicate that the rate of return remains high under various alternative
assumptions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft development credit agreement between the Republic of
Bolivia and the International Development Association, and the report of
the committee provided for in Article 3, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreements are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the proposed development credit are listed
in Section 3 of Annex 3. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be
that, under the credit program, (i) an agreement between the Central Bank and
BAB and an operational agreement between the Project Unit and BAB, satisfactory
to IDA, have been signed; (ii) that the Government had established a credit
revolving fund in BAB, amounting to US$100,000, for its operation;  and
(iii) that the Government has instructed the Central Bank to replenish the
credit fund, established in BAB, as necessary. In addition, all conditions
necessary for the effectiveness of the IFAD loan would have to be fulfilled
and IFAD would have to appoint IDA as cooperating institution. It would be an
additional condition of disbursement that, under the forestry program, an
operational arrangement between the Project Unit and CDF, satisfactory to IDA,
had been signed; under the road program, that an operational agreement between
the Project Unit and CNC, satisfactory to IDA, had been signed, and, with
respect to subloans for production capital, that the revolving fund, to be
replenished with repayments from these subloans, is depleted.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the articles of agreement of Institutional Development Association.
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
June 4, 1979



ANNEX I
- 18 -                                                Page 1
TABLE 3A
BOLIVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
90LIVIA                                                 k
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1098.6                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     304.8                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION Le   GROUP 1d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  180.0        290.0     540.0           1066.7      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEE CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      147.0       229.0     303.0            911.1       251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          3.8         4.9       5.9  f.
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.2         32.3       34.0             57.9       24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         3.0         4.0        5.4            25.6        42.7        50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      13.0        16.0       19.0            77.6        95.0        93.3
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.4        41.9      41.6             42.0        44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.0        54.6      54.9             52.2        52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.6         3.5        3.5             3.7         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4         2.6        2.7             2.7         2.7         2.5
URBAN                               3.6         4.2        4.1             4.3         8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.6        44.4       44.0             35.8       42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.5        19.7       19.1              9.1       12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         2.8        2.8              2.6        3.2         2.5
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..        7.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..            15.1        14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              80.9       100.0      110.8           102.1       104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    69.0        76.0       77.0           103.9        99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0        46.0       48.5            60.3        56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.3 /R     14.0       14.4            26.7        17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES i-4) MORTALITY RATE      11.0          7.4        ..              8.7        7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT EIRTH (YEARS)    42.3         45.3       46.8            62.6        53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       154.0         ..            56.9        82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        33.0       34.0            60.7        31.1        56.8
URBAN                                ..        92.0       81.0            78.0        68.5        79.0
RURAL                                ..         2.0        6.0            34.9        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DiSPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        12.0         ..            61.1        37.5        30.9
URBAN                                ..        25.0         ..            80.3        69.5        45.4
RURAL                                ..         4.0        9.0            25.4        25.4         16.1
POPULATION PFR PHYSICIAN           3900.0      2300.0    2120.0            1899.3     9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      2730.0    2370.0            1220.1     2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             580.0       510.0         ..           422.3       786.5       493.9
URBAN                                ..       200.0         ..           258.2       278.4       229.6
RURAL                                ..      2400.0         ..          2281.6      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..             25.6       19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              5.2         ..          5.2
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          5.0
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..               ..         ..          5.4
AVERAGE NlTIBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              2.0         ..          2.0
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..              2.1        2.3          1.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..              2.7         ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              22.0 /b        ..        ..             51.2       28.3         64.1
URBAN                              76.0 7h        ..        ..             77.3         ..         67.8
RURAL                               8.0  h        ..        ..             12.8       10.3         34.1



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                      Page 2
TABLE 3A
BOLIVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BOLIVIA                                                /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SANE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 64.0         68.0      74.0           103.5       75.B         99.8
FEMALE               50.0        56.0       65.0           102.9       67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                12.0         21.0        ..            37.2       17.7         33.8
FEMALE               10.0        18.0        ..             37.9       12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 14.0         11.0      10.0            14.7         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           27.0         24.0      23.0            32.8       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                         13.0         17.0        ..            17.8       23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       38.8         40.0        ..            74.9        63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0          4.0       2.0            26.9        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIoN                        73.0           ..      78.0           173.5       71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..         ..            69.4        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 27.0         42.0      25.0            72.8        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..         ..             4.3         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2000.0 L4  2300.0    2500.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  18.9 14      19.5      20.4            21.4       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             67.0         65.0      65.0            37.8       54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.1        21.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.1         33.2      33.0            30.8       37.8         33.8
MALE                                56.0         53.7      52.7            47.2        50.3        48.1
FEMALE                              12.7         12.9      13.4            13.2       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.0       1.0             1.7         1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        36.0        ..            28.9        19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         59.0        ..            57.7       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         4.0        ..             3.2         5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         13.0        ..            10.7        15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           251.9       155.9       191.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      134.0           200.6       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      105.0           403.1      143.7        319.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       75.0           258.0       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       20.0            24.8        22.9        19.8
RURAL                                ..         ..       85.0            65.2        36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d   Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); If Provisional 1976 population census gives estimate
of 4.647 million; LI Av. 1961-65; /h 1963; /i 1965.
September. 1978



- 20 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes   ;Ithough the data are drawn from sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable.  it should also be noted that they may not be fnter-
nationally comparable botause of the Ick of rtandardized definitions and concepts used by different countries in collectiog the data   The dat are. nonetheless,
useful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterios certste major differeoces between co-ntries.
The adjiusted gronp averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the ectreme values of the indicator end the meet
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data sod is not unifrn.  Due to lack of dta,
grotp averuges for Capital Dorplus Oil fEporters and indicators of access to water and escreta disposal, housing, inc-e distribution and poverty are
simple population-oeighted genatrnir  erans without the  -ocl,,sion of eutreos valus
LAND ARiA (thousand  q. kho)                                                              PPooiatio  per hospital bed - total, urban  and rural - Papulatios (total,
Total - Total uuriace area comprisiug land urea and inland watere.                         urbas, and rural) divided by their respective snkber of hospital beds
Agricsltural - Host retest estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  uvuiiable in public and private general snd specislieed hnspttaL and re-
or permaro-tly for crops, paitures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilittion centers.  Hospitals urn establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at toast one physiclao.   Eatabliuhents providing principally cus1tndsi
cue rac:nortnicoluded. Rural hospitals, howeve, include health and ma,di-
GN oPER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita esticstes at current market prices,                    cal centers cot perma ently staffed by a physician (but by a medical a-
oalculuted by sarn conversion nenbod us World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sietant, nurse,  idwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation ead
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               prcvide a liited range of medical facilities.
Admissions Sen hospital bed -Total number of admissions to or disoherges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of cocmercial esnrgy                     from hospitals divided by the number  of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogrmas of coal equivalent per capita.                    HODSING
Average site of household (Persons per leasehold) - total, urban, sod rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL SIATISTICS                                                             A bousehold consistn of a group of individuals who share living quartere
Total population, mid-year (=illions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main neals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                            the houaehold for statistical purposes.    Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (pertent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
Lion; different defiultioss of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons por room - total.  urban.  nd rural - Average nu
of data aong countries.                                                                  her of persons per coos it *ll, urban, asd rural occupied co.enetiomal
Population density                                                                         dwellinge, respectively.  Dwellings exlude mou-permanent st-u tuesa sd
Per  anq  ho. - Hid-year population per square kilometer (l00 hectares)                   unoccupied pants.
of  total area.                                                                        Access tn electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. ek. agriculture lend - Computed as above for agnioultoral iand                    Conventional dwellings with slectricity in living qu-rtene as peree.tage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwelings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Childrsn (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDIUCATIOn
year pcpula,iom.                                                                     Adl..t.d enrollment rutios
Population growth rate (percent) - total,  nd urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollamnt of  Lll ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the pcinuey level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted fo
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thausand of                       different lengths of prtimry  dduostiom; fon countries with univereal edu-
mid-year populuticn; ten-year arithmetic  svetages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                      above the official school age.
Crade death rate  (per thoussnd) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 197i                    tion requires at least four years of approved pria ry instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 f-r most recent estimate.                           videe general v-catloaal, or teacher training instructions for pupile
Groas reproduction rate - Average number of d ughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; corneepondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if sh  esperiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility  rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrcll=ent toercent of secondary) - Vocational institutions iD-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clod  technical indestrisl, ar other programa which apecate indepandently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual naber of                          or as departments of secondary institutiona.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of nati.n.l family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total students enrolled im
planning progra.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachere in the corre-
Family pl.nniu - usera  (persent of maried woman) - Per-ntage of                           spending levels
mrried women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rste (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and vrite)  a
devicens o all married women in sase age group,                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NDTRITITN                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Inde  number of per                   Passenger cars iper thovsand population) - Psasenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual  production of all fond cors_odities.                                    seating less than eight persons; encludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capitr  supPly of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available is country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of reosivers for radio
per day.  Available aupplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thu..s.d of population; excludee unlicensed
euports, and changes in stock.   Net supplies seclude  nimal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration nf radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distributien.  Re-                   effect; data for recent yearn may not be comparable since mast countries
quire=encs were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mO utcioity and health considering envirounental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers far broadcset to genert
weighte, age end sen distriburions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                       tries snd in years when registration of TV aets was in effect.
Per capita supply of proteis (eras per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circalation iper thousnd population) - Shows the average nircula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tios of "daily general interest newspaper".  defiued as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.   It is coneidered to
a sinimur allowance  0f 6i gnaom  of total protein per day snd 20 grema                  be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of unimal  and pulse protein, of  bhich 10 grams should be animal protein.            Cinema annual  attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
Th .ee standerds er  lower thou those of 75 grasm  of total protsin and                  sold during she year, inoludins udnisions to driAo-in  inemas ed mobil
23 gra=s of animal protein an an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita pnocein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of fond               EKPLOYMENT
dicived iro  aimals  nud pulsess in gram  per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Economically uctice per.n..   including armed
Child ( fgos 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand)   Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed but sncludinog hoosewtives, etc. Dlu firi-
and in ago group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tioun  in various countrien are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in faming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectanoy at birth (years) -         Average number of years of life                 as percentage of  total labor force.
reneiniog at birth; usually five-year avorages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infat mortality rate (pee thouseod) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male. and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of tieir respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of Population) - totsl, urban, and rural -                   These ore  IO's adjusted portitipatioc rates reflecting age-.ee
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     structure of the popnlation, and lung tine trend.
safn water supply (includen treated surface waters or untreated but                   Ecoso=ic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and oven to
ocotntinued wtoer such as that from protected bro.holos, springe,                        thn labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and o.nitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In or urban area a public fountain or standpost located nOt more                    INC0OdE DISTRIBDTION
than 200  ot.eru from a house may be considered as being within reu-                  Percentage of private inco=e (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
.sonbleaccess of that house.  In rural areas  reasons. able   cess would                 percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 perceot, and pooreur 40 pernert
itply that the housewif. or members of tho household do not have to                      of houueholds.
upend a disproportionate part of the day in fetnhiug the faily's
water neds.                                                                          POVERTI TARGET GROUPS
Access toaxcruta disposal foernent of population) - total, urban, and                   cannoted abeoiute poverty inucoe level (USS Per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Narber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excneta                       Absolute poverty inco=e level Dn that income level below which a minil
disposal as porrcntages of their respective popuattions.   Ecreto                        nutritionally adequate diet plus .s.ontial non-food requirenents is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with er without                        uffordablr
treatmeuL, of hbaan ourneta and vaste-water by water-borne nysteni Estimated relatioe poverty incoma leyel (OS) per capita) - urban and rural -
or thi  use of pit privieo and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty inuone level is that income level less than one-third
Ppotion per yhysician - Population dividod by number of par-ticing                  per capita porsonal income of the cosutry.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
prouctcing mole and fe=ale graduate nmrses, practical nurses, and                        "relation poor" whirhener is groater
aissitant-urues.
Econoic and Social lats Division
Econo=ic Analysis and Projections Department



- 21 -                                                   ANNEX 1
Page 4
BOLIVIA:   ALANCE 07F PA NTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND D01T
(trrent US dollars million.)
Actual                                      Pr-lioni..I                       lj td
1972         1973       1           1975        1976             197                     1970        198-
A. Sumarv of blance of Da.ventS
Imiports (lncl. 9e731                               -260.6       -509.2    -485.1       .667.3      -711.2            -627.9               -1,167.9       -2,066.3
op,orta (Incl. 97S1                                  224.7        297.2      67.6        527.8        637.1            721.1                 1 023. 3      1,919.9
teaurtee balance                                    *35.9        - 12.0      12.5       -139.5      - 74.1           .-16.8                -  144.5       -  146.9
Fctor intore                                        - 21.8       - 22.9     - 37.2      - 31.4      - 41.2            - 92.4               .  146.6S         264.0
et interast payments                            (- 13.4)      (  118.1(0)    -1.6)   1- .1       (  37          .1)                           35.0         247.81
Other factor service ince  <net)                 (-  8.4)    (-  4.9)  (- 17.6) 6     -  5.5)         4- 38.31                          (-   11.8)   /-   16.21
Current tr.ns..rs  os(t)                              13.4         15.4       13.7         13.1        14.0              15.0                   24.8          33.3
Current  ccount balance                               44.3       - 1-5       119.0      -137.8       -101.3           -184.2                .  266.5      -  377.6
Direct fotelac icvestmnnt             - ~~~~13.4       4.6       16.7        53.4        12.1              11.0                   13.3           17.8
Official capital srants                                8.U         10.0         9.0        10.35                                                20 1  1  3.4  20.0
Public 962T loans
Dinb ranmentn                                      122.5         37.0      108.0       150.4       292.2             427.5                  446.2          685.9
Oeraymnnurst7ent-                                 - 28.4       - 30 3       50 7      -56.6       -29.7               83.5               -  173 1       -  286.6
lat diehorannets                                      94.1          6.7       37.3         93.8       222.5            344.0                   273.1         399.3
Other 1lng-term lo-nO
Dinb_raam nts                                       17.7         24.0       14.2        16.4         25.0             25.0                    29.0          33.0
Ospepnents                                        -  2.6       -  7.6    - 15.1       - 18.2      . 23.0            - 24.2                  - 27.0      -   31.0
Not diaburnenenan                                     15.1         16.4    -  0.9       .  1.8          2.0               1.3                    2.0            2.0
Capital traneactiona n.e.i.                         - 40.9       - 32.1     - 89.6      - 42.5      . 74.0            -163.4                  - 18 6      -   24.8
ChanSe in net raserren                              - a1.6         13.9    -111.5         44.4      . 61.3            -  8.4                  - 23.6      -   36.7
Cranta and loana coefismants
Total M6LT Io.n.                                     179.9         78.9      172.4       397.5       461.0             587.9                   509.1         747.5
1BRD                                                   -             -         -          32.0        68.0              92.0                    80.0          89.9
IDA                                                    8.0          6.0        6.2          7.5         -                -                      10.0           -
Other mitilateral                                     27.0         11.2        35.0       104.6        80.4              15.3                   95.0          95.0
Cover., eant                                          71.7         34.1       60.8        109.3        43.8             177.2                   55.0          61.3
Ouppliar-                                             40.1         16.6       13.8        4.4.2        464.3            55.5                    30.0          75.7
Pin.npioi ier titctlong                               23.1          9.9       56.0        89.3       222.5             225.7                   199.1         405.6
other                                                 10.0          1.1        0.6         10.6         -                22.2                   20.0          20.0
C. !--draodum ite-o
Grunt  eItent of total co_it,nnnto (7)                32.2         36.5       39.7         19.0        19.2              13.9
A-rarg  intnrnat (74                                   4.9          4.9         5.6         6.8         6.9               7.2
Average natority (y.orn)                              19.2         22.0       25.6         17.6        15.0              12.4
Actual debt outstanding                    Public naternal                                                                              Pro-iional
on Dec. 31, 1977                           debt and debt entijn                                       1974         1975        1976          1977
D. Eto-rnci debt                                         Dioburend onIy    Porecnt
IBR1                                                        42.1              3.1                A. Olediom- cud lone-ter  debt (dinb.r.ad onto)
IDA                                                         54.8              4.1
Othor -ltiloteral                                           94.7              7.0                   Tot-l debt outst-nding (DOD end of peniod)             691.b         778.0    1,003.8         1,347.8
Ocrerceecto                                                504.7             37.4                   ItlnudLg undiabuta-d                                  809.4      1,206.0     1.3SS.9         2,089.8
Suppliorn                                                   89.9              6.7                   Public debt service                                     68.0         80.2        104.6          135.6
Pi-oncil in-titut.ons                                     438.8             32.6                      Interest                                             17.3         23.5         34.8           51.6
Bocda                                                       69.8              5.2
Public dabt not                                             53.0              3.9                8. Debt b-rden
Total public M63S debt                                   1,347.8            100.0
Debt service ratIo                                     10.8          15.2        16.4            18.8
E. Debt protile                                                                                         Debt carrion ratio  /I                                  13.6         16.2        17.1            24.1
Debt ser-ica:ODP                                        3.1           3.2         3.5             3.8
Total debt service 1978-80/
totl DOD end of 1977                                     60.6                                 C. Tera
Intereat on DOD/OOD                                     2.5           3.0         3.5             3.8
D.  -epedanto  -ting  for M8LT debt
Crose dlabornne. nt/icports (Lcl. of-                  22.3          22.5        41.1            51.6
Bet transfer/laporta  (intl. nfs                         7.8         10.2        26.1            35.0
Net transfer(/gros diabarnemant                        34.9          45.1        63.4           67.3
E. E.posurr
86RD DOD/total DOD                                      3.0           2.7         3.1             3.1
Bank group dinb./total BOD                              8.9           9.0         8.4             7.2
1BHO debt service/total debt .erv-J.                    5.0           2.0         3.6             2.9
B.nk Sroup debt .ervicn/total debt o-ryica              5.4           2.6         4.2             3.4
/1  Incvding vet ditrct i-veetnant incame.



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
BOLIVIA:  80030CaC DEKWLPINF DATA
(Ase.- Ln Us9 million)
Acta.-oiIoo                                   Protectd                     1970-      1974-    1977-    1980-
otlooal ACco-t                                     1974 -        1975          1976          1977          1980          1985              1974       1977     1980      1955              1974        1977       1980        1985
Cenc...t 1977 Price. ic Million 05                                                 Grwh Care                                    A. Pecn    f 057
G-oce do-eti  product                             3 ,251l       3,202         3,412         3,564         4,129         5,347                6.3       5.2       5.0      5.3              99.7       100.0      101~.2      t100.1
Gales fre  torm  of trade (9+  9                                 -139          - 73              0         - 48        -    4                -         -         -                          U .3        0.0      - 1.2       - 0.1
loose. de-etic Inc                                3,760         3,063         3.339         3,564         4,081         5.343                7.2       71.2     4.6       0.1             100.0       100.0o     100.7       100.7
Imports (tool. nfl)  ~ ~~~~~~~~~_576                 702           740           928           937         1,213                7.6      12.9      4.7       5.3              18.8        03.2       23.0        22.7
oos(o,of:), (le...rt capaity)               7445         5036           663         -721          -821        4.,127               14.9    -1.0         4.4      6.5              44.3        20.2        20.1      '21.1      -
losoarce gop                          ~~~~~          ~~~~         ~~~~-167  146  184  107      116            86                -         -         -        -               -5.5          3.0         2.9        1.4
Coouptioe enpe-ditores.                           0.311         2,343         2,879         2,971         3,442         4,421                5.1       0.7       5.0      5.1              75.3        83.4       04.3        92.7
In--t-n  eorsdltur-  (hod. stoks                    502           666            644          700           735         1,008               0.7        4.3      2 .6      6.0              19.0        19.6        19.5       18.9
-oeoceioge                                     749           520           460           093           639           922              16.0     -7.0        2.5       7 .6             24.5        16.6       15.7        17.3
-sine   aLoge                                  719           489           433           516           530           779              18.9     410.5       1.4      7.,7              73.5        14.5       13.2        14.6     o
tt-rh-ndl- Trade
C.nomr   -rble 9oode                               52.7          67.5          62,7          64.9          90.6         159.2            23.7        7.2     11.8      11.4              12.2         9.9         I.,        8.6
C    -sme  ~-d,-ca.R0 gds                     37 .7         60.3          560           61.8         113.0         208.4            40.3       17.9    22.4      13.01               8.6        8.9        10.0        11.2
P4005                                 ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~~    ~~4.0  7.0  .  6.2  10 .0  01.9     38.1      1.7       17 .3    17.0                0.9        0.9         0.0         1.2
Re-  mateiall.    goods                           015.6         192.0         189.7         213.1         288.8        479.4             18.4       22.6     10.7     10.7               26.9       292         27.7        25.9
Coitel god                                        177.2         223.7         235.          067.          377.8         699.2            2:7.9      14.7     12.2     13.1               41.2       36.6        36.2        3 7 .7
Other coode                           ~~~~~         ~~~~~        ~~~~42.0  52.2  67.4  17.   102.62        287.6             7.         0.0     11.4     1.                  00        1.           56         1.
T-tI eorhendioe ImPOrt. (.if)                     430.0         602.9         637.6         750.9       1,542.3      1,955.7             22.6       19.3     12.6     12.0              100.0      100.0       100.0   .100.5
Ac   eret of Tocl bE-oo-
Prineo   prod-.t                                  361.9         274.3         3899          513.6         675.2      1,301.3             18.7      12.4       9. 5    14.0               61.6       7.2         73.         75.2
Fuels                                ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~       ~~~~~223.4  188.0  105.4  134.9  238.8     429.9           103.3    -10.7       21.1    12.4                38.4       20.8        26.2        24.9
c/ct Crud. petroletmn                 (~~~~~~~~~63.0)  (63.4)    (64. 0)       (67.5)       (119.6)       (289.2)          (47.87      (2.3)  (21.0)  (17.6)               (10.7)     (10.4)      (13.1)      (15.57
T-to    -hrcoedios soP-te (fob)                   587.2         462.3         570.3         64.           91r.        1,731.4            31j6       3T4      12.2    13,h               100.0      1000        i3          T
Nstbheodics Credo tedic..
teport price loden                    0~~~     ~ ~~~~        ~~~6.  74.2  86.0  100.0        117.7         169.8
Import prIce loden                    8~~~     ~ ~~~~ ~~~5.1  95.6  96.7       100.0        124.6         10.4
Toe of crdo  oden                                 171 4          77.6          a8.9         100.0          94.5          99.6
Enpor  cu.L_n  lden  (1i-1. oft)                   90.2          71.3          98.9         100.0         129.0         053.0
Volne Addd6  Sco                                                An-oe  Dot at 1977 Price. nod E-chon8  Rate.                                 A-er.go Ae..ul Groth R-tee                            Ac Peroot of T.cl
194   1975          1976          1977          1980          1985
Agricultur                                        554           591           612           620           715           891               5.0        3.8      4.9      4.5               18.2        17.4       1'.3        14.7
Industr  and  i10ic0                              900           a73           960        1,010         1,162         1,504                7.7        3.9      4.8      5.3               29.5       28.3        28.2       78.1
Osnc                                            1.597         1.738         140           1.934         2.252         2.952               6.0        6.6      5.2       5.:6             52.3       54.3        54.5        55.2
Totl                                            3,051         3,202         3,412         3.564        4,129          5,347               6.3        5.3      5.0      5.3              130.0      130.0       100.0       100.7
PublIc Finace                                                      Perc-t of GDP                                                            Detil on.S Percen  of Coto
(Contro  G-rremot                                  1974          1975          1976          1977                                            46110 OSocor                                   Flre-Y..r PIco)
Curret recipto                                   13.1          13.1          13.5          12.                                             nnometProe                                          1970680
Curentenedi tuL                                  13.8          106            16            05                                               rOltr                                                9.6
POodgeterysc-ioge                                  2.3           25            1.9           2.4                                           KinIng cod hypdr...rbote                               23.4
blIc setrecoe9.3                                                 5. 5          7.2           6.2                                           lentyedpwr25.3
Public fiord capitol fornatioo  6.9          11.3          1~~~    ~ ~~~~~~~~3.4  10.3                                  Treo  or   :en   coIialos1.
Poblic  -erice.d ...i9    -ool   eite                 02,0
as   tocol current enp-ndlt-re             1974         1975          19 76         1977
Goode an   erie                                  15.2          19.0          27.4          19.3                                                                                        A. Percer  or  ote
W.,.  cd to_air                                  52.7          51.3          52. 0         52.0                                           Ftn-ocln                                             1977-980
Tra..ofer pny-Ott                                29.7          24.9          24.6           30PiAes   o 20.331~
Other                                             3.3           4.0            .            3.7                                           FoegIcre                                                 0.
TocI curet -opedil- tos                          oo.o         100.0         100.0         100.0                                           Publ10i eco                                            3970
100.0
Selected Indicato                                   0970-        1674-         1977-         1980-
1974         1977          1980          1985
bOOR                                   ~~~~~         ~~~~~        ~~~~~         ~~~2.64  3.60  3.63  3.50
Imprr releetlctoy                      ~~~~          ~~~~         ~~~~1.2  2.38  5.  1.
Averge  -nioa ...1 ring. rot                        19.0          180.          13.0~        14.40
fterginel not-iol  -aitgeot                           .42         - .34           .04           .20
aIa  Adedrm  ore
Lbor Foro  and Ototrt  P-n Rocker                      n Tho...aode 71             7u  Totol           Grwt.Rte           In.7 Do           ddre dPrc-    of-k  ece
150            97O17 97                    76         190-19 7        970         197I 6   ~   1970           1976
ugricultore                      1,307        ~~~~~~         ~~~~~        ~~~~1,459  64.0  58.0  19     349         -419         29.7        30.9
Ioduetrv nod nitiog                  ~~~~         ~~~ ~ ~~276  278  14.0      15.0            5.4        2,420        2,140        205.9       167.3
S-mma                                            _446           680          22.0          07.0           7  3        2.834       1U26         741.0        199.6
CocI                                            2.329         2,507         100.0         100.0           3.7         1,176        1,356       100.0        100.7



ANNEX 1
-23  -                                           Page  6
CONTRACTED PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY GUARANTEED EXTERNAL DEBT, 1969-1977
(US$ millions)
1969      1970      1971      1972      1973      1974       1975       1976        1977/1
International Organizations           39.1       6.9      26.8      35.0      17.2      41.2      144.1      148.4       107.3
CAF                                 -         -         0.1        2.0       1.2       -         38.1        6.7        1.7
TBRD                               23.3       -          -         -         -         -         32.0       68.0       92.0
IDA                                 7.4       1.4        6.8       8.0       6.0       6.2        7.5        -           -
IDB                                 8.5        5.5      19.9      25.0      10.0      35.0       66.5       73.7       13.6
Governments                           30.0      17.2      35.2      71.7      34.1      60.8      109.3       43.8       177.2
Argentina                            3.2      14.3       4.3       4.2       3.4       2.9        3.4        4.6        50.0
Czechoslovakia                      -         -          3.9       1.4       -         -          -          0.3         -
Germany F.R.                        1.7        1.4       -         -         -        28.6        -          5.2        21.7
United Kingdom                       1.4       -         -         6.8       -         -          1.0        -           -
USA                                22.7        1.5      25.3      40.0      26.5      28.8       26.9       26.3       75.5
USSR                                 -         -         -        15.9       -         -          0.5        5.2       16.6
Others                               1.0       -         1.7       3.4       4.2       0.5       77.5        2.2       13.4
Suppliers' credits                    11.5       1.6       3.9      40.1      16.6      13.8       44.2       46.3        55.5
Argentina                            -         -         1.6       5.1       5.9       1.6        1.7        0.3         1.9
Belgium                             -          -         -         -         5.8       0.1        -          -           -
Canada                              -          -         -         -         3.7       1.9        -          -          -
Denmark                             0.7       1.3        -         0.8       0.2       0.2        4.9        -          -
Germany F.R.                        3.9       0.3        -         -         -         -         13.6        2.8         1.3
Israel                                        -          -         -         -                    5.5        -           -
Italy                               2.1       -          -       26.6        -         -          -          -          -
Japan                               -         -          2.0       6.4       -         -         10.8       19.5       10.3
Spain                               3.3        -         -         -         -         -          -          -           -
USA                                 -          -         -         1.1       0.9       1.9        2.4        -         25.2
Others                              1.5        -         0.3       0.1       0.1       8.1        5.3       23.7       16.8
Private Banks                          1.3       -        23.3      23.1       9.9      56.0       89.3      222.5      225.7
Brazil                              -         -        12.0        7.9       4.7      13.5        -         13.7         7.7
USA                                 1.3       -        10.0      12.8        1.5      34.3       63.9      146.2      159.8
Others                               -         -         1.3       2.4       3.7       8.2       25.4       62.6        58.2
Other                                 14.1       4.1       0.1      10.0       0.4       0.6       10.6         -         22.2
Nationalization (US )                  -        78.6       -         -         0.7       -          -           -          -
Total /2                        96.2    108.4       89.3    179.9       78.9    172.4       397.5       461.0      587.9
/1  Provisional
/2 Net of adjustments and cancellations.
Source: Central Bank, IBRD Social and Economic Data Division.



ANNEX II
- 24-                       Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1979)
-------- US$ million ------
Loan or                                                      (Amount less cancellations)
Credit #   Year    Borrower             Purpose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                           23.3      44.6
261       1971    Bolivia         Livestock                           6.8         0.8
455       1974    Bolivia         Mining/Manufacturing                6.2         0.8
561       1975    Bolivia         Agriculture                         7.5         3.2
762       1978    Bolivia        Ulla Ulla Development                9.0        8.5
1121       1975    ENFE            Railways                 28.7                  0.1
1211       1976    Bolivia        Rural Development          9.5                   7.6
1238       1976    ENDE IV        Power                     25.0                   8.6
1290       1976    Bolivia         Mining/Manufacturing    10.0                    8.1
1324       1976    Bolivia        Water Supply and
Sewerage                5.21                 4.1
1331       1976    Bolivia         Small-Scale Mining       12.0                  11.0
1404       1977    Bolivia        Education and Voca-
tional Training        15.0                 12.9
1422       1977    ENFE            Third Railway            35.0                 21.8
1423       1977    AASANA         Aviation                  25.0                 23.3
1489       1977    Bolivia        Urban Development         17.0                 16.8
1510       1978    Bolivia        Ulla Ulla Development    9.0                    9.0
1587       1978    Bolivia        Highway Maintenance       25.0                 25.0
Total                                  239.7      74.1
of which has been repaid                 7.5       0.9
Total now outstanding                  232.2      73.2
Amount sold                 0.1                     -
of which has been repaid    -            0.1        -
Total now held by Bank                 232.2      73.2
161.6



ANNEX II
- 25 -                        Page 2-of 4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (As of March 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                              Amount in US$ million
Year           Obligator                Type of Business          Loan    Equity   Total
1973       Plasmar, S.A.            Cables and Plastic Product    0.3        0.1       0.4
1976        Banco Hipotecario
Nacional              Capital Market                           0.3       0.3
1976        Banco Industrial
S.A.                 Development Financing                     0.6       0.6
1978       Molino Andino S.R.L.  Plastic Products                    2.3      -        2.3
Total                            2.6     1.0       3.6
Repaid, cancelled or sold        1.2     0.4       1.6
Held by IFC                      1.4     0.6       2.0
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 261-BO - Third Livestock Development Project, US$6.8 million, June 23, 1971;
Effective Date: September 15, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The credit portion of the project has been almost fully disbursed;
about US$400,000 for technical assistance remains to be disbursed and the
credit should be disbursed by the Closing Date.
Credit 455-BO - Mining Credit Project, US$6.2 million, January 18, 1974;
Effective Date: June 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit should be
disbursed by the Closing Date.
Credit 561-BO - Agricultural Credit I, US$7.5 million, June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: December 15, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
Funds originally allocated for cattle are fully committed; credit
demand for grape production has been as anticipated, whereas demand for sheep,
annual crops and sugarcane has been less than anticipated. Demand for sheep
and annual crops funds is expected to accelerate; demand for sugarcane is not
expected to materialize.
Loan 1121-BO - Second Railway Project, US$28.7 million, June 5, 1975;
Effective Date: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project progress has been satisfactory with performance targets
either having been attained or exceeded. The loan is now almost fully
committed.



- 26 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1211-BO - Ingavi Rural Development Project, US$9.5 million, March 8, 1976;
Effective Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
There have been delays in the implementation of some components of
the project. Corrective measures have been taken, and project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1238-BO - Fourth ENDE Power Project, US$25 million, June 2, 1976;
Effective Date: August 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project has recently been delayed somewhat by poor performance
of local contractors and difficulties experienced in the transportation of a
major equipment component. Other components of the project have been proceed-
ing satisfactorily.
Loan 1290-BO - Banco Industrial Mining and Industrial Credit Project,
US$10 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
After initial delays, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1324-BO - Urban and Rural Communities Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$11.5 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: December 10, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Government has requested that the water supply and sewerage
investments for the cities of Sucre and Potosi be cancelled inasmuch as these
cities are not prepared to proceed without substantial Government subsidies.
In spite of initial delays, the other components of the project are now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1331-BO - Small-Scale Mining Development Project, US$12 million,
October 15, 1976; Effective Date: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Due to institutional managerial problems, the preparation of
subprojects was delayed about 15 months. To facilitate loan utilization
a number of measures were taken in mid 1978; the first disbursement under
the credit component was authorized November 1978.
Loan 1404-BO - Education and Vocational Training Project, US$15 million,
May 11, 1977; Effective Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project has experienced some delays but is proceeding without
significant problems.



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1422-BO - Third Railway Project, US$35 million, June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 29, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The progress of the project has been seriously impaired by the
recent heavy rains and extensive floodings. A reduction in the project scope
is expected as the railways have to divert funds to repair damages. The Bank
is discussing with the Government on how best to proceed.
Loan 1423-BO - Aviation Development Project; US$25 million, June 9, 1977;
Effective Date: September 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding slower than expected but without
significant problems.
Loan 1489-BO - Urban Development Project, US$9 million, November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: June 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project has been delayed nine months because of slow processing
of subsidiary loan agreements. Most components are now proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan 1510-BO and Credit 762-BO - Ulla Ulla Development Project, US$9 million
each, April 6, 1978; Effective Date: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1587-BO - Highway Maintenance Project, US$25 million, July 10, 1978;
Effective Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Initiation of the maintenance works delayed six months because
beneficiary has to concentrate on emergency measures to repair damages to
road system, caused by heavy rains and extensive flooding.



ANNEX III
Page I
BOLIVIA
OMASUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA PROJECT SHEET
Section I:
Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                      12 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:                Government, FAO/CP, Bank
(c)  First Presentation to Bank:                         March 1978
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:               July 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                     October 1978
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                        May 17, 1979
(g)  Planned Data of Effectiveness:                      October 1979
Section II:
Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:
1.   IDA has obtained assurances that:
(a)  the Government would not modify the decree and statutes
creating the Project Unit without IDA's concurrence
(para. 38); and that any replacements of the Project
Director and Sub-Directors would be made in agreement
with IDA (paras. 40 and 41);
(b)  a "Procurement Committee" within the Project Unit to be
responsible for acquiring goods and services under the
project would be established, the Project Unit would
continue to maintain the revolving fund for input supply
and the Government would increase this revolving fund to
US$200,000 to ensure sufficient and timely availability of
inputs for project farmers, and, for purposes of the
project, the Project Unit would not be subject to import
restrictions and import duties on goods imported by the
Project Unit would be paid directly by the Government or
reimbursed to the Project Unit (para. 42);



- 29 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2
(c)  the Government would provide the Project Unit staff with
adequate incentives to ensure that the Project Unit could
attract and retain highly qualified staff (para. 41);
(d) the specialist in cheese and dairy production to be
contracted by the Project Unit, would be employed by July
1, 1980 under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(para. 40);
(e) the Project Unit would use its best efforts to establish,
and provide technical assistance to, a Central Cooperative,
and would submit to IDA by December 1, 1982 a proposal for
the transfer of the input supply system to the Central
Cooperative; maintain separate accounts for the input supply
system and the acclimatization center and establish
cattle prices at sufficient levels to recover its investment
and operating costs (para. 42); and establish a Coordinating
Committee in the Project area, consisting of project staff and
representatives of project beneficiaries, to ensure direct
farmer participation in the execution and planning of the
project (para. 41);
(f) the Government would cause SNC to (i) prepare by April 1,
1980, a study, including a timetable, satisfactory to IDA,
for the improvement of about 50 km of feeder roads in the
project area utilizing the Ingavi Project road equipment;
(ii) improve by December 31, 1980 the sections of the
road between Achacachi and Ancoraimes to ensure accessi-
bility throughout the rainy season; and (iii) maintain
the project roads during and after the project period
(para. 43);
(g) the Government would cause BAB to establish an office with
adequate staff and necessary furniture and equipment in
Huarina (para. 44);
(h) the Government, by April 1, 1980 would cause the Project
Unit to enter into a contractral arrangement with INFOL,
INBOPIA and FOMO for the promotion and development of
handicraft activity in the project area (para. 43);
(i) the Government would coordinate the provision of credit in
the project area so as to ensure that all credit shall be
provided by means of the project (para. 44);
(j) the monitoring system to be established in accordance
with the IFAD Loan Agreement would be satisfactory to
IDA.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
2.   Condition of effectiveness would be that:
(a) Under the credit program (i) a subsidiary agreement
between the Central Bank and BAB and a contractual
agreement between the Project Unit and BAB, satisfactory
to IDA, had been signed; (ii) the Government had
established a credit revolving fund in BAB, amounting to
about US$100,000, for the execution of the credit program,
and set rules and guidelines for its operation (paras.
44 and 57), and (iii) the Government has instructed
the Central Bank to replenish the credit fund, established
in BAB, as necessary.
(b) All conditions necessary for the effectiveness of the IFAD
loan have been fulfilled.
3.   Conditions of disbursement would be that:
Under the forestry program a contractual agreement between the
Project Unit and CDF, satisfactory to IDA, had been signed;
under the road program, that a contractual agreement between
the Project Unit and SNC, satisfactory to IDA had been signed
(para. 43); and, with respect to subloans for production
capital, that the revolving fund, to be replenished with
repayments from these subloans, is depleted (para. 57).
4.   Condition of board presentation would be that:
The Sub-Directors for the Ingavi Project and also for the
Omasuyos-Los Andes Project with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA, had been appointed (para. 41).



IBRD- 14079
BOLIVIA
*; %\E/Ei l:\ '  0     \  \  '   ~   \ ZR                          OMASUYOS-LOS ANDES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
01  E~,  Z9l l .-  5. ,
~~~~~~~o MN Al   \                               \,.
A    Fg   E   iX  7  EIEthrl >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
*  A _tO\   -CMrERS
t>'.,,""'-..<   6,,'\ 12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h,
P  E  R  U          s     W    -     D         j          ~    +    5 s           <        <      X(9
/   -  L_~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~                ~     ~~      ~       ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  L a =        I V MIU AMr A '
\  t  O  F  v \ C       \             /          '   \ 'i%/ ' -'   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99,9
/  \  _  \  X  X  t  \S  / X i 4e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                        R
/  /                    ,                        \                   '   4       . A  t g i 0: P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4                                                     / /9 Nq\\ \91/\1> g oln  



