Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14981-LT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITEUANIA
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 9, 1995
Natural Resources Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October, 1995)
Currency Unit   =  Lithuanian Litas (LT)
1 Litas   =  US $0.25
US$1   =  LT4.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASlRES
I metric ton          =          1,000 kilograms = 2,205 pounds (Ibs)
I kilometer (km)      =          1,000 meters (m) = 3,281 feet (ft)
1 meter (m)           =          3.281 feet (ft)
1 centimeter (cm)     =          10 millimeters (mm)
1 millimeter (mm)     =          0.1 centimeter (cm)
1 cubic meter (m3)    =          35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
LITHtANIAN FISCAL.YEAR
January 1 - December 31



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD   =  Biological Oxygen Demand
CEM   =  Country Economic Memorandum, published in an expanded
form as: "Lithuania: The Transition to a Market Economy"
EAP  =  Environmental Action Program for Central and Eastern
Europe
EBRD   =  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA   =  Environmental Impact Assessment
EMC   =  Environmental Management Component
EU   =  European Union
EU (Life)  =  A financial instrument of the European Union to support
Environmental Policy
EU (Phare)  =  European Union Assistance Program for Central and Eastern
Europe
FSU   =  Former Soviet Union
GDP  =  Gross Domestic Product
GoLA   =  Government of Latvia
GoLI  =  Government of Lithuania
HELCOM   =  Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission (Helsinki
Commission)
IBRD   =  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank)
ICB   =  International Competitive Bidding
ICR   =  Implementation Completion Report
IDA   =  International Development Association
IMF  =  International Monetary Fund
IS  =  International Shopping
IVL   =  Swedish Environmental Research 'i.titute
JCP  =  Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action
Programme
LS  =  Local Shopping
MIS  =  Management Information System
MoEP  =  Ministry of Environmental Protection
MoF  =  Ministry of Finance
MS  =  Municipality of Siauliai
NEFCO   =  Nordic Environment Finance Corporation
PER   =  Public Expenditure Review
PIP  =  Project Implementation Plan
PITF  =  Programme Implementation Task Force
PIU   =  Project Implementation Unit
PSC   =  Project Steering Committee
REPO   =  Regional Environmental Protection Office
SCL   =  Single Currency Loan
Sida  =  Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SMEO   =  Siauliai Municipal Environment Office
SOE   =  Statement of Expenditure
SW   =  Siauliai Water
UN/ECE   =  United Nations Economic Council for Europe
USAID   =  United States Agency for International Development
USEPA   =  United States Environmental Protection Agency
VAT   =  Value Added Tax
WWIC   =  Water and Wastewater Improvement Component






REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   .........................................  i
I.   BACKGROUND
A.       Country Context .............................................  1
B.   Sectoral Ct -'text .            ............................................. 3
C.       The Project Area  ............................................  7
D.       Bank Environment Strategy in Lithuania, Past Experience and Rationale  ....                 ...  11
II.   THE PROJECT
A.       Project Origin and Formulation  ..........                 ........................  13
B.       Project Objectives . ..........................................  14
C.       Participation by Other Organizations in Project Activities .................  14
D.       Project Components and Description   ..............................  15
E.       Cost Estimates .............................................    19
F.       Project Financing Arrangements  .........                   ........................  20
G.       Procurement  ..............................................   22
H.       Disbursements  .............................................    24
I.   Accounts and Audits .......................................... 25
J.    Environmental Screening . ...................................... 26
K.       Water Resources Management Policy  ..............................  26
L.       International Waters Issues .           ....................................  27
M.       Participatory Approach  .          ......................................  27
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management ............................. 28
B.   Project Implementation Agencies ............................. 29
C.       Project Supervision ............................   29



IV.  MANAGEMENT ASPECTS OF "SIAULIAI WATER"
A.      Past Performance and Present Position  ...........................    31
B.      Tariff Levels and Revenues .................................                                    32
C.   Billing and Collection ...............                         -        A        .,. 33
D.      Accounting System  ................................   34
E.    Future Financial Performance ....................  34
F.      Tariff Affordability ...................................   37
G.      Financial Risks and Mitigation ............................                                     37
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Project Benefits .................................  39
B.      Project Risks and Sustainability .................................. 40
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.      Agreements Reached During Negotiations ..........................   42
B.      Condition for Board Presentation ...................                        ..  ..... 43
C.      Conditions of Effectiveness ...................................                                 43
D.    Recommendation ...................................   44
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1.         Project Cost Summary by Project Component ..v....................    V
Table 2.          Disbursement by Year ..v................................    V
Table 2.1        Project Cost Summary by Project Component ...................                                    19
Table 2.2         Summarized Financing Plan .............................                                        21
Table 2.3         Procurement Arrangements  ........................   23
Table 2.4         Disbursement by Year ..................................                                        25
Table 4.1    Siauliai Water - Income Statement (1992-1995) .. ... ..                                             32
Table 4.2        Siauliai Water - Financial Projections ........................                                 35
Table 4.3        Siauliai Water - Exptected Water and Wastewater Tariff Adjustments  ....                 .....  36
Table 5.1        Project Risks and Mitigation Measures .........................                                 40
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I          Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 2          Siauliai Water Action Plan
Appendix 1: Enterprise Strategic Plan - an outline
Appendix 2: Operational Restructuring and Asset Divestiture
Annex 3          Project Description



Annex 4      Terms of Reference
4A: Twinning Arrangement
4B: Project Steering Committee
4C: Project Implementation Unit
4D: Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
Annex 5      Table la      Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Table lb     Detailed Project Costs
Table 2      Financing Plan by Year
Table 3      Financing Plan by Financer
Table 4      Procurement Arrangements
Table 5      Implementation of Project Activities, Summary of Procurement Packages
Table 6      Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
Table 7      Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 6      Environmental Review of the WWIC
Annex 7      Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 8      Supervision Plan
Annex 9      Financial Analysis
Annex 10     Review of Affordability
MAP:         IBRD No. 27027
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission in June 1995. Members of the project
preparation team include: Ms. Sari Soderstr6m (Task Manager), Mr. Kari Homanen (Deputv Task
Manager), Mr. Stephen F. Lintner (Project Design Advisor/Principal Environmental Specialis.), Mr.
Mahesh Babu (Financial Analyst/Consultant), Ms. Camilla Brown (Operations Analyst), Mr. Magnus Enell
(Environmental Specialist/Consultant), Mr. Frederick Hasselback (Financial Specialist), Mr. Kalevi
Heinonen (livestock specialist/consultant); Mr. Inesis Kiskis (Regional Environmental Specialist), Mr.
Benoit Laplante (Environmental Economist), Mr. Martti Lariola (Organization and Management
Specialist/Consultant), Mr. Jocelyn Mason (Policy Analyst), and Ms. Snezana Mitrovic (Procurement
Specialist).  The following cofinancers participated in project preparation:  Mr. Lars Eklund
(Environmental Engineer, Sida), Ms. Carola Johansson (Environmental Engineer, Sida), and Ms. Bj0rg
Storesund (Senior Executive Officer, Norwegian Pollution Control Authority). Technical assistance for
project preparation was provided by the Government of Sweden. Peer reviewers were Mr. Janusz Kindler
(EMTAW) and Mr. Richard MacEwen (EC2AU). The Division Chief is Mr. Geoffrey Fox (EC4NR) and
the Department Director is Mr. Basil Kavalsky (EC4DR).






REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJICT
Loan and Project Summa
Borrower:              Republic of Lithuania.
Beneficiaries:         Siauliai Water (SW), Ministry of Environmnental Protection (MoEP).
IBRD Loan Amount:    US $6.20 million.
Financing Plan:                                               Local Foreign    IQTal
------- US $ million ---
IBRD, (loan)                           2.76   3.44      6.20
Government of Sweden (grant)            0.54   4.11     4.65
Min. of Environment, Finland (grant)    0.22   1.88     2.10
Min. of Environment, Norway (grant)    0.02    1.48     1.50
Other Grants (to be confirmed)          0.21    0.19    0.40
Government of Lithuania                 6.96   0.64     7.60
Municipality of Siauliai                0.40   0.00     0.40
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     1IL"i  1L27     2ZA
Terms:                 Standard amortization term, grace period and interest rate for fixed rate US
dollar single currency loans with an expected disbursement period of 3-6
years.
Commitment Fee:        0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Onlending Terms:       The Ministry of Finance would provide funds (US $6.0 million) directly to
SW payable in 10 years with 4 years of grace at the same interest rate as
provided by the Bank to the Borrower. The remaining funds of US $200,000
would be passed on to the Ministry of Environmental Protection.
Objectives:            The proposed Project would be the fourth Bank environment project (Haapsalu
and Matsalu Bays in Estonia, Liepaja in Latvia and Klaipeda in Lithuania)
with the purpose of reducing pollution in the Baltic Sea. The proposed Project
would forn the first step in taking care of pollution originating from the
Upper Lielupe River Basin, which is a major water pollution source into the
Gulf of Riga portion of the Baltic Sea. The overall purpose of the Project is



- ii-
to address point and non-point pollution sources in the Upper Lielupe River
Basin and to foster its environmentally sustainable management and
development while also promoting regional environmental cooperation. The
main objectives are to: (a) reduce the pollution load from the Siauliai area into
the Upper Lielupe River Basin, thus significantly decreasing the pollution
loads of this transboundary river into the Gulf of Riga; (b) improve the
quality, reliability, and cost efficiency of water supply and wastewater services
in the Municipality of Siauliai; (c) establish a financially sustainable provision
of municipal services; and (d) improve the regional and local environmental
quality monitoring programs and enforcement systems in the Upper Lielupe
River Basin.
Program Category
Objectives:             The proposed Project would promote environmentally sustainable development
through regional environmental cooperation and the strengthening of regional
and local environmental institutions complemented by investments in
infrastructure and specialized equipment.
Description:            The proposed Project would be implemented over four years and would have
two complementary components: a Water and Wastewater Improvement
Component (WWIC) and an Environmental Management Component (EMC).
The WWIC would include: (a) rehabilitation of selected elements of the
existing water and wastewater systems in Siauliai; (b) construction of a new
water treatment facility for a major well field (iron removal); (c) completion
of the new, partially constructed wastewater treatment plant; and (d)
institutional strengthening and training of Siauliai Water (SW), which would
include a twinning arrangement incorporating advisory services, training, and
information technology.
The EMC would consist of: (a) institutional support for the Lithuanian side of
the "Lielupe River Commission" jointly run by Latvia and Lithuania, through
training, technical assistance, equipment and software, and a twinning
arrangement with a foreign river basin management organization; (b)
improvement of the regional environmental monitoring through technical and
financial support to Siauliai and Panevezys Regional Environmental Protection
Offices, including technical assistance, training and monitoring and laboratory
equipment; (c) implementation of a management plan and procedures to
monitor industrial discharges; (d) development of a plan for sludge
management; (e) technical and financial support for selected demonstration
activities for cost effective approaches for pollution control at major pig farms
and improved methods for agricultural run-off control. Complementary
institutional strengthening and monitoring activities in Latvia are anticipated
to be supported by donors and carried out separately.
Project Benefits:       The proposed Project is a necessary step for the GoLI to fulfill its obligations
under the international treaty of HELCOM. Without the proposed Project,
they would not be able to reduce water pollution originating from Lithuania,
as agreed in the treaty. The benefits from the proposed Project are considered



- iii -
to be not only national, but regional and it has been included in the country's
Public Investment Program, endorsed by the Parliament. The direct economic
benefits of the proposed Project are difficult to quantify. The tangible
benefits include positive impact on health, implying lower health care costs,
and positive impact on tourism, implying increased tourism revenues. In
addition, short term direct benefits, include employment opportunities for
Lithuanian technical experts, skilled workers and laborers during the
construction period of the proposed Project. The non tangible benefits are
more difficult to capture in monetary terms, although it is clear that the net
development impact from the proposed Project is clearly positive. The non-
tangible benefits of the project would include: (a) significant improvement in
the water quality of the tributary river that runs into the Lielupe River, thus
reducing transboundary pollution into Latvia and ultimately into the Gulf of
Riga; (b) improvement in the quality and reliability of the water and
wastewater services in Siauliai; (c) efficient, full cost-recovery pricing of
water and wastewater services; (d) creation of a financially autonomous
"model" utility providing cost effective municipal services supplemented by
an adequate social safety net; (e) enhanced regional environmental cooperation
and coordination, thus improved preparedness for control of emergency
situations; (f) improved aesthetic conditions around the river and expanded
domestic tourism through recreational use of areas along the river and at
Jurmala by the Gulf of Riga; (g) better evaluation of problems and
management of surface water and regulatory enforcement; and (h)
demonstration of low cost control measures for agricultural run-off.
Environmental
Screening:              The proposed Project has been placed in environmental screening category
"B". An environmental review, consistent with the provisions of the Bank's
Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment" and the applicable
environmental assessment procedures of the Government of Lithuania (GoLI),
has been prepared for the WWIC and has been reviewed by MoEP.
Supplemental environmental reviews would be prepared as part of the detailed
planning process for activities supported under the EMC. The proposed
Project would not involve involuntary resettlement and is not anticipated to
have an impact on known archaeological or historical sites in Siauliai or other
proposed Project areas.
Water Resources
Management:             The proposed Project is consistent with the Bank's Water Resources
Management Policy by supporting actions to improve the long-term
management of this resource through institutional development and
complementary investment activities.
International
Waterways
OD 7.50:                A legal notification by the MoEP to the Latvian Ministry of Environment and
Regional Development concerning the proposed Project has been carried out
in accordance with the Operational Directive 7.50, "Projects on International



- iv -
Waterways." The Government of Latvia (GoLA) has expressed its strong
support for the proposed Project.
Participatory
Approach:               The preparation of the proposed Project has involved a series of meetings with
representatives of the national government, local authorities, and experts
concerning the findings and recommendations of the consultants and the scope
and objectives of the proposed Project. Workshops were held at which
interested parties reviewed and discussed the proposed project. These
meetings have been given local coverage in the press, television, and radio.
Risks:                  The overall risks of the proposed Project include: (a) implementation delays
due to inexperience with Bank procedures for procurement, accounting, and
disbursement; (b) overrun of construction costs due to the limited experience
with actual implementation costs, the volatility of local prices, and previous
lack of experience with construction activities executed to international
standards; (c) problems with timely provision of local funding. Risks for the
WWIC include: (a) possible increase of leakages from the water supply
distribution network due to insufficient investments in rehabilitation; (b) lack
of political commitment and ability of MS to approve required tariff
adjustments; (c) difficulties for SW to collect tariff revenues from consumers;
and (d) strong opposition for the organizational restructuring by Siauliai City
Council and/or employees. Risks for the EMC include: (a) inadequate
international cooperation in the International Lielupe River Basin Commission;
(b) inadequate coordination of activities between MoEP, MoF, the two
concerned REPOs, SMEO, local governments, nongovernmental organizations
and other parties; and (c) resistance from local authorities and private
landowners to proposed land use control measures.
In general, risks would be minimized through close Bank supervision and
adequate project management arrangements. The overall Project risks would
be minimized by: (a) establishment of a strong PIU whose staff would receive
training in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.; (b) project design
based on conservative approaches to cost estimation combined with the use of
appropriate physical and price contingencies; and (c) close supervision of
monthly disbursements of local funding and availability of interim measures
to bridge local tax collection shortfalls. Risks for the WWIC would be
minimized by: (a) additional funding for network rehabilitation in the second
phase of investments; (b) adequate governance structure for SW and decision
authority for tariff adjustments; (c) extension of the social safety net for low
income households to mitigate negative impact of tariff adjustments (d)
institutional strengthening of SW to improve its financial management, billing
and collection practices; and (e) participation of employees in the
organizational restructuring. Risks for the EMC would be minimized through:
(a) a well defined framework for routine cooperation between Latvia and
Lithuania in the International Lielupe River Basin Commission; (b)
establishment of implementation teams for each sub-component; and (c) direct



v 
public participation in the planning and implementation of proposed
"demonstration" activities for the pig farms and agricultural runoff activities.
Government of Lithuania has selected US dollar loan terms because its
currency is pegged to the US dollar and more than 60% of its foreign
exchange revenues are in US dollars. Onlending from the Borrower to SW
would be in US dollars. Siauliai Water has no foreign exchange revenues and
consequently bears a currency risk when borrowing in foreign currency.
Under the agreed tariff setting formula, SW would pass on all cost of
borrowing to the final consumers. SW's cash flow is allowing for a relatively
short repayment period of the subsidiary loan from the Borrower to SW (10
years) which would reduce the time during which SW is exposed to the
exchange risk.



- vi -
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT*
exchange rate: US $1.00 = LT   4.00
-------- US $ Million --------
Local    Foreign    Total
A. WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPONENT (WWIC)
Project Implementation Unit                               0.14      0.37      0.51
Water Supply                                              1.89      2.09      3.98
Wastewater and Sewerage Rehabilitation                    0.86      1.30      2.17
New Wastewater Treatment Plant                            2.96      4.40      7.36
Technical Assistance and Training                         0.09      1.08      1.17
Base Cost for WWIC   5.94      9.25      15.18
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT (EMC)
Regional Environmental Monitoring                         0.10      0.56      0.66
Environmental Protection Activities in the Upper Lielupe River    0.19  0.51  0.70
Base Cost for EMC   0.29      1.07      1.36
Physical Contingencies   0.61    0.94      1.55
Price Contingencies   4.27    0.50      4.76
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:                                  11.10     11.75     22.85
* Additions may not be fully consistent due to rounding up.
Table 2: DISBURSEMENT BY YEAR
(Bank Fiscal Years)
1926      1922      129 12              20
Bank Fiscal Year
Annual                                                    0.11      1.00      2.27      2.68       0.14
Cumulative                                                0.11      1.11      3.38      6.06       6.20
Cumulative % Total                                        2%        18%       56%       100%      100%
Estimated Closing Date:                                 June 30, 2000
Poverty Category:                                       Not applicable
Economic Rate of Return:                               Non tangible benefits
Map:                                                    IBRD No. 27027
Project Identification Number:                         LT-PA-35783



I. BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1.1          Background. Lithuania is the southernmost and largest of the Baltic countries. It covers
65,000 square kilometers and has a population of about 3.8 million. About 600,000 people live in the
capital, Vilnius. During the Soviet period, Lithuania industrialized rapidly. It had a strong economy based
on specialized industries and agriculture, and was fully integrated into the larger Soviet system. The major
industries were machine building, metal working, textile, leather and wood processing, and agro-
processing, all of which were geared toward export within the Soviet system. While Lithuania does not
have abundant natural resources, it has inherited a highly skilled workforce and relatively well-developed
infrastructure.
1.2          Macroeconomic Situation and Future Outlook.  Since independence in 1991, the
Government of Lithuania (GoLI) has pursued a reform program aimed at reorienting its economy from a
centrally planned to a market system. Progress towards this goal has been substantial, particularly in the
areas of price and trade liberalization, currency and tax reform, privatization, and the development of the
social safety net. However, the transition has not always been smooth, Lithuania's Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) has declined more than half since independence. A formal macro-economic program was launched
in 1991, supported by two International Monetary Fund (IMF) standby arrangements (in October 1991 and
October 1993), based on strict fiscal policy and tight monetary policy.
1.3          GDP began to stabilize in the second half of 1993 and the economy is expected to continue
to improve. Economic growth of GDP was positive in 1994 and is expected to rise to 5 % in 1995 before
stabilizing around 4% per year over the medium term. Projected average growth for the period 1994-2000
is close to 4.5%, which would imply a recovery to pre-independence income levels around year 2010.
This recovery is partly reflected in the increased trade volumes since mid-1993. Annual inflation was
estimated at about 1,020% in 1992 but has declined steadily, except for brief temporary increases in late
1993 and May 1994 related largely to energy price increases and the introduction of a Value Added Tax
(VAT). Annual average inflation for 1994 was 72%, and is expected to decline to 37% in 1995, and to
continue to decline gradually over future years. In mid April 1994, the Government pegged the Litas (the
national currency introduced in mid 1993), to the dollar, and instituted a new currency board to eliminate
the scope for discretionary monetary policy and to create a supportive environment for fiscal measures to
be effective. Capital inflows averaged some $20 million per month during 1994.
1.4          Industry and farming are the largest economic sectors in Lithuania. In 1993, agriculture
accounted for about 21 % of GDP while industry accounted for about 27%. Production of meat and milk
and breeding of cattle and pigs are the most important sources of income for the Lithuanian farms. The
majority of industrial enterprises in Lithuania are engaged in the production of machinery and machine
parts, processed foods, and light industrial products such as textiles, apparel, leather, furniture and
household appliances. However, both the agricultural and industrial sectors have suffered a significant
decline of activity since 1991 from the disruption of trading relations with Russia and other FSU countries.
It is estimated that much of the decline in industrial output took place by the end of 1992. In 1994, it is
estimated that average capacity utilization of enterprises was only 46.5%. Nevertheless, industrial
production in the state sector had more or less stabilized in early 1993, and given the growth in the private
sector, which still remains partly unrecorded, it is estimated that total industrial output increased during
the course of 1993 and early 1994.



- 2 -
1.5          The estimated per capita income level in 1994 was US $1,350. There is an increasing
disparity of incomes between those benefiting from a growing market economy and those, such as
pensioners and the unemployed, whose incomes are fixed. In addition, the income gap is widening
between urban and rural populations. The Lithuanian Bureau of Statistics estimates the nationwide
unemployment in March, 1995 at 5.7%.  This figure, however, could conceal an unrecorded
unemployment as many bankrupt large state owned enterprises, are unable to either pay their employees
or, because of legal constraints cannot release them from employment. The Government is committed to
the development of a comprehensive social protection program. Whereas it is focusing on re-designing
and systematizing the social safety net system; progress is being made on the design of a new consumption
basket to be used as the basis for targeting social assistance; finally, the unemployment system is being
restructured to cope more effectively with the expected rise in unemployment.
1.6          Pnivatization. Privatization -- except of land -- is moving at a reasonable pace. Although
the Government's program aimed at completing enterprise privatization by the end of 1994, only the
privatization of small enterprises was completed by that time. Privatization, through issuance of vouchers
to the public, is expected to be completed during 1995. As of June 30 1995, approximately 5,620 of
Lithuania's 6,700 state-owned enterprises marked for privatization had been sold. The remaining non-
privatized state property will be privatized commercially. The privatization of agricultural enterprises and
the process of land restitution is proceeding slowly, and the development of a land market remains impaired
by restrictions on land use. Efforts to privatize the state enterprise sector has had mixed success, although
the Lithuanian authorities have, in order to facilitate eventual privatization, undertaken several initiatives
to create independent, commercially-oriented entities from previous state-owned conglomerates and large
enterprises. Contraction and restructuring of inefficient agricultural and industrial activities, characterized
by out-dated technology and excess capacity, remain slow.
1.7          Bank Activities in the Country. The main objective of the Bank's country assistance
strategy for Lithuania is to support an acceleration of the economic transformation towards a market system
and a recovery of output and export growth and living standards. In this context, investments to improve
public services and infrastructure are crucial. The Public Expenditure Review (PER) issued in July 1994,
jointly prepared by the GoLI and the Bank, emphasizes infrastructure rehabilitation as a priority area. To
date the Bank has provided the GoLI with a Rehabilitation Loan (No. 3524-LT) of US $60 million in
October 1992, and as a result of the need to support priority investments in energy and environmental
services, including improved water supply and wastewater treatment, the Bank approved the Power
Rehabilitation Loan (No. 3737-LT) for US $26.4 million in May 1994, the Klaipeda Environment Loan
(No. 3816-LT) for US $7 million in December 1994, and the Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance
Loan (No. 3866-LT) for US $25 million in April 1995.
1.8          Given the presence of numerous active donors and lenders in Lithuania, the CAS
emphasizes the importance of aid coordination. In all sectors in which the Bank is active, close contact
is maintained with the bilateral donors and other major international institutions in order to coordinate areas
of emphasis for lending and to mobilize cofinancing and technical assistance. In the case of the
environment sector, this has included coordination on the preparation of studies, provision of technical
support and investment assistance by EU(Life), EU(Phare), NEFCO, Nordic Investment Bank, Denmark,
Finland, Sweden and the United States.



- 3 -
B. Sectoral Context
1.9          Institutional Setting. The central environmental protection authority in Lithuania is the
Ministry of Environmental Protection (MoEP) which was established in June 1994 and is the successor to
the Environmental Protection Department. The MoEP is responsible for: (a) formulating and implementing
Lithuania's policy for environmental protection and natural resource use; (b) supervising environmental
assessment procedures; (c) establishing environmental standards and guidelines; and (d) administering and
enforcing environmental protection and natural resource use throughout Lithuania, and the nation's Baltic
Sea economic zone.
1.10         Under the overall guidance of the MoEP, eight Regional Environmental Protection Offices
(REPO) with environmental laboratories are responsible for enforcing environmental regulations, issuing
permits for projects and providing public information services to the local governments. Given the current
44 administrative regions in Lithuania, each REPO covers several administrative regions'. These units are
under the administration of the respective municipality. The principal functions of the REPO's are: (a)
determination of natural resource use and pollution charges; (b) pollution monitoring; (c) inspection for
compliance with requirements; (d) imposition of penalties for non-compliance; and (e) negotiation of steps
towards compliance.
1.11         Overall strengthening of the MoEP is provided by EU(Phare) and bilateral donors. A
National Environmental Action Plan is being prepared with support from EU(Phare). The GoLI has
recently requested donor grant support, on a grant basis, for the implementation of a National
Environmental Monitoring and Laboratory System Program developed with technical support from the
United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) (see para. 1.17).
1.12         International legislative framework. Lithuania is party to a number of international
environmental conventions and treaties. It has signed and ratified the "Convention on the Protection of
the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area" ("Helsinki Convention"), which obliges it to undertake
concrete actions to reduce marine pollution from land based sources and to implement a wide range of
recommendations on various environmental matters developed by the Helsinki Commission (HELCOM).
In this context, Lithuania has been an active participant in many programs of HELCOM, including the
Programme Implementation Task Force (PITF) which is responsible for coordinating implementation of
the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program (JCP) adopted in 1992. In addition,
Lithuania has adhered to, or is taking steps to, meet requirements of the Bern, Ramsar, and other
Conventions concerning the conservation of animal and plant species including their critical habitats and
wetlands. It is also active in the Environmental Action Programme for Central and Eastern Europe and
the environmental working groups of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN/ECE).
1.13         National legislativeframework. Environmental legislation is still under development in
Lithuania. The current transitional status of the country is characterized by a combination of administrative
procedures, legislation and standards that were in use before independence and some new laws and
provisions stipulated by the GoLI. There are eight laws directly related to environmental protection. The
General Environmental Protection Law, passed in 1992, is the core of the system. Nine other
complementary laws are under preparation and review. The most important of these are: the Law on
1      Some cities have recently established Municipal Environment Offices to complement the REPO's.



- 4 -
Environmental Impact Assessment, about to be submitted to Parliament; the Waste Management Law, also
close to completion; and the Marine Environmental Protection Law, now under consideration in
Parliament. The Law on Protected Areas was promulgated in 1993, while a number of new laws, including
ones on air quality, water quality, and the protection of wild life and the protection of vegetation, are under
preparation.
1.14         Current environmental standards in Lithuania are mostly those inherited from the Soviet
system, which include almost 4,000 water quality standards applied which together are more stringent than
those of the European Union or the United States. As a result of the stringency of the water quality
standards, the monitoring of these standards was considered to be impossible, and the enforcement of
environmental standards was, for all intents and purposes, non-existent. Given Lithuania's participation
in various international environmental conventions, in particular HELCOM, the GoLI is currently in the
process of establishing a system of environmental standards reflecting European Union norms.
1.15         The pollution control policy in Lithuania relies on a mix of command and control regulation
and economic incentives. Every industrial unit in Lithuania, including water supply and wastewater
treatment utilities, must obtain a permit to use natural resources and to discharge pollutants in the
environment. For water, the natural resource permit specifies the quantity of water that the industrial unit
can consume during a given time period for which the firm has to pay a tax as specified by the "Law on
Taxes on the Use of Natural Resources" (No. 190, March 1991) which is collected by the MoEP and paid
into the national budget. With respect to water discharges, the MoEP regulates only discharges directly
into the environment. When a firm discharges pollutants into a municipal sewage network, the regulation
of those discharges is the responsibility of the municipality or the receiving wastewater treatment plant.
The "Law on Taxes on Environmental Pollution" (April 1992) defines pollution fees as well as penalties
for violations. The pollution permit obtained by the industrial unit serves as a basis to calculate the rate
at which emissions of pollution are going to be taxed. Pollution charges are paid to the state tax authorities:
70% are allocated to the Municipal Environmental Protection Fund, and 30% to national budget. All fines
are paid into the State Environmental Protection Fund. The monitoring and enforcement of permit
conditions is carried out by the relevant REPO.
1.16         Monitoring. The national water quality monitoring system currently in place in Lithuania
includes approximately 45 monitoring stations for receiving water quality measurements from
approximately 2,600 discharge points. The REPOs have each an inspection unit supported by a laboratory.
However, the laboratory equipment at most locations is considered old and obsolete. Consequently,
samples are difficult to process accurately and in a timely manner. Moreover, there is no nation-wide
accreditation policy for such laboratories. Hence, despite the fact that emission data are collected from
approximately 2,000 sources, systematic emissions monitoring is limited. There are no protocols for
monitoring methods, and point-source emission data are not necessarily integrated into regional pollution
patterns. In addition, although regulated industrial polluters must submit their emission data to REPOs on
a monthly or quarterly basis, a vast majority of regulated industries lack self-monitoring equipment.
Hence, most data submitted to REPOs are estimated on the basis of emissions factors.
1.17         A recent United States financed project to evaluate the Lithuanian air and water monitoring
programs and the laboratory capability necessary to support those programs, provides the following main
findings and recommendations:



-5 -
(a)   that substantial investment in new laboratory equipment, physical plant and sampling
apparatus is needed to supply the monitoring programs with a minimum capability to detect
pollutants at levels consistent with existing and emerging standards; and
(b)   that organizational and procedural changes need to be taken to optimize data collection,
analysis, and data management, mainly:
*     steps should be taken to develop and implement a rigorous Data Quality
Management Program to improve the quality and the documentation of the
precision of the environmental data; and
*     environmental monitoring, data quality and, environmental database
management protocols and standards should be coordinated not only on
a national basis but also on an international basis to address common
watershed issues.
1.18         Country Environmental Policy and Strategy. Lithuania's environmental problems are
concentrated in the urban industrial areas, and improvements in water and wastewater services are one of
the priorities. A National Environmental Strategy is under preparation with EU (Phare) support and is
expected to be finalized in 1996. At a Bank sponsored "Public Expenditure Conference" held in May
1994, the Lithuanian Prime Minister noted that the GoLI has established the following intersectoral
investment priorities, taking into account the impact on human health, loss of productivity, risk of
irreversible ecological damage and economic efficiency of funds involved: (a) reduction of water pollution,
with an emphasis on construction of wastewater treatment plants, as water pollution, resulting from
organic, nitrogen and phosphorus loads from point and non-point sources, is one of Lithuania's most
serious environmental problems; (b) hazardous waste management, including construction of regional
temporary storage sites and later construction of hazardous waste treatment facilities; and (c) clean-up of
contaminated sites which pose the most serious threat to public health and environment. The GoLI also
seeks to maintain Lithuania's rich biodiversity through protection of areas of critical habitat and by
undertaking activities to reduce pollution from agricultural sources. To fulfill these goals the GoLI seeks
to effectively coordinate donor funding available for environmental activities by promoting cooperation
between donors and multilateral actors.
1.19         Water Supply and Wastewater Services. About 90% of Lithuanian urban households
receive piped water, while the rural communities mostly extract water from private wells. Average water
consumption per capita has been estimated at 250 liter/day, which is relatively high compared to an average
of 175 liter/day in western European countries. This high consumption is partially encouraged by the
absence of metering, but can also be explained by leakages in the water distribution system which in
general is in poor condition. Leakage rates of drinking water are estimated at approximately 25-35 % and
can be as high as 50% in some water supply systems.
1.20         Groundwater is utilized for drinking water in the major urban and industrial areas due to
widespread pollution of surface water and shallow groundwater. In general, deep groundwater supplies
are of good quality and require only limited treatment before consumption. Of the shallow groundwater
wells in rural areas, used by more than one million people, existing data suggest about 77 % are over the
EU limits for bacteriological and nutrient contamination.



- 6 -
1.21          About 80% of urban households are connected to piped sewerage systems. Most existing
wastewater treatment plants are severely overloaded, resulting in large portions of their flow being
discharged after partial treatment or being bypassed with no treatment. Existing sewerage systems are in
poor condition, leading to groundwater contamination and an imminent risk of contaminating the water
supply system through infiltration into the water pipes. In addition, infiltration of groundwater and surface
run off into the sewer system increases wastewater flows, causing additional overloading of the treatment
plants.
1.22          Responsibilities for urban services, including water and wastewater services have been
passed to municipalities as part of the process of decentralization. Since March, 1995, as the result of a
new national legislation, state owned water and wastewater utilities have been turned into municipally
owned, limited joint stock companies. Although the law allows for the privatization of up to 30 % of the
stock of the utilities, these are currently owned entirely by the respective municipality. A separate law has
established municipal authority for setting the water and wastewater tariffs. The GoLI has reserved its right
to intervene (in some specified occasions) in municipal tariff policy.
1.23          In the past, wastewater tariffs were set to cover only operation and maintenance costs, and
were not allowed to be set higher in order to accumulate funds for capital construction or repair. The
legislation has now changed, enabling the municipalities gradually to move from fully subsidized
investments to full cost recovery and to enter the commercial loan market for financing. Currently, based
on declared priorities, the main part of the National Environmental Protection Fund out of the State budget
has been allocated to investments in the rehabilitation and expansion of wastewater treatment facilities.
1.24          In the PER, a "Five Cities Program" for reducing water pollution was adopted. The
program includes: Kaunas, Klaipeda, Palanga, Siauliai and Vilnius. All of these projects are either
approved or under preparation: (a) Kaunas, supported by the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD); (b) Klaipeda, supported by the World Bank; (c) Palanga, self-financed; (d) Vilnius,
supported by Danish assistance; and (e) Siauliai, the proposed Project. The MoEP plans to undertake
"second-generation" water and wastewater projects which would address the needs of the secondary cities,
towns, and settlements.
1.25          Agricultural Pollution. Although the agricultural activities in Lithuania have declined,
agricultural run-off contributea significantly to the overall load of water pollution from Lithuania. The run-
off results from the application and storage of manure and fertilizer, the application of pesticides, and from
livestock operations. Pollution of surface and groundwater resources by manure and fertilizer is caused by:
(a) poor application technology; (b) problems with fertilizer balance for specific fields; (c) poor tillage
practices that fail to incorporate manure and fertilizer into the soil; and (d) open and unsealed storage
facilities. Pesticide pollution problems are associated with improper application, poor storage practices,
and inappropriate disposal of containers.
1.26          Lithuanian authorities want action to be taken to promote improved agricultural practices
to control current problems and as economic recovery accelerates, to avoid a resurgence of problems of
excessive use of fertilizers and pesticides. To achieve this objective, Lithuania has undertaken cooperative
applied research and demonstration programs for management of agricultural run-off with support from
Denmark, Sweden, and the United States. Lithuania also hosted a Baltic regional conference on the
management of agricultural run-off in 1993, to support the establishment of a regional network of model
catchment areas and promote the exchange of experience in addressing these concerns in agricultural
extension programs.



- 7 -
C. The Project Area
1.27         The Lielupe River and River Basin. The Lielupe River is the trunk river formed at the
convergence of the two main tributaries, Musa and Memele which flow through Lithuania. The Lielupe
River is the second largest river2 discharging into the Gulf of Riga, close to the city of Jurmala, 20 km west
of Riga. The Lielupe River Basin covers a land area of more than 17,500 km2. This land is almost equally
distributed between Latvia and Lithuania. A total of about 843,000 people live within the borders of the
Lielupe basin, 58% on the Lithuanian side. The land of the river basin is mainly used for agriculture
(about 55% of the basin area), while forests cover approximately 30% of the basin. The Upper Lielupe
River Basin is roughly 50% of the total drainage area of the Lielupe River. The Lithuanian part of the
Lielupe basin comprises two regions and 11 administrative districts, of which four are entirely situated
within the basin. The two regions are Siauliai and Panevezys.
1.28         Pollution discharges into the river basin have now reached such levels that there is a public
health problem: most sections of the river are unsuitable for recreational use, and several beaches on the
Latvian coast at Jurmala, the country's main summer resort area, have been closed for swimming for
several years as a direct result of pollution from the Lielupe River. The discharge from the Lielupe basin
constitutes 12% of the total discharge, and 20% of the nitrate transports to the Gulf of Riga. The largest
pollution point source in the Lielupe River basin is the city of Siauliai in Lithuania. Its discharges have
major adverse effects throughout the basin and the Gulf of Riga. Pollution sources on the Latvian side of
the river basin are geographically more dispersed. The main non-point source pollution is leakage of
nitrogen and phosphorous from agricultural land. Even though livestock production has declined within
the basin, four major integrated pig breeding, butchering, and marketing complexes (each producing on
average 20,000 animals per year) remain in the Lithuanian watershed constituting an important source of
pollution.
1.29         Lielupe River Basin Commission. In 1991, the "Lielupe River Project" was started between
the Ministries of Environment of Latvia and Lithuania with the long-term objectives of: (a) demonstrating
the feasibility of cooperative river basin management in the context of the Baltic Sea region; (b)
establishment of a joint water quality data base; and (c) development of pollution abatement actions plans.
Cooperation between the two countries has been quite effective and a basic inventory of sources and levels
of pollution has been completed. This international project has been supported by the Government of
Sweden as a contribution to the Baltic Sea Environment Program. The Swedish Environmental Research
Institute - IVL3 has served as the Swedish counterpart organization for project implementation.
1.30         On the basis of initial experience with this cooperative project, the Ministries of
Environment of Latvia and Lithuania signed the "Agreement on Environmental Management of the Lielupe
River Basin" in May 1993 which established the "Lielupe River Basin Commission." The Commission
takes the form of a "joint commission" composed of two delegations: (a) Latvia - Ministry of Environment
and Regional Development, Jelgava Environmental Protection Committee and the Riga Environmental
Protection Committee; and (b) Lithuania - Ministry of Environmental Protection, Panevezys Regional
Environmental Protection Department and Siauliai Regional Environmental Protection Department. The
functions and powers of the Commission include the coordination of cooperative actions to protect the
2      (after the Daugava River).
3      Institutet for Vatten- och LuftvArdsforskning



- 8 -
Lielupe River, by national and local governments within the drainage basin; preparation of cooperative
studies and investigations; and preparation of any future agreements. To date the work of the Commission
has focused on data collection and baseline monitoring in the context of the cooperative program between
Latvia. The Governments of Latvia and Lithuania have expressed to the Bank their interest in having the
Commission become fully operational and to expand the scope of their cooperation to include the
implementation of priority actions. Priorities for future action include making the Commission operational
at the national and field levels, establishing a permanent monitoring system, providing information to
support pollution control investments, promoting demonstration activities to control small scale point and
non-point source pollution, and development of an effective emergency warning system.
1.31          Siauliai. The city of Siauliai is situated in northeast Lithuania, some 150 km inland from
the Baltic coast and about 50 km from the border with Latvia. The region surrounding Siauliai is flat and
crisscrossed by a large number of small rivers, forming the upper reaches of the Lielupe River Basin.
Siauliai is situated on one of the smaller tributaries, the Kulpe, which is about three meters across and less
than a meter deep when it reaches the city. All of the city municipal and industrial wastewater is
discharged into the Kulpe River and, in summer, often constitutes its entire flow. The Kulpe flows
distressingly within 10 meters of the "Hill of Crosses", the principal tourist site near Siauliai and an
important holy and national shrine for Lithuanians.
1.32          With a current population of 147,000, Siauliai is the fourth largest city in Lithuania. The
population is expected to increase slowly over the next decade to reach approximately 150,000 in year
2000. The city's economic base is mainly industrial, the dominant industry being the food processing
industry. The majority of the industries are now operating considerably below capacity, and the
restructuring of the economy makes it almost impossible to predict with accuracy which of these industries
are likely to survive in a market economy. However, there are indications that a number of industries, in
particular the brewery, some of the food-related industries, and the bicycle factory could succeed.
1.33          According to the Statistics Office of the Municipality of Siauliai, approximately 88,000
individuals are of working age of which about only 50,000 are employed working in private and state
enterprises. Pensioners and those under sixteen years of age are the other two groups of people with
approximately 25,000 and 35,000 individuals respectively. Thirty-five percent of the working population
of Siauliai is currently employed in the industrial sector. Average wages in state enterprises in Siauliai
range from 314 LT/month in retail sales to 552 LT/month in the construction industry. Pensioners receive
a monthly pension of approximately 120 Litas from the state. The registered unemployed receive between
75 and 120 Litas a month for a period of 6 months after registration. In addition, a significant grey
economy provides many with their primary income or supplementary income.
1.34          Siauliai Water (SWJ. Siauliai Water, a municipally owned joint stock company, provides
water and wastewater services to approximately 85% of the population of Siauliai, or approximately
125,000 people. Fifteen percent of the population, mostly in peri-urban areas, draw water from their own
shallow wells and use cesspits and septic tanks for disposal of wastewater. In addition, the utility provides
approximately 80% of the industry's water needs, the remaining industrial needs being satisfied by private
wells. SW currently receives all industrial wastewater from the city in its collection network.
1.35          The organization structure of SW is similar to utilities in the neighboring countries. It is
characterized by self-sufficiency in the provision of services and a high number of people in both core and
support services. The water and sewerage networks and process technologies are to a large extent outdated



- 9 -
and require therefore much repair and servicing. Nevertheless, the quality of housekeeping of SW is high
throughout the organization, which reflects good work discipline and competent management. SW
currently employs more than 560 individuals, corresponding to about five employees per 1,000 served
customers. This is about 4-5 times more than in Western Europe on average.
1.36         The transformation of SW from a state enterprise to a municipal joint stock company has
required much attention from the City Council, municipal administration and the utility itself. The
objective to safeguard public interest has created a governance process with an excessive number of layers
of political and administrative representatives. In working with MoEP, the Bank, donor agencies, and
consultants, SW has demonstrated a willingness to examine new approaches to management, to develop
a balanced investment program and to place an increased priority on operation and maintenance issues.
SW has drafted a detailed Action Plan (Annex 2), which includes a new governance plan, draft enterprise
strategy, tariff setting process and organizational restructuring plan. As a condition for negotiations, the
City Council transferred the tariff setting authority to the Executive Committee of the MS.
1.37          Water Supply and Levels of Service. Water supplied in Siauliai is generally available
without interruption. Drinking water is drawn from groundwater aquifers, and contains high levels of iron
and calcium, making it both discolored and excessively hard. Both the iron and calcium levels exceed
Lithuanian standards and EU directives. Statistics collected by health care centers across Lithuania appear
to show the incidence of kidney and liver ailments in Siauliai to be 10-15% higher than elsewhere in the
country. It is widely believed by medical authorities and municipal officials in Siauliai that this higher
incidence is the direct consequence of the iron and calcium content of the water consumed in Siauliai.
Water extraction has decreased by about 30% from 60,000 m3 to approximately 40,000 m3 over the last
2-3 years due to a decrease in water consumption by the industrial sector.
1.38         Leakage at the water supply station and from the network was estimated to be 7,000 m3/day
or 18% of total water extraction and is anticipated to increase. Such leakage from the system is to be
expected, given the age of the system. The oldest pipes are more than 40 years old, well above the
estimated lifetime of steel pipes (estimated 20 years) and cast iron pipes (estimated 40 years). The
condition of the pipes is worsened by the nature of the pumps (an "on/off" type) causing severe water
hammering. The reliability and energy efficiency of the equipment in the pumping stations are poor and
the supply of spare parts from former FSU sources unreliable. Accordingly, maintenance and energy costs
are high.
1.39         Sanitation Facilities and Levels of Service. Industrial plants within the boundaries of the
MS (approximately 56 plants, of which 35 are of a significant size) discharge their effluents into the
municipal sewerage system. The existing wastewater treatment plant, located immediately adjacent to a
residential area, is in poor condition and has a short remaining physical life.
1.40         The sewerage system is suffering from lack of rehabilitation, and infiltration of surface and
groundwaters into the system is substantial. In addition, leaks from the sewerage system are a potential
threat to the groundwater. The sewerage system discharges to a treatment plant, originally built in 1967,
and from there to the outfall into the Kulpe River. The existing treatment plant's capacity is below the
current flows, resulting in deficient treatment at the plant and routine bypassing of the wastewater flows
directly into the Kulpe River. Flow of the wastewater treatment plant is at present approximately 40-
45,000 m3/day with a BOD load of 15 t/d. It is estimated that the plant can biologically treat between 35-
40,000 m3/day. The average daily production of wastewater in 1994 was estimated to be 46,000 m3/day
(25,500 m3 from the residential sector, 7,700 ni from the industrial sector, and 12,800 dh from water
infiltration caused mainly by the poor condition of the wastewater pipes network). Peak flows, before the



- 10 -
decline in industrial activities, influenced by storm water, have exceeded 100,000 m3/day. The current
average BOD concentration of the treated effluent discharged in the river, even following the reduction in
industrial flows due to economic recession, is estimated to be 80-100 mg/l compared with the "HELCOM
Recommendation" of 15 mg/I.
1.41          Toward the end of the Soviet period, the construction of a new wastewater plant outside
the city was started in Siauliai. The new plant was scalcd according to Soviet norms for domestic and
industrial water use and wastewater generation. About half of the civil works for this plant are currently
complete. The new facility, however, vastly exceeds in capacity any expected flow from Siauliai, even
under the most optimistic assumptions of industrial growth. A revised design has been prepared by a joint
team of Lithuanian and Swedish specialists. The revised design takes advantage of the fixed investments
in civil works and has adjusted the design parameters to those consistent with western design norms.
1.42          SW's sludge handling capacity is inadequate.  The wastewater treatment plant was
originally designed with a digester, and later with a centrifuge. However, neither of these has ever been
in operation. All the sludge is pumped into lagoons. The first set of these lagoons, covering 13.5 ha, was
closed in the late 1970's. A second set of lagoons, located at the site of the new wastewater treatment
plant, covering approximately 100 ha, is expected to be filled by 1996. This area includes several ponds
for tannery and slaughterhouse wastes. SW estimates that 12 new hectares of lagoon are needed each year.
The sludge is not differentiated according to toxicity. It is believed that the clay soil beneath the lagoons
prevents contamination of the groundwater; however, no groundwater monitoring exists to validate these
claims.
1.43          Monitoring.  There are currently approximately 4,600 water consumption meters
(industry, 360; residential, 300; and commercial, 3,940) in operation in Siauliai. There is usually only a
single meter per multi-unit dwelling, discouraging households from undertaking measures to reduce their
water consumption.
1.44          In order to establish the pollution charges SW and private industrial users have to pay
MoEP, the pollution content of their effluent must by analyzed on a weekly basis. The REPO monitors
and analyzes the effluent of the treatment plant on a monthly basis and pollution charges are paid by the
treatment plant on a quarterly basis. Plants discharging into the municipal sewerage network have to
analyze the pollution content of their effluent regularly (quarterly for larger plants) and submit to the utility
their total discharges of pollutants once a year. Sampling of the plants' effluents by the utility is performed
irregularly but tends to be more frequent for larger plants. Compliance with the conditions of the permits
appears to be universal, but this is mainly due to the decline in industrial activity. Though Siauliai
regulates the discharges of heavy metals by industrial sources, it is common knowledge that the incentives
are not large enough to induce any abatement of those emissions. The reported presence of heavy metals
in the plants' effluents undermines the efficiency of the biological treatment of the wastewater and makes
the sludge, after dewatering, unsuitable for use in agriculture or forestry.
1.45          The REPO of Siauliai monitors water quality at five different stations in the Siauliai region.
Once a month, samples are taken from each of these stations, and the BOD, nitrogen, phosphorous,
ammonia, and nitrate content are determined. These analyses are performed in the laboratory of the
regional office. Four times a year, samples are analyzed by the central laboratory of the MoEP in Vilnius
for their heavy metals content, including copper, nickel, zinc, chromium, cadmium and lead. However,
laboratory equipment is generally obsolete, and the data itself are not sufficiently reliable to identify the
pollution load at specific point sources.



- I1 -
D. Bank Environment Strategy in Lithuania, Past Experience and Rationale
1.46         Environment is one of the focal areas of the Bank's country assistance strategy for
Lithuania; hence, priority investments in the sector, together with the project's intended support to the
decentralization process in the country, ranks highly in the Bank's program. The Bank's approach to
environmental concerns is to support: (a) preventive measures to avoid adverse environmental impacts,
through the use of policy and regulatory measures, environmental assessments, environmental planning
methods and economic instruments; and (b) curative measures to address existing problems of air, water
and soil pollution in a cost effective manner. The investment components should focus on the rehabilitation
of critical infrastructure and support well justified and phased expansion of facilities at priority locations,
complemented by support for institutional strengthening activities. Also, the Bank looks for a high
demonstration and replication value at the national and regional level. The Bank also seeks to develop
projects where resources can be effectively mobilized from other international financial institutions,
bilateral donors and non-governmental sources and which support local institutional capacity thus
promoting self-sufficiency for the future.
1.47         In the water and wastewater area, the Bank's strategy for Central and Eastern Europe has
been integrated into the Bank's environmental program and presented by the Bank in a number of forums,
including the Workshop on Water and Wastewater Utilities held in Riga (1993) and the Resource
Mobilization Conference for the Baltic Sea Environment Program held in Gdansk (1993). The key
elements of the strategy are:
(a)    establishing strong water supply and wastewater utilities to support sustainable investments
in municipal water and wastewater treatment through the development of autonomous self-
financing municipal/regional public or private water and wastewater utilities;
(b)    supporting least cost planning and investment selections for municipal/industrial water
supply and wastewater systems, which are properly sized and designed;
(c)    promoting water demand management to maximize investment resources and reduce
operating costs;
(d)    supporting actions for rehabilitation of existing systems, improvements in operational
efficiency, phasing and utilization of cost-effective technologies to reduce investment and
operating costs significantly; and
(e)    promoting the careful analysis of the impact of industries and taking into consideration
actions to reduce industrial water consumption and wastewater discharges.
1.48         Bank experience in the implementation of environmental management projects in Central
and Eastern Europe, to date, centers on the lessons learned from the Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays
Environment Project in Estonia, the Environment Management Project in Poland, the Liepaja Environment
Project in Latvia, and the Klaipeda Environment Project in Lithuania, currently under implementation.
These projects demonstrate the importance of:



- 12 -
(a)    establishing locally staffed project implementation units which have personnel well trained
in project supervision, financial management and competitive procurement procedures,
further supported with proper independent auditing; and
(b)    careful monitoring of the availability of local counterpart funds.
These projects also demonstrate the high potential of a well designed and managed project to attract donor
support for priority activities.
1.49         Bank experience worldwide in the water and wastewater sector is extensive. Important
lessons learned include:
(a)   justifying investments in municipal wastewater treatment plants within the context of a
basin-wide, least-cost strategy for improving ambient water quality, in accordance with a
phased plan for water quality improvements;
(b)    making investment decisions that are guided by a medium-term, prioritized least-cost
investment plan covering all of a utility's needs. The definition of this investment program
requires the preparation of comprehensive master plans and feasibility studies; and
(c)    validating investment decisions by careful financial plans (including financial projections),
complemented by institutional strengthening action plans, to ensure that the proposed
investment program is financially viable and that the utility is prepared to assume the
responsibility for effective management of systems and facilities.
These lessons have been considered in the design of the proposed project.
1.50         The proposed Project would promote regional environmental cooperation and
environmentally sustainable management and development of the Upper Lielupe River Basin. It would also
provide an opportunity to assist the Lithuanian Government in its efforts to improve its capacity to
coordinate and manage environmental projects, to improve national environmental quality, protect the
Baltic Sea and demonstrate environmental management techniques. The implementation of the proposed
Project is of particular importance because of the limited absorptive capacity of the Lielupe River Basin
which extends into Latvia and drains into the Gulf of Riga at Jurmala. In the absence of Bank involvement,
it is unlikely that the country would be able to mobilize the technical assistance and financial resources
required to implement the proposed Project in such an integrated manner.



II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1          In 1974, the countries of the Baltic Sea region signed the "Convention on the Protection
of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area" in Helsinki ("HELCOM"). In April 1992, the
Ministers of Environment of the Baltic Sea region adopted a Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action
Plan (JCP) which identified a series of priority actions concerning policies and legislation, actions for the
control of point and non-point source pollution, measures for the management of coastal lagoons and
wetlands as well as institutional strengthening and human resources development to be undertaken as
elements of a long-term regional environmental program.
2.2          In Lithuania and Latvia, there has been considerable concern both about the adverse
environmental effects of point and non-point source pollution discharged directly to the Lielupe River and
its tributaries. More than half of the total pollutant load of the Lielupe River originates from the City of
Siauliai in Lithuania while on the Latvian side, pollution sources are relatively small and geographically
dispersed. The Latvian Government (GoLA) has raised its concerns about the transboundary pollution
originating from the Lithuanian side on a number of occasions. The GoLI has acknowledged the problem,
and when Siauliai was pointed out in the JCP as a "priority Hot Spot" it was concurrently ranked by
Lithuanian authorities as a high priority for national and foreign investment in environmental protection
and included in the Public Investment Program and approved by the Lithuanian Parliamentary Committee
on Environment and the Cabinet of Ministers.
2.3          MoEP and MS obtained funding for preparation of the feasibility study4 for water and
wastewater improvements in Siauliai from the Govermnent of Sweden. Concurrently, personnel from
MoEP, concerned REPOs, the Siauliai Environment Department, and the Swedish Environmental Research
Institute, reviewed potential environmental management activities for the Upper Lielupe River Basin.
Preparation of the proposed Project included an identification mission in January 1995, a pre-appraisal
mission in March/April 1995 and an appraisal mission in June 1995. These visits have also included the
participation of representatives of Sida, the Finnish Ministry of Environment, and the Norwegian Pollution
Authority.
2.4          The proposed Project would be the second Bank-supported investment project for
improvement of environmental quality undertaken by the GoLI. It was developed by MoEP with the
assistance of the Bank as an integrated environmental management project, with emphasis on reduction of
both domestic and transboundary impacts of water pollution It supports the GoLI's objectives to promote
the decentralization of responsibility for environmental services to municipal governments and to
restructure and modernize the water and wastewater sector. The proposed Project is also intended by
MoEP to serve as a "model project" to demonstrate actions for management of point source pollution from
restructured livestock enterprises and control of non-point source pollution from agriculture. In addition,
the strategy of the MoEP is to have the proposed Project provide a technical and management framework
for an effective application of funds from diverse sources to maximize environmental benefits. These
benefits would be reduced if funds were used at a variety of separate locations.
4     Scanvironment (Sweden).



- 14 -
B. Project Objectives
2.5          Project Objectives.  The overall purpose of the Project is to promote regional
environmental cooperation, address pollution sources in the Upper Lielupe River Basin and promote its
environmentally sustainable management and development. The following project objectives would be
monitored according to project monitoring indicators determined during appraisal (Annex 1):
*     reduction of various pollutant loads from the Siauliai area into the Upper Lielupe River
Basin, thus decreasing the transboundary pollution into the river and the Gulf of Riga;
*     improvement of the quality, reliability and cost efficiency of water supply and wastewater
services in Siauliai;
*     assist in establishing financially sustainable provision of municipal services; and
*     improvement of the regional and local environmental quality monitoring and enforcement
system in the Upper Lielupe River Basin.
2.6           Complementary institutional strengthening and monitoring activities would be supported
by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) in Latvia. These activities would
share a common design and consultants would be chosen in collaboration with the Bank.
C. Participation by Other Organizations in Project Activities
2.7          The GoLI would provide US $7.60 million equivalent and MS US $0.45 million equivalent
in grants for financing Project activities. The limited municipal financing is caused by scarce funding
capacity and the fact that the proposed Project is a regional environment project, requiring national level
participation, rather than a municipal water and wastewater project. The proposed municipal contribution
per year constitutes about 5 % of the MS annual budget. Grant funds provided by donors are being made
available to MoEP specifically to support an integrated environmental project which has been designed and
would be supervised with the active support of the Bank. Most of the bilateral funds are provided in the
context of national support for the Baltic Sea Environment Programme and cannot be transferred into other
projects. Project preparation was coordinated by the MoEP, with the support of the Bank. Representatives
of the Governments of Finland, Sweden, and Norway, participated actively in the project preparation. The
Bank is assisting in the preparation of terms of reference for the EMC, to be used by participating donors.
The following organizations have expressed their intent to support the implementation of the proposed
Project:
(a)    Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency. The Government of Sweden,
through Sida, intends to provide a grant of SEK 29 million (about US $4.0 million
equivalent) to support investments for wastewater treatment improvements in Siauliai and
about US $300,000 to support EMC activities for reduction of non-point source pollution.
In addition, the Swedish Government is already funding activities to support the "Lielupe
River Basin Commission"for about SEK 2.6 million (about US $350,000). Sida is also
reviewing possible additional support for a twinning arrangement with a Swedish river
basin management organization;



- 15 -
(b)    Ministry of Environment of Finland. The Government of Finland, through its Ministry of
Environment, intends to provide a grant of FIM 7.30 million (about US $1.7 million
equivalent) to support investments for wastewater treatment improvements in Siauliai (US
$1.5 million) and the preparation and implementation of the Industrial Pollution
Management Plan (US $200,000). The Ministry of Agriculture has indicated its interest
in supporting the EMC activities (about US $400,000) for pollution control in pig farms;
(c)    Norwegian Pollution Authority. The Government of Norway, through its Pollution
Authority, has indicated that it would provide a grant of about US $1.5 million
equivalent to support sewer network rehabilitation and institutional strengthening of SW
in the form of a twinning arrangement with a water and wastewater utility; and
(d)    Other Potential Donors. The GoLI and the Bank are currently consulting with EU(Phare),
the Governments of Denmark, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and other selected bilateral
donors concerning possible additional funding for both components of the proposed
Project.
D. Project Components and Description
2.8          Project Description. A Project Implementation Plan (PIP), based on an outline provided
by the Bank, is under preparation by the Borrower. The PIP would provide details of the project and its
implementation. The preparation of the PIP by the Borrower would promote greater sense of ownership
of the project and assure their active involvement in the implementation of the Project. A draft PIP was
discussed during negotiations. The final PIP will include an Action Plan (Annex 2) for the SW and an
Implementation Program for the EMC. The Action Plan states the SW's operational, organizational, and
fuiancial goals in the short- and medium-term and include proposed additional steps for achieving Project
objectives and enabling efficient implementation of the WWIC. This includes changes in governance, tariff
setting practices, operational restructuring, and incentives for enterprise efficiency.
2.9          The finalization and submission of an acceptable implementation program, for the EMC
by MoEP to the Bank was a condition of Board Presentation (para 6.5). During negotiations, it was
agreed that the Project would be carried out in accordance with the SW Action Plan and the EMC
Implementation Program, as agreed with the Bank (para. 6.4a).
2.10         The proposed Project, consists of two complementary components, which would be
implemented over four years. A overview of the proposed project is presented as Annex 3. The project
would comprise:
(a)    Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC - US $21.0 million). This would
include support for rehabilitation, upgrading, and expansion of the water and wastewater
system, including equipment and works, and engineering services. An important element
for institutional strengthening would be the contractual twinning arrangement with a water
and wastewater utility. A condition for effectiveness of the proposed Loan is that an
agreement for a twinning arrangement between SW and a foreign water and wastewater
utility acceptable to the Bank, has been executed on behalf of SW and such utility, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 6.6a) (Annex 4A). Key activities of
the WWIC would be as follows:



- 16 -
(i)    Water Supply and Distribution:
*      construction of an iron removal plant at the existing Birute
groundwater well field;
*      renewal of pumps requiring high maintenance and supply of
critical spare parts; and
*      carry out a leak detection and control program.
(ii)    Wastewater Collection and Treatment:
*      rehabilitation of the sewerage system to reduce infiltration and
leakage;
*      rehabilitation of pumping stations requiring high maintenance
including provision of energy efficient equipment;
*      rehabilitation of the existing Siauliai wastewater treatment plant
to allow operations during the construction of the new wastewater
treatment plant in Siauliai; and
*      completion of the new wastewater treatment plant, including main
pumping station, screens, grit removal, primary sedimentation,
aeration, phosphorus removal, final sedimentation, and sludge
dewatering.
(iii)   Technical Assistance and Training for:
*      preparation of a detailed tariff study for SW;
*      support for PIU (engineering design, project coordination and
construction supervision); and
*      institutional restructuring and strengthening  (including the
twinning arrangement) and training for SW.
All sub components, except Birute iron removal plant and the new wastewater
treatment plant consist of rehabilitation of existing networks or replacement of
pumps. The least cost options would be determined during the detailed design and
subsequent bidding process. Alternatives concern selection of materials (e.g.
ductile iron versus plastic), construction methods (e.g. no dig or open trench
technology) or equipment.
The proposed Birute iron removal plant would be the same design as the existing
plant at Dzidai. It is of conventional design, having a minimum level of
sophisticated equipment but still allowing automatic operation with relatively few
operators required at site. The technology is considered appropriate for the
proposed Project because it fits the specific soil conditions, and does not require
additional land areas which would be a constraint. In addition, the operators are
well acquainted with the current technology.



- 17 -
Two alternative sites were considered for the new wastewater treatment plant: the
existing site, and the site for the partially constructed new plant. The existing site
is very close to residential areas (less than 200 meters) and existing land use would
make the storage of sludge from a reasonable distance from the plan impossible.
In addition, considerable investmnents have already been made at the new site. The
cost estimate of the new wastewater treatment plant and related sub components
e.g. main pumping station are based on maximal utilization of already built
structures. Detailed design phase will involve comparison of different alternatives
e.g. for water and sludge processes which is a normal practice in wastewater
treatment plant projects.
(b)    Environmental Management Component (EMC - US $1.85 million). The activities to be
supported under the EMC include:
Activity No. 1. Direct Support for the Lithuanian side of the "Lielupe
River Basin Commission (US $300, 000): "
*      Preparation of an administrative and management framework for
use by Latvian and Lithuanian authorities responsible for the
Commission;
--    Establishment of a Commission field office at the REPO in
Siauliai to be complemented by a Latvian field office in Jelgava
at the Regional Protection Committee with funding from a
bilateral donor;
*     Training of personnel from the MoEP, Siauliai field office and
concerned local governments in the principles of integrated river
basin management by a foreign "twinning partner" with
comparable training being offered with bilateral donor support for
Latvian experts;
*     Advisory support and applied study tours provided by the
"twinning partner;"
*     Provision of basic office equipment including  furniture,
computers, photocopying machine, and telefax;
*      Establishment of a basic Geographic Information System, on a
cooperative basis with Latvia, for data collection, storage and
analysis; and
*      Establishment of a cooperative  emergency  warning  and
management system.
Activity No. 2. Regional Environmental Monitoring and Water Quality
Laboratory System (US $850, 000):
*     Establishment, in cooperation with the Panevezys and Siauliai
REPOs, a regional water quality monitoring system to support the
work of the Commission;
*      Development of three water quality monitoring stations in the
Upper Lielupe River Basin;



- 18 -
*      Provision of required portable sampling and analytical equipment
for field use and complementary equipment for laboratory use for
analysis of the following parameters: streamflow, temperature,
turbidity, conductivity, color, pH, alkalinity, oxygen, BOD,
COD, phosphorous and nitrogen;
*      Equipment for the monitoring and analysis of air and water
discharges from industrial facilities, including the analysis of
heavy metals;
*      Equipment for the  analysis  of soil and  groundwater
contamination;
*     Training for personnel in the inter-calibration of equipment,
sampling techniques, standardized methods for data collection and
analysis on personal computers and interpretation;
*      Development and implementation of a management plan and
procedures to restrict the discharge of industrial wastewaters; and
*      Preparation of an evaluation of old and current sludge disposal
sites and development of a plan to improve sludge management.
Activity No. 3. Small Point Source Pollution Control (US $400, 000):
*     Implementation on a "demonstration basis" of cost-effective
management and control actions to reduce pollution at pig farms
in the Upper Lielupe River Basin; and
*     Training seminars and technical assistance for representatives of
the pig farms in the Project area and other livestock producers.
Activity No. 4. Non-Point Source Pollution Control (US $300,000):
Implementation of an agricultural run-off demonstration activities;
*     -Establishment of measurement facilities to assess nutrient runoff;
*     Annual on-farm inventories to assess responses to changes in
management;
*      Demonstration activities for the more efficient use of manure,
fertilizers and pesticides;
*     Measures to limit animal density;
*      Actions to increase nutrient trapping and improve biological
diversity;
*      An active extension and information program with an emphasis on
direct farmer participation; and
*     Complementary activities to improve the management of
household wastes and other measures to protect drinking water.
2.11         It is anticipated that Project supported institutional strengthening activities in Lithuania
under the EMC would have complementary activities for institutional strengthening in Latvia supported
by bilateral sources. Discussions concerning funding for these complementary activities in Latvia have
been initiated with the Government of Sweden.



- 19 -
E. Cost Estimates
2.12            The total cost of the Project is estimated to be US $22.85 million (about LT 91.40 million
equivalent) including contingencies. SW does not have any net Value Added Tax (VAT) payments, all paid
VAT is reimbursed to SW and is therefore not included in Project costs. As an environmental project, the
proposed Project qualifies for exemption from local taxes. Price contingencies are based on a prediction
for international inflation of 2.5%  - 1995-98 and 3% for 1999. Local inflation in Litas is predicted at 26%
- 1996, 22% - 1997, 18% - 1998, 14% - 1999. The estimated cost distributed among components is shown
in Table 2.1 and in greater detail in Annex 5, Tables la and lb.
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary By Project Component*
exchange rate: US $1.00 = LT 4.00
---  LT million -US $ Million --    %                %
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total Foreign Base Cost
A. WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPONENT (WWIC)
Project Implementation Unit                          0.55   1.49   2.04   0.14   0.37   0.51   73%       3%
Water Supply                                         7.55   8.35   15.90   1.89   2.09   3.98   53%      26%
Wastewater and Sewerage Rehabilitation               3.45   5.21   8.66   0.86   1.30   2.17   60%       14%
New Wastewater Treatment Plant                       11.84  17.62  29.46   2.96   4.40   7.36   60%      48%
Technical Assistance and Training                    0.34   4.33   4.68   0.09   1.08   1.17   93%       8%
Base Cost for WWIC  23.74  36.99  60.73   5.94   9.25   15.18   61%    100%
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT (EMC)
Regional Environmental Monitoring                    0.40   2.25   2.65   0.10   0.56   0.66   85%       49%
Enviromnental Protection Activities in the Upper Lielupe River  0.75   2.03   2.78   0.19   0.51   0.70   73%  51%
Base Cost for EMC  1.15   4.28   5.43   0.29   1.07   1.36   79%    100%
Physical Contingencies  2.44   3.76   6.21   0.61   0.94   1.55   61%    9%
Price Contingencies  17.06   1.98   19.05   4.27   0.50   4.76   10%  29%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:                              44.40  47.02  91.41  11.10  11.75  22.85   51%
*Additions may not be fuly consistent due to rounding up.
2.13            The WWIC cost is estimated at about US $21.00 million or LT 84.00 million equivalent,
including contingencies. The total WWIC base cost is estimated at US $15.20 million. Physical
contingencies are estimated at US $1.40 million. Price contingencies would amount to approximately
US $4.40 million or 27% of base cost, plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent 38% of
the base cost. Conservative contingency factors have been used given the limited experience with
construction cost estimates and prices in Lithuania. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about
US $10.50 million including contingencies, or about 50% of the total cost of the WWIC.
2.14            The EMC cost is estimated at about US $1.68 million or LT 7.40 million equivalent,
including contingencies. The total base cost is estimated at US $1.40 million. Physical contingencies are
estimated at US $0.10 million. Price contingencies would amount to approximately US $0.40 million or
27 % of base cost plus physical contingencies.



- 20 -
F. Project Financing Arrangements
2.15         Single Currency Loan. GoLI is eligible for single currency loans (SCL) under the
expanded SCL program for 100% of its anticipated FY96 lending program of US $42.1 million equivalent.
The Borrower informed the Bank during negotiations that it wishes to borrow in single currency (US
dollar) at a fixed interest rate for the proposed Project. The Lithuania delegation justified the choice of
a single currency loan by: (a) the composition and structure of Lithuania's foreign exchange reserve; (b)
that Lithuania's currency is pegged to the US dollar; and (c) that more than 60% of Lithuania's foreign
transactions are based on the US dollar. In addition, the Lithuania delegation pointed out that SW would
benefit from a fixed interest rate as it would enable more accurate calculations of interest obligations which
is desirable as these calculations impact SW's consumers through water and wastewater tariffs.
2.16         The proposed Bank Loan of US $6.20 million would finance about 27% of total Project
costs including contingencies. The proposed Bank Loan would finance about 33 % of the foreign costs and
26% of the local costs. The Bank Loan would be a fixed rate US dollar single currency loan with standard
amortization terms, grace period and interest rate for such loans that are expected to disburse within 3-6
years. As no other financing is available, an advance of US $250,000 (or about 4%) has been requested
from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and would be used to support the immediate establishment of
the PIU, preparation of bidding documents and to conduct a tariff study for SW.
2.17         WW7C. A portion of the proposed Bank Loan (US $6.0 million) would finance about 29%
of the WWIC including contingencies. Parallel grant cofinancing by the Governments of Finland
(US $1.50 equivalent), Norway (US $1.50 million equivalent), and Sweden (US $4.00 million equivalent)
would comprise about 33 % of total component costs. Local counterpart contribution of LT 30.40 million
or US $7.60 million equivalent would be provided by the GoLI and LT 1.60 million or US $400,000
equivalent would be provided by the MS and comprises about 38% of the total component costs.
2.18         EMC. A portion of the proposed Bank Loan (US $200,000) would finance about 11 % of
the EMC including contingencies. Grant financing would comprise US $1.65 million or 89% of the costs.
Parallel grant cofinancing by the Government of Sweden (about US $ 650,000) has been preliminary
confirmed and additional support for a twinning arrangement with a Swedish river basin management
organization is under review. The Finnish Ministry of Environment would provide US $200,000
equivalent for the preparation and implementation of an Industrial Pollution Management Plan and the
Finnish Ministry of Agriculture would provide US $400,000 for activities in the pig farms. Participation
of EU(Phare), Governments of Denmark, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and other donors for an amount
of at least US $0.40 million equivalent is under discussion.
2.19         A condition for loan effectiveness was that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Finnish Grant Agreement, the Swedish Grant Agreement and the Norwegian Grant Agreement have
been fulfilled (para 6.6b). During negotiations it was agreed that if proposed grantfinancing for the EMC
would not be confirmed by June 30, 1997, the GoLI would find alternativefinancing (para. 6. Ia).
2.20         The Project has been collaboratively designed with the direct participation of
representatives of the Governments of Finland, Norway and Sweden. Extensive discussions have been held
concerning the respective responsibilities of the cofinancers in implementation and supervision of the
Project. Proceeds from the proposed Bank loan would be utilized to finance water supply and wastewater
components and selected subcomponents of the EMC. Proceedings from the Finnish, Norwegian and
Swedish grants, would finance rehabilitation subcomponents for the old wastewater plant, activities at the
new wastewater treatment plan, and the twinning arrangement. A detailed breakdown of the financing of
subcomponents by financier is provided in Table lb in Annex 5.



- 21 -
2.21          The sumnmarized financing plan presented in Table 2.2 includes the proceeds of the Bank
Ioan, local contribution and cofinancing. More detailed financing plans can be found in Tables 2 and 3
in Annex 5.
Table 2.2: Summarized Financing Plan
A. WWIC                       B. EMC
US $ Million                 US $ Million
Financers                             Lal    Foreign    Total       La       Freign    TDI
IBRD (loan)                            2.76      3.24      6.00     0.00      0.20      0.20
Min. of Environment Finland (grant)    0.00      1.50      1.50     0.22      0.38      0.60
Government of Norway (grant)           0.02      1.48      1.50
Government of Sweden (grant)           0.33      3.67     4.00      0.21      0.44      0.65
Gov. of Lithuania (grant)              6.96      0.65      7.60
Municipality of Siauliai (grant)       0.40      0.00     0.40                          0.00
Other financers (grant)                                             0.21      0.19      0.40
Total                                 10.46     10.54     21.00      0.64      1.21     1.85
Project Total                                                                           22.85
2.22          Onlending Arrangements.  The GoLI views the proposed Project as a priority
environmental investment, and is therefore willing to guarantee the Bank Loan and to provide direct grant
assistance to the municipal government for implementation of the Project. For the EMC, the GoLI's MoF
would pass on the funds received from the Bank (US $200,000) to the MoEP (Siauliai and Panevezys
Regional Environmental Protection Office).
2.23          For the WWIC, the GoLI would provide the funds received from the Bank (US $6.0
million) directly to SW in US dollars at the same fixed interest rate as provided to the Borrower by the
Bank. SW would repay the subsidiary loan in 10 years, with a grace period of 4 years. The onlending
would be The SW together with the MS would enter into a project agreement with the Bank. A condition
of effectiveness of the Bank Loan is that a subsidiary is executed by GoLI and SW (para 6.6c).
2.24          The lack of a mark-up for onlending should be viewed as a means of GoLI supporting
major deferred investments in rehabilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and critical major capital
investments in modern water and wastewater treatment facilities, allowing these companies to become
capable of developing into effective self-financing organizations. In its current state, SW is not yet able
to raise money for its investments on the commercial market5, thus no displacement of market borrowing
is occurring. In the longer term (by year 2001), once the utility becomes fully operational and financially
autonomous, it would be able to raise its own funds for additional system expansions and treatment plant
upgrades.
5      Current commercial market rates for long-term lending are greatly distorted in Lithuania.



- 22 -
G. Procurement
2.25         During negotiations, it was agreed that all goods, works and services to be financed from
the loan proceeds would be procured in accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines for Procurement '
(January, 1995) including amendments as of the loan signing date, using the Bank standard bidding
documents. Consulting Services would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for "Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency" (August 1981),
including amendments as of the loan signing date (para 6.4b).
2.26         The laws and regulations governing public procurement procedures and the commercial
practices in Lithuania have been reviewed by the Bank. The review found that competitive practices are
increasingly being used in Lithuania both in the public and private sectors. The Bank is assisting the
Government in developing the legal and institutional framework for public procurement.
2.27         A "General Procurement Notice" containing information about bidding opportunities (for
procurement on the basis of International Competitive Bidding) has been submitted for publication in the
"Development Business" in accordance with paras. 2.7 and 2.8 of the Bank Guidelines for Procurement,
January 1995.
2.28         Cofinancing would be parallel, thus procurement for non-Bank financed sub-components
would be carried out in accordance with procurement regulations of the respective financier. The PIU
would carry out the Bank financed procurement for both the WWIC and the EMC. The division between
goods and works would be determined in the detailed design of the Project sub-components. Detailed
design would be carried out as a first task by the PIU. Procurement for Bank financed activities would be
undertaken in the following manner:
(a)   Internatiorsal Competitive Bidding (ICB). All Bank-funded contracts for goods which are
estimated to cost more than US $260,000 equivalent per contract would be procured
following ICB The Borrower would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. One
supply and erect contract would be awarded for civil works and supply of necessary goods
and equipment for the Birute water treatment plant (about US $5.3 million). One contract
would be awarded for pipes for the raising main in the new wastewater treatment plant
(about US $1.50 million).
(b)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Procedures for NCB would be used for contracts for
works under US $120,000. ICB should be used for contracts above that amount. It is
anticipated that only one contract for works (about US $120,000) would be awarded under
NCB.
(c)   International Shopping and National Shopping (IS and NS). Procedures for IS and
NS would be used for procurement of smaller contracts up to US $260,000 and
US $50,000 respectively for the WWIC because the cost of ICB would outweigh possible
price advantages. It is expected that components such as water pumps would be procured
through IS. NS procedures would be used for procurement of office equipment and
vehicles for the PIU. Contracts awarded under IS procedures for the WWIC (totaling
approximately US $260,000) would be based on comparing price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from two eligible countries in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts awarded under NS procedures (totaling approximately US $85,000) would be
based on comparing price quotations from at least three local suppliers. For the EMC, IS



- 23 -
would be used for contracts up to US $100,000. Two contracts would be procured for the
EMC through IS and would include monitoring and laboratory equipment (totaling
approximately US $150,000);
(d)     Sole Source Procurement.  Procurement of spare parts for the water supply system
rehabilitation (about US $100,000) would be through direct contracting as the spare parts
are anticipated to be available only from very specialized suppliers; and
(d)     Consultant Services. Consultant support would be procured for the PIU and training and
technical assistance to the Siauliai Regional Environmental Protection Office (totaling
approximately US $490,000). Requested consultant services would include support for
the preparation of bidding documents, evaluation, training, and construction supervision.
Potential candidates would be short listed and selected on a competitive basis or through
sole source contracting when appropriate, according to Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981) and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Hiring would
be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Table 2.3 gives a summary presentation of procurement arrangements. A detailed presentation of all
procurement arrangements can be found in Tables 4 and 5 in Annex 5.
Table 2.3: Procurement Arrangements (US $ Million)
Total
Project Element                                     ICB       Other          N.B.F       Cost
A. WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPONENT
(WWIC)
Project Implementation Unit            0.42    1,2    0.24        0.66
0a2                       Q.42
Water Supply   5.31       0.36    3.4                5.67
Wastewater and Sewerage Rehabilitation             0.12    5      2.91       3.03
QA.                       0.10
New Wastewater Treatment Plant   1.48                       8.80      10.28
QL2                                  0A2
Technical Assistance and Training           0.052   6       1.31       1.36
0a52
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
COMPONENT (EMC)
Regional Environmental Monitoring              0.25    7,8    0.60       0.85
0.20                      0.20
Environmental Protection Activities in the Upper
Lielupe River Basin                            1.00       1.00
TOTAL                                               6.78       1.20          14.86      22.85
[BRD financed                                      02        LiL                       62
underlined nubers M itls = IBRD loan financed portion        Consultant Guidelines = US $ million   0.34
N.B.F - Not Bank Financed                                     2 National Shopping - US S million   0.08
3International Shopping - US $ million   0.26
4Direct Contracting - US $ million   0.10
National Competitive Bidding - US $ million   0.12
' Sole Source/Indiv. - US S million   0.052
International Shopping - US $ million   0.150
'Sole Source/lndv. - US S million   0.10
total  1.20



- 24 -
2.29         Personnel from SW have participated in a procurement training course, organized by the
Bank, in May, 1995 in Vilnius. A World Bank Procurement Specialist provided an overview of Bank's
procurement practices during appraisal. Additional procurement advice would be provided to the
Borrower, SW and the REPO before loan effectiveness. The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to
carry out the Bank's procurement procedures would be strengthened through ongoing training, the use of
Standard Bidding Documents, and provision of international procurement expertise for the PIU, financed
under the proposed Loan.
2.30         Procurement Review. As the number of Bank financed contracts is small, and the borrower
has limited experience with Bank procurement procedures, prior review would apply to all contracts for
goods, works and consultants.
2.31         Procurement Monitoring. Procurement data would be collected and recorded by the PIU
for: (a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (b) comprehensive quarterly
reports to the Bank by the Borrower; and (c) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts. A computerized procurement
management system would be installed by the PIU.
H. Disbursements
2.32         To facilitate Project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
a major commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US $500,000 representing about four months
of average expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stage of the project, the
initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US $250,000. When the aggregate
disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of US $1,000,000, the initial allocation may be
increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US $500,000 by submitting the relevant application for
withdrawal. At the request of the Borrower, and based on Project needs, the Bank would make an initial
deposit or deposits into the Special Account up to the amount of the authorized allocation. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has
been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow
the standard Bank procedure. Monthly bank statements of the special account which have been reconciled
by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests. The terms and conditions of the
establishment and operation of the Special Account were agreed during negotiations (para 6. Ib).
2.33         Training in disbursements would be provided to relevant staff of the PIU. The PIU is
expected to benefit from experience gathered by the Klaipeda Environment Project PIU. Disbursement
advice is also available from the Bank's Regional Mission in Riga.
2.34         The proposed Loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of four fiscal years (1997-
2000) with an estimated closing date in June 2000. Annual estimated disbursements are shown in
Table 2.4. A financing plan by disbursement category is shown in Annex 5, Table 6. An estimated
schedule of disbursement is shown in Annex 5, Table 7.



- 25 -
Table 2.4: Disbursement By Bank Fiscal Year
US $ million
Bank Fiscal Year            1996  1922   1998   1922   20
Annual                      0.11   1.00   2.27   2.68   0.14
Cumulative                  0.11   1.11   3.38   6.06   6.20
Cumulative % Total           2%    18%   55%    98%   100%
2.35         The proceeds of the Bank Loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a)    For goods: 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local ex-factory expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b)    For works: 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures; and
(c)    For consultancy services and training: 100% of expenditures.
2.36         Disbursement requests would be prepared and submitted to the Bank directly by the PIU.
Copies of requests would be sent to the MoF. All cofinancing is parallel, not joint. Thus all confinancers
would manage their own disbursements.
2.37         Disbursements would be made against standard Bank documentation. The documentation
to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for review by Bank supervision missions and
verification by external audits. Disbursement requests would be fully documented except for expenditures
under contracts for goods and equipment valued at less than US $260,000 equivalent and contracts for
services valued at less than US $100,000 equivalent for firms and less than US $50,000 equivalent for
individuals, where statements of expenditure (SOE's) may be used. The minimum size of application for
payments directly from the Loan Account and issuance of special commitments is 20% of the current
Special Account authorized allocation.
I. Accounts and Audits
2.38         It was agreed during negotiations that the Special Account would be audited in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelinesfor Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank"
(March 1982) (para 6. Ic). It was also agreed that SW would have its records, accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, and that such audits and copies of its financial statements would be
furnished to the Bank, no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para 6.2). The audit



- 26 -
reports would contain separate opinions on: (a) compliance by implementing agencies with all financial
covenants under the Bank Loan; and (b) the statements of expenditure. It is expected that a local branch
of a private, international, commercial auditor, in association with a local auditing firm if available, would
carry out the audits, and this arrangement is considered acceptable. Separate project accounts for the EMC
would be kept and submitted for audit at the same time as the WWIC accounts.
2.39          The PIU and the local EMC Project Coordinator, would prepare semi-annual descriptive
and financial reports on each sub component, objective, and Project activity (beginning from the date of
Loan Effectiveness). An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be carried out according to Bank
Guidelines.
2.40         Project performance indicators would be monitored by the implementing agencies in
accordance with methodology acceptable to the Bank as described in Annex 1.
J. Environmental Screening
2.41         Preparation of the proposed Project include environmental studies consistent with the
requirements of the GoLI and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment." In accordance with these procedures, an environmental review for the WWIC has been
prepared by "Scanvironment" consistent with the requirements for a category "B" project (Annex 6).
Supplemental environmental reviews would be prepared as part of the detailed planning process for
activities supported under the EMC. Representatives of the Siauliai REPO and the Siauliai Municipal
Environment Office have participated in the feasibility study process and in the activities of the pre-
appraisal and appraisal missions. The environmental reviews for the EMC would be subject to evaluation
by the MoEP, the REPO and Bank environmental specialists. Attached as Annex 7 is the Bank's
Environmental Data Sheet.
2.42         The proposed Project would not involve involuntary resettlement and is not anticipated to
have an impact on known archaeological or historical sites in Siauliai or other Project areas. The old and
new wastewater treatment plants and sludge disposal facilities are at already established sites.
K. Water Resources Management Policy
2.43         Water Resources Management Policy. In recent years several major studies have been
prepared concerning environmental aspects of water resources management in Lithuania in conjunction
with the Baltic Sea Environment Program. These include the comprehensive "Pre-Feasibility Study of the
Lithuanian Coast and Nemunas River Basin" prepared by a joint Lithuanian, Danish and Swedish team,
complemented by studies in support of the "Lielupe River Project" undertaken by a joint Latvian,
Lithuanian, and Swedish team. In addition, a detailed national study concerning the management of
agricultural run-off has been completed by a joint Lithuanian and Swedish team. A comprehensive review
of water quality monitoring requirements has been prepared by a team of Lithuanian and American
specialists. The activities proposed under the Project have been identified as priority investment actions
under both the Baltic Sea Environment Program and the Lithuanian PER. They would have a positive
impact on water resources management through strengthening institutional capacity and improving water
quality in the Upper Lielupe River Basin.



- 27 -
2.44        The proposed Project has been prepared in a manner consistent with the recommendations
under the Water Resources Management Policy of the Bank. It would support the objectives of the Water
Resources Management Policy by: (a) developing the "International Lielupe River Commission" as a
management organization; (b) strengthening SW and supporting its development into an administratively
and financially autonomous utility; (c) promoting full cost recovery for water and wastewater services; (d)
preparing a plan to control the discharge of industrial wastewaters in Siauliai; and (e) establishing a
practical water quality monitoring systems at regional and local levels. The responsible implementation
agencies for the WWIC and EMC (MoEP, Panevezys and Siauliai REPOs, SW, and SMEO) are established
organizations with legal authority and responsibility for water resources management functions.
2.45         With regard to non-point source pollution management the MoEP intends to support the
implementation of the recommendations from the 1993 Lithuanian-Swedish study, in cooperation with the
Ministry of Agriculture. Water quality monitoring efforts would be based on implementation of the
recommendations of the recently completed Lithuanian-USEPA study.
L. International Waters Issues
2.46         A legal notification concerning the proposed Project by MoEP to the Latvian Ministry of
Environment and Regional Development has been carried out in accordance with the Operational Directive
7.50, "Projects on International Waterways". The Government of Latvia (GoLA) has expressed its strong
support for the proposed Project, and its intent to cooperate fully for its successful implementation.
M. Participatory Approach
2.47         The proposed Project was prepared with the direct participation of the MoEP, Panevezys
and Siauliai REPOs, MS, Siauliai City Council, SMEO and municipal health authorities. A series of
workshops were held at the offices of SW at which interested parties reviewed and discussed the findings
of the consultants and local experts. A similar process was used during Bank identification, pre-appraisal,
and appraisal missions in which meetings with up to 40 participants were held to review the scope and
objectives of the proposed Project. These meetings have been the subject of significant coverage by
regional and local press, radio and television. In addition, meetings have also been conducted by the Bank,
at the request of MoEP, with representatives of the Latvian Ministry of Environment and Regional
Development and the Jelgava Regional Environmnental Protection Committee to review current
transboundary pollution impacts and to assess benefits from planned pollution control measures to be
supported under the proposed Project.



III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1          Project Coordination. The GoLI's MoEP would provide overall coordination to the
Project, coordinating actions of funding organizations and local implementing agencies and managing
interactions with the Bank. The coordination would be carried out by the MoEP's Economics and Foreign
Relations Department where the MoEP has appointed a Project Coordinator to perform this task.
3.2          Project Steering Committee. To facilitate implementation of the proposed Project and to
promote communications between the various parties of the proposed Project, the MoEP would establish
a Project Steering Committee (PSC). The PSC would provide general guidance and it is anticipated that
the PSC would include representatives of MoEP and MoF, the Environmental Advisor to the Government,
the Environmental Advisor to the Nature Protection Committee of the Parliament, staff of the Ministry of
Urban Affairs and Construction, MS, and SW, and representatives of local government authorities where
environmental management activities would be undertaken. Draft terms of reference for the PSC were
discussed during appraisal (Annex 4B).
3.3           Project Implementation Unit. Implementation of the WWIC would be delegated to SW.
The director of SW would be responsible for supervision of all Project supported activities concerning
water and wastewater. The EMC would be coordinated and supervised by the MoEP. Implementation of
this component would be delegated to the Regional Environmental Protection Office's (REPO) in Siauliai
and Panevezys, Siauliai Municipal Environment Office, and other local authorities. A local EMC
coordinator has been nominated by the MoEP. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), located within SW
would be established. The PIU would carry out all implementation and supervision of the WWIC. For
the EMC, the PIU would provide assistance in procurement, disbursement, and project administration.
The PIU would be assisted, as required, by international consultants to support the preparation of technical
specifications, bidding documents, tendering, bid evaluation, contract awards, supervision of civil works
and equipment installation, and follow-up activities. Draft terms of reference for the PIU were discussed
during appraisal (Annex 4C). Establishment of the PIU within SW with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, with staff that shall include a director, an accountant, an English speaking assistant
whose qualifications and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank, and a consultant to the PIU
providing project management and procurement advice, whose qualifications and terms of reference are
acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition for Loan effectiveness (para 6.6d).
3.4          Project implementation is anticipated to begin in May 1996 and would be carried out over
a four-year period. The estimated disbursement period is two years shorter than the Bank's average for
similar projects. A number of contracts are anticipated to be ready for bidding by the time of Loan
effectiveness. Bank experience with implementation of environmental management and small-scale civil
works projects are limited in Central and Eastern Europe; however, given the small size and limited scope
of the proposed Project, the current advanced state of completion of major elements of the required civil
works for the new wastewater treatment plant, and assessment of the implementation capacity in Siauliai,
a four-year implementation appears reasonable.
3.5          In the case of the EMC, this time frame is justified by the successful negotiation and
signing of the joint Latvian and Lithuanian agreement establishing the "International Lielupe River
Commission," the three years of experience gained by the two countries in cooperative data collection
under the Swedish supported "Lielupe River Project", and success to date in cooperative agricultural run-
off management activities undertaken with support from Denmark and Sweden.



- 29 -
B. Project Implementing Agencies
3.6          Ministry of Environmental Protection. The MoEP has adopted a decentralized approach
to environmental management through a network of REPO which provide local level support for the
implementation of its policies and programs. The regional offices are supported by recently established
municipal units in a number of selected cities, including Siauliai. An assessment of project implementation
capacity of the REPOs in Siauliai and Panevezys and the Siauliai Municipal Environment Office was
carried out during appraisal causing institutional support and strengthening activities to be included in the
EMC.
3.7          Siauliai Water. The MoEP has appointed SW to implement the WWIC. This approach is
fully consistent with the policy of the MoEP to support the decentralization of environmental management
responsibilities to local authorities. In the past, municipal water and wastewater services in Lithuania have
been provided through state owned enterprises. Since 1991, the management of these enterprises were
delegated from the central government to the municipal governments. The ownership of the assets
remained with the state. In March, 1995, as a part of the GoLI's broad strategy to decentralize municipal
services, the ownership of all water and wastewater assets were transferred to the managing municipalities
in accordance with recently passed national legislation, SW was subsequently established in March 1995
as a 100% municipally-owned, limited joint stock company responsible for providing municipal water and
wastewater services.
3.8          Siauliai Water is managed by a Director appointed by MS. In addition, MS appoints the
members of an internal Management Board of SW consisting of executives of SW and the Chief
Environmentalist of the MS. The Management Board is chaired by the Director. SW's annual budget and
tariffs were prepared by the Director, presented for the approval of six different committees of the
Municipality before submitted for voting in the City Council. Since September 28, 1995, as a condition
for negotiation of the proposed Loan, the City Council transferred the tariff setting authority to the
Executive Committee of MS. During negotations, agreement was reached, that except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the responsibility for setting water and wastewater tariffs would be maintained with the
Executive Committee of the MS, which includes the Mayor, Vice Mayor and six Chairmen of the Standing
Committees of the Siauliai City Council (para 6.3a). Currently SW lacks a supervisory board or board of
directors that is independent from the utility and that represent the interests of the public/owner. A
condition for loan effectiveness is that a Supervisory Board of SW with composition and functions
acceptable to the Bank has been created, and SW Statutes have been amended in accordance with
applicable laws of the Borrower and in manner satisfactory to the Bank to reflect the creation of such
Supervisory Board (para 6. 6e). The Supervisory Board would be responsible at least for approving the SW
annual budget and for reviewing the tariff proposal for the Executive Committee of the Municipality. The
Action Plan further defines and clarifies the division of decision making powers between the City Council,
the Executive Committee of the Municipality, the Supervisory Board and SW.
C. Project Supervision
3.9          The proposed Project would be supervised by Bank staff in accordance with a proposed
supervision plan summarized in Annex 8. Representatives from MoEP and the donors (Sida, Finnish
Ministry of Environment, and the Norwegian Pollution Authority) have informed the Bank that they would
participate in joint supervision missions. Supervision of the proposed Project would be particularly intense



- 30 -
during the first two years when considerable input would be required for: (a) procurement aspects of the
WWIC; and (b) preparation and initial implementation of activities under the EMC.
3.10         A mid-term review would be conducted around April 1998 to evaluate overall Project
progress including progress towards the SW's Action Plan and to assess the development and
implementation of an amended tariff structure (see terms of reference, Annex 4D). During the mid-term
review, adjustments would be made in the implementation schedule, if deemed necessary, to improve SW's
management capacity, and review the long-term tariff rates based on the findings of the tariff study.



IV. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF "SIAULIAI WATER"
A. Past Performance and Present Position
4.1           Overview. The Municipality of Siauliai expects its water and wastewater utility, SW, to
develop into a financially sound municipal enterprise, able to provide services to its customers in a cost
effective manner. At the same time the City Council has to develop its own Corporate Governance
requirements which balance municipal interests, social interests, oversight of public funds, and also permits
the management to exercise full professional judgement. In turn, in order to develop into an efficiently run
utility, SW needs to improve its technology and financial management through undertaking complementary
investment, cost reduction and institutional strengthening activities.
4.2           Central to the approach of institutional strengthening in the proposed Project is the
development of a formal "twinning arrangement" on a contractual basis with an experienced water and
wastewater utility. In SW there is significant potential for improving operational efficiency at the technical
and managerial level. The Twinning Arrangement would assist SW to identify and realize potential cost
savings. SW and MS has also shown interest in exploring alternative ways to provide the services in a
most cost effective manner. Support for a review of various alternatives is included in the proposed
Project. To assure full transparency in potential changes in management of the water and wastewater
services, during negotiations, it was agreed that SW shall not implement any substantial management,
structural or operative changes without prior approval of the Bank (para 6.3b).
4.3           Past Performance. SW's financial statements for the years 1992-1994 show that although
the utility has managed to cover costs, there has been a deterioration in financial performance. Pre-tax
income as a percentage of revenue, has decreased from 35 % in 1992 to 20% in 1994, and is expected to
further decline to 5% in 1995. This decline can be explained by: (a) the significantly reduced local
industrial activities that has caused a drop in the volume of produced water and treated sewage6; (b) tariffs
that have not been adequately adjusted for inflation; (c) increased charges in depreciation due to inflation
indexing of the assets; and (d) real input price increases (energy and material). As a result, the working
ratio7 has increased from 0.63 in 1992 to 0.66 in 1994, and the operating ratio8 has increased from 0.65
to 0.80 during the same time period.
4.4           This declining trend in performance is expected to continue through 1995 with the working
ratio deteriorating further to 0.75 and the operating ratio to 0.91. The primary reason for the continuing
deterioration in financial performance in 1995, is a continuing reduction in volume of water and waste
water billed, coupled with a 11 % real decline in water prices and a 9 % decline in waste water prices from
1994 to 1995. Also, staff costs have increased by 18 % in real terms between 1994 and 1995. A summary
of SW's financial performance is presented in Table 4.1.
6      Total billed water and wastewater volume, decreased approximately 27% from 1992 to 1994.
7      Working ratio = operating expenses divided by operating revenue.
8      Operating ratio = operating expenses, depreciation, and interest expenses divided by operating revenue



- 32 -
Table 4.1: Siauliai Water - Income Statement 1992-1994 (actual9), 1995 (estimated)
Mid-95 Constant US$ 000       1992      1993          1994          1995
Tariffs
- Water (US$/m3)             0.72      0.30          0.22          0.20
- Waste Water                 0.60     0.28          0.19          0.17
(US$/m3)
Operating Revenues           23,318     7,592         5,134        4,382
Operating Costs              13,900     5,156         3,119        3,074
Environmental Charges         785       389           260          228
Depreciation                  481       187           691          691
OPERATING PROFITS             8,151     1,860         1,065         389
Provision for Bad Debts         -       -             -             178
Interest costs                 93       19            59           0.18
NET INCOME BEFORE             8,058     1,841         1,006        211
TAXES
Taxes                         2,634     593           146           109
NET PROFIT AFTER              5,423     1,248         860           102
TAXES
WORKING RATIO                 0.63      0.73          0.66         0.75
OPERATING RATIO               0.65      0.76          0.80         0.91
Source: SW annual accounts and mission estimates (1995).
4.5          During the historic period reviewed, SW's ability to service debt is not relevant
because GoLI has provided financing for the capital investment program in the form of grants.
Currently, the enterprise has only small levels of short term bank loans, which will be repaid in 1995.
B. Tariff Levels and Revenues
4.6          All customers have the same base rates for their water and waste water services. As of
June, 1995 the water tariff was adjusted to 0.78 LT/m3 (US $0.20), and the wastewater tariff to 0.69 LT/m 3
9     SW's historical financial statements should not be utilized to judge past financial performance, or be
compared with the current financial position.



- 33 -
in 1995 (US $0.17). Industry is charged for their wastewater in accordance to their pollution loads by
volume. Currently, a Value Added Tax (VAT) of 18% is levied on industry and budget customers'.
Effective January 1, 1996 household customers will also pay the VAT. The tariff structure is in a
volumetric form and does not include any standing charges or incremental charges for higher levels of
consumption. The tariff structure needs to be reviewed in detail. During negotiations it was agreed that
SW would carry out a water and wastewater tariff study by October 30, 1996 in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank with assistance of a consultant satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 4D) and
take all action required to implement the recommendations by June 30, 1997 (para 6.3c). In the
institutional strengthening component of the proposed project, assistance for tariff planning and financial
operations would be provided based on the results of the tariff study.
4.7           SW's tariff policy has been aimed at cost recovery as granted by legislation. Analysis show
that the current water and sewerage tariffs are inadequate to cover all necessary cash and non-cash
expenses such as: (a) planned maintenance; (b) a provision for bad and doubtful debts; and (c) depreciation
reflecting replacement cost accounting. The appraisal estimate of total required tariff increases to cover
total cash and non-cash costs is approximately 12-15%" in real terms each year for the next three years
whereafter, full cost recovery would be achieved. During negotiations it was agreed that except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the level of the water and wastewater tariffs be increased by at least 15 % in
real terms by March 15, 1996, in accordance with methodology acceptable to the Bank (para. 6. 3d).
C. Billing and Collection
4.8           Consumers are divided into residential, industrial and budget customers. The system has
4,700 customers (80% residential, 16% industrial and 4% budget) which are all metered'2, though not all
meters are functioning.
4.9            Collection: Collection is currently not a major problem. The 1994 average collection
period, defined as annual collections over annual billings, is estimated at between 45 - 60 days which is
normal for a water utility. SW currently utilizes the services of collection agencies. State-owned apartment
blocks, still under state administration, are responsible for most of the outstanding payments. SW claims
that this is largely because of the legal difficulty they have in disconnecting the apartment blocks' services
for non-payment. SW penalizes delinquent accounts at an interest charge of 0.2% per day for outstanding
bills exceeding 40 days for individual and budget customers, and 10 days for industrial customers.
Disconnection of water services is effected after a number of warnings. Cooperative apartment blocks are
fairly current in their payment, reportedly because of both the interest penalty and the risk of
disconnection.
10     Schools, hospitals, other municipal establishments and commercial non-industrial establishments.
11     provided there is no devaluation during this period which would result in large real increases of energy costs.
12     Block houses have one meter at the 'entrance", thus few individual apartments are metered. Meters for
industrial and budget subscribers are read by SW personnel on a monthly basis. Individual subscribers are
responsible for recording their meter information in a coupon book provided to them by SW. This
information is verified by SW on a quarterly basis.



- 34 -
4.10          Records for all subscriber accounts in SW are currently maintained by hand, making it
difficult to analyze outstanding accounts. The utility is making significant progress towards computerizing
all aspects of billing and collections. The computerization is progressing slowly due to lack of funds for
additional software and hardware purchases, and the low levels of computer knowledge among enterprise
employees and workers. The proposed project would include support for information technology and
adequate computer skills training.
D. Accounting System
4.11          The financial statements continue to be based on the former Soviet Union cash based
accounting system. External auditing according to normally accepted international practices has not been
made, although municipal officials undertake an annual review of the accounts. State officials also make
an annual tax inspection. The SW Action Plan will prescribe the transition to an internationally recognized
accounting system.
4.12          SW's historical financial statements should not be utilized to judge past financial
performance, or be compared with the current financial position. Assets are revalued using an inflation
index as opposed to a replacement cost procedure. The tariff study would address this issue in more detail.
4.13          The accounting is also undergoing computerization, but is still mainly carried out manually.
The project supports the installation of a Management Information System (MIS), which would be linked
with both operational budget planning and a strategic planning system.
E. Future Financial Performance
4.14          Financial projections show that SW is capable of servicing a total debt of approximately
US $6.0 million. The projections are built on recommended real tariff adjustments which would
achieve the following financial ratios.
debt service coverage ratio'3 above 1.5 each year;
working ratio of 60% or below; and
-      operating ratio below 85 %.
A summary of the financial projections are presented in Table 4.2.
13    defined as Net Profit after taxes, add back depreciation and interest, divided by interest payments and
principal repayments.



Table 4.2: Financial Projections
(Constanit Mid 1995 US Dollars)                simald       | -- -----  ------------------------------ Projected-------------------------------
19951      1996        1997        1998       1999        2000       2005        2010
Water Tariffs (US$/m3)                                   0.20        0.22     * 0.26        0.29        0.29       0.29        0.29        0.29
Waste Waler Tariffs (US$/m3)                             0.17        0.20        0.23       0.26        0.26       0.26        0.26        0.26
Percentagc Real Increase                                  0%         15%         15%        12%          0%         0%          0%          0%
FPROFIT AND LOSS
Gross Revenue                                            4382        5019       5786        6508        6574       6640        7080        7562
Operating Cost                                           3302        3043       3255        3480        3250       3440        3468        3548
Gross Margin                                             1080        1976       2531        3029        3324       3200        3612        4014
Net Income After Taxes                                     97         457       .432         709         898        753        1158         923
( = annual relained eamings)
Working Ratio(l)                                         75%         61%        56%         53%         49%        52%         49%        47%
Operating Ratio (2)                                      91%         83%        85%         81%         78%        81%         76%        80%I
BALANCE SIIEET
Cummulative Cash                                          935        2156       3770        3729        4021       2982        3771        5169
Net Working Capital                                      1100       2382        4084        4130       4410        3403        4229        5676
Cash as % of Working Capital                            85%        91%         92%         90%        91%         88%         89%         91%
Net Fixed Assets                                      21,869      29,360      36,857     39,562      40,258      41,057      40,491     44,524
Long Term Debt                                              0       2903        5662        5923        6000       5000           0           0
Owner's Equity                                          22790       28412      34508       36302       36302      36302       36302       36302
of which Statutory Capital Reserve Fund                  48          72          95         132         179        219         482        756
as % of Owner's Equity                                0.2%        0.3%        0.3%       0.4%        0.5%        0.6%        1.3%E      2.1%
as % of Net Fixed Asset                               0.2%        0.2%        0.3%       0.3%        0.4%        0.5%        1.2%       1.7%
Return on Investment (%) (3)                              2 %         3%         3%          4 %         4%         4%          4%          3%
FLOW OF FUNDS                               1
Deht Service Coverage Ratio(4)                           5.42        7.76       5.17        6.00        6.63       2.00        3.12       129501
(I) Working Ratio = (Operating Costs + Environrmental Charges)/Total Revenues
(2) Operating Ratio = (Operating Cosis+Environmental Charges+Depreciation +Interest Costs)/Total Revenues
(3) Return on Investment = (Profit before Interest, Depreciation and Taxes)/ Net Fixed Assets + Net Working Capital



- 36 -
4.15          The proposed financing plan for SW would yield a debt-equity ratio which would not
exceed 20% during the project lifetime. Projections of SW's financial performance assume that its future,
outstanding long term debt obligation is only that owed to the Bank. The Bank loan is disbursed over a
four year period, at the end of which SW would have a long term debt obligation totaling US $6.0 million.
To insure financial stability, agreement was reached during negotiations that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SW would not incur any debt unless its net revenues"4, for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of such incurrence (or the twelve-month period prior to such incurrence, whichever is
greater) would be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements offor any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be incurred. (para 6. 3e). It was also agreed that SW shall not
declare any dividend or make any other distribution with respect to its share capital prior to December 31,
2001 (para 6.3J).
4.16          In the past SW was expected to pay Profit Tax (retained by MS) amounting to 20% to 26%
of profits earned. In view of up-front equity investments it is anticipated that from 1994 onwards, MS
would exempt SW from such taxes. During negotiations, it was agreed that MS would exempt SWfrom
income tax payable to MS on SW's net profit for eachfiscal year commencing with the fiscal year 1995 until
and including fiscal year 2001 (para 6.3g). The financial projections assume that SW will continue to be
exempt of such taxes. However, with tariff increases of 15%, 15% and 12% in 1996, 1997 and 1998,
respectively, SW would be able to pay profit taxes after year 2001, and still be able to meet the financial
targets.
4.17          The water and wastewater operations are expected to be financially sustaining and the
tariffs are expected to provide full cost recovery, provided that the revenue projections are fulfilled. This
would require that: (a) water and wastewater tariffs are periodically adjusted to maintain achievement of
the targeted operating ratio and full debt service cost recovery; (b) accounts receivables maintained at or
below current levels; (c) adequate levels of maintenance are provided; and (d) operating efficiency and cost
reductions are achieved through the institutional strengthening assistance. The estimated real tariff
adjustments over the 1996-1998 period are as presented in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Expected Water and Wastewater Tariff Increases (real)
Annual Increases
Year                 Real                 Nominal
1996                 15%                     45%
1997                 15%                     40%
1998                 12%                     32%
4.18          The above projected tariff increases, accumulated over a three year period would account
for a real increase of 48 %. These targeted increases over the next three years, are sufficient to enable SW
14    defined as Operating Revenues - Direct Operating Costs + (Provisions for bad debts and taxes - taxes)



- 37 -
to meet the targeted levels of flnancial performance. With the projected tariff increases SW will be under
pressure to maintain and reduce the targeted levels of costs so as to be able to meet the projected working
ratio, operating ratio, debt service coverage ratio and return on investment.
4.19           During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, SW would adjust its tariffs so as to maintain for each of its fiscal vears, a ratio of total operating
expenses'5 to total operating revenues16 not higher than 85% (para 6.3h).
G. Tariff Affordability
4.20           The real tariff increases translated into an estimated nominal increases of 41 % in 1996. In
the case of Domestic customers, there is a possibility that they, as with industrial and public customers,
will also have to pay a VAT of 18%, effective January 1, 1996. Thus, the net increase in tariffs for the
Domestic Group of customers in 1996, could be equivalent to 67% in nominal terms.
4.21           Given the estimated real tariff increase of approximately 48 % over a period of three years,
adding the effect of the new VAT of 18 % for Domestic Customers, and a real income growth, the water
service tariffs would correspond to an average of approximately 4.5 % of the average household income.
In general, water and wastewater tariffs consisting of 3-5 % of average household income has been
considered acceptable in other Bank financed water and wastewater projects. Affordability and the
necessity of extending the social safety net to the lowest income categories was reviewed and discussed in
detail with MS during appraisal. A mitigation plan for tariff affordabiliy has been prepared by the MS. MS
intends to support its approximately 12,000 poorest citizens (defined as pensioners, disabled and family's
with 4 or more children) in mitigating any hardship caused by tariff increases due to the proposed Project.
MS intends to finance this from its own budget, allocated into a special fund and administer it in the same
manner as support for heating bills. Assumptions underlying the affordability estimates are presented in
Annex 10.
H. Financial Risks and Mitigation
4.22           The key factors affecting SW's financial sustainability are: (a) tariff levels for water and
waste water; (b) direct operating costs; (c) debt service burden; (d) depreciation; and (f) foreign exchange
risks. In addition to the Base Case financial scenario presented in Annex 9, the analysis includes sensitivity
of the financial parameters to various tariff levels. Given the political sensitivity of water and waste water
tariffs, there is always a risk that tariffs would not be increased in real terms. Under such circumstances
as shown in the annex, SW would be unable to meet any of the required levels of financial pararneters, and
in the years when the debt repayment on the World Bank loan starts, the debt service coverage ratio would
15     defined as direct operating costs including staff and social costs, energy and material costs which also
incorporate maintenance costs, environmental charges, depreciation, and interest on long term loans, short
term loans, other financial costs.
16     defined as revenues from water and waste water bills and related services and fees, interest income earned
from delayed payments and the compulsory reserve fund.



- 38 -
decline below 1.5. To mitigate the risk that tariffs would not be increased in real terms, during
negotiations the tariff increase program, given in Table 4.3, would be agreed with GoLI and MS.
4.23          Real increases in operating costs could risk SW's financial health especially during the next
few years (Annex 9). The mitigation of cost increases lies primarily in the control of SW. However, cost
control, unless systematized and well defined, can be ineffective. The Action Plan of SW would include
the key actions to be taken to ensure that cost control will remain a high priority for SW management. It
should be noted that even though the number of employees in SW is significantly higher than in comparable
western utilities, the relative ratio between the various operational costs (staff, energy etc.) is quite normal.
In the Base Case financial scenario for SW, it is assumed that for the future years, total staff costs would
remain constant at 1995 levels in order to attract more skilled workers. Energy costs are expected to
increase by about 4% in real terms in 1996 and by 15% in 1997. The latter increase is because SW will
commission the new Waste Water Treatment Plant, a significant sub-component of the proposed Project.
4.24          SW is currently projected to be able to meet all its debt repayment obligations, except
under the scenario of zero real increases in tariffs. In the Base Case scenario, the debt repayment period
(for SW) has been reduced from 20 years including 5 years grace to 10 years of debt repayment with four
years grace. SW can (with the real tariff increases projected in Table 4.3) meet the required debt service
coverage ratio of 1.5 and above. Given the fact that repaying a hard currency loan over a long period of
time, exposes the entity to foreign exchange risks, it is recommended that SW repay the long term debt in
a shorter period. Institutional strengthening would help mitigate the above risks.
4.25          Utilization of a Financial Rate of Return is not appropriate, as it would by default be
determined by the tariffs. Return on investment defined as gross profit before interest and taxes is
approximately 4%, keeping in mind that around 70% of the capital investments are grant. However, the
real rate of return of the proposed Project is higher as additional Project benefits are externalities which
cannot easily be quantified nor incorporated into SW's financial analysis.  These include direct
environmental benefits and indirect financial benefits to the regional economy from reduced health costs,
reduced transboundary water pollution, improved environment quality, enhanced aesthetic conditions, and
increased domestic tourism.



V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1          The proposed Project is a necessary step for the GoLI to fulfill its obligations under the
international treaty of HELCOM. Without the proposed Project, they would not be able to reduce water
pollution originating from Lithuania, as agreed in the treaty. The benefits from the proposed Project are
considered to be not only national, but regional and it has been included in the country's Public Investment
Program, endorsed by the Parliament. The direct economic benefits of the proposed Project are difficult
to quantify. The tangible benefits include positive impact on health, implying lower health care costs, and
positive impact on tourism, implying increased tourism revenues. In addition, short term direct benefits,
include employment opportunities for Lithuanian technical experts, skilled workers and laborers during the
construction period of the proposed Project. The non tangible benefits are more difficult to capture in
monetary terms, although it is clear that the net development impact from the proposed Project is clearly
positive.
5.2          The physical indicators below provide an indication of the overall positive impact of the
proposed Project. Project performance indicators would be monitoried by the implementing agencies as
described in Annex 1.
(a)   Improved Water Quality and Reduction of Transboundary Follution. The water quality of
the Upper Lielupe River Basin would increase significantly through reduced discharges of
organic material, phosphorous and nitrogen into the Kulpe River, thus preserving natural
resources. The proposed Project would support the commitments of the GoLI, to fulfill
the "HELCOM" recommendations by reducing the BOD level of wastewater discharged
at Siauliai from 90 mg/l to 15 mg/l. The discharge reductions would reduce transboundary
water pollution from Lithuania into Latvia within the basin and the Gulf of Riga;
(b)    Cost Effective Provision of Good Water and Wastewater Services in Siauliai. Siauliai
Water's organizational restructuring, technical assistance, and the proposed investments
would strengthen its' managerial efficiency, financial viability, service quality, and
capacity to plan and implement investments. The drinking water quality would be
improved through iron removal and softening. Full cost recovery through tariffs together
with metering would encourage water conservation, and water losses would be reduced
through leakage control and rehabilitation. A targeted social safety net, independent from
tariffs would minimize any negative impact of the proposed Project on the low income
households. At the technical level, the WWIC would provide opportunities for Lithuanian
experts to gain direct practical experience in the design, construction, operation, and
maintenance of the modern water and wastewater system. This process would allow for
effective transfer of technology;
(c)    Enhanced Regional Environmental Cooperation and Coordination. Regional environmental
cooperation would be improved through joint strengthening of the International Lielupe
River Basin Commission, and twinning arrangement between the Commission and an
international partner. The twinning arrangement would support the transfer of experience
and training of personnel in the complex issues related to basin management and provide
the basis for both short- and long-term cooperation with another management organization;



- 40 -
(d)     Aesthetic Improvements and Recreational Benefits. The Kulpe River (that runs through the
city of Siauliai and just by the "Hill of Crosses") would be transformed from a highly
polluted "septic ditch" to a more normal channel. Recreational use of large portions of the
western tributaries of the upper Lielupe River which are currently heavily polluted would
increase. The water quality would improve at the popular recreational beaches of the
Latvian tourist resort of Jurmala;
(e)     Better Evaluation of Environmental Problems and Management of Surface Water and
Regulatory Enforcement. A strengthened environmental monitoring capacity at the
regional and local levels would allow for better evaluation of problems and management
of surface waters and more effective regulatory enforcement, more accurate esti-mvio 1 an(I
collection of environmental fees and fines; and
(f)     Demonstration of Low Cost Control Measures for Agricultural Run-off. Model  ,N vities
for cost-effective pollution control activities at pig farms could be replicaleci ,t other
locations within the basin and in Lithuania, thus allowing for an incremental reduction of
pollution in the basin. Implementation of non-point source pollution control measures in
a model basin through extension activities, improved agricultural practices and low-cost
control measures, would provide an on-site location for the transfer of experience and the
training of farmers within the basin and strengthen the developing Baltic regioial network
of demonstration sites.
B. Project Risks and Sustainability
5.3             The sustainability of the proposed Project depend on the sense of project ownership of the
implementing parties. This has and will be promoted through close cooperation and a high degree of public
participation in the preparation and implementation of the proposed Project. There are a number of critical
variables for a positive net development impact. Table 5.1 presents the factors that are anticipated to
create the greatest risk for the proposed Project and the available mitigation measures.
Table 5.1. Project Risks and Mitigation Measures.
RISK                                              MITIGATION
OVERALL PROJECT
Implementation Delays. This is the Bank's fourth investment  Establishment of a strong PIU whose staff would receive
project in Lithuania since the initiation of lending operations  training in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures as
in 1992.  While the Project is within the management  an integral part of project implementation. The PIU would be
capabilities of the MoEP, MS and SW, the risk of delays in  supported  by  a  consultant,  experienced  in  project
project implementation exists due to inexperience and the  management.
complexities of compliance with Bank procedures for
procurement, accounting, and disbursement.
Cost Overruns. Construction costs may be underestimated   Project design has been based on conservative approaches to
because of the very  limited experience with  actual  cost estimation combined with the use of appropriate physical
implementation costs for water and wastewater improvements  and price contingencies.
in post-Soviet Lithuania, the volatility of local prices, and
previous lack of experience with construction activities
executed to international standards in this sector.



- 41 -
Foreign Exchange Risk. The Government of Lithuania will   Siauliai Water has no foreign exchange revenues and
onlend US $6.0 million to SW in US dollars. Since SW has  consequently bears a currency risk when borrowing in foreign
no foreign exchange revenues, it bears currency risk when it  currency. Under the agreed tariff setting formula, SW would
borrows in foreign exchange.                           pass on all cost of borrowing to the final consumers. SW's
cash flow is allowing for a relatively short repayment period
of the subsidiary loan from the Borrower to SW (10 years)
which would reduce the time during which SW is exposed to
the exchange risk.
Local Funding Availability. On the basis of previous Bank    Monthly disbursement requirements for local funding have
experience in Eastern Europe, there is a risk that the GoLl    been drafted for government and municipal contribution. Final
and MS may have problems with the timely provision of  disbursement schedules will be closely supervised during
funds required for local financing. This could be especially   project implementation. Meetings have been held with the
true in Lithuania where the local funding for projects is on    Ministry of Finance to review interim measures which can be
the basis of the 'retention of collected taxes" by the  used to bridge local tax collection shortfalls.
municipal government rather than as a "transfer of funds"
from the national government to the municipality.
WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPONENT
Technical Risk. Leakages from the water supply distribution  Network leakages would be addressed in the second phase of
network might continue and even increase due to insufficient  investments as other priorities have consumed currently
investments in network rehabilitation.                 available and affordable financing.
Institutional Risks. The political commitment and ability of  Adequate governance structure which includes effective owner
Siauliai Municipality to approve the required tariff adjustments  oversight of SW would facilitate approval of required tariff
as well as the ability of SW to collect tariff revenues from   adjustments. Support for institutional strengthening to SW to
consumers. In addition, over the medium-term, organizational  improve its financial management, billing and collection
restructuring is expected to result in a decrease in the number  practices would insure correct tariff calculations and efficient
of employees of SW. It is possible that this process could be  collection. Provisions to ensure that MS take the necessary
disrupted by the Siauliai City Council or employees of SW.   actions to adjust tariffs and improve efficiency are included in
the Project Agreement and the Action Plan. The MS has
drafted a mitigation plan for adverse effects on low income
households of tariff adjustments. Organizational restructuring
measures would be taken in a transparent manner with close
cooperation with the employees.
Financial Risk.  Financial risks for SW  are discussed
separately in Chapter IV.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Inadequate International Cooperation.  There could be  A well defined framework for routine cooperation will be
inadequate commnitment from  Lithuania and Latvia in  defined in the EMC implementation program. During Project
supporting the Lielupe River Basin Commission.         preparation, there have been direct consultations with the
Latvian Ministry of Environment and Regional Development
and the Jelgava Environmental Protection Committee to assure
they are fully informed of the scope and objectives of the
proposed Project and to assure that a framework is established
for regular working level meetings between representatives of
the two concerned ministries and key personnel from their
field offices within the drainage basin.
Local Institutional Coordination. Potential difficulties could  Implementation teams for each of the activities will be
arise in the coordination of activities between MoEP, MoF,  established with the support of the EMC Coordinator.
the two concerned REPOs, SMEO, local governments,
nongovernmental organizations and other parties.
GCmwmuity Resistance. Resistance from local authorities and  Cooperative design and public hearings would be utilized in
private landowners to proposed land use control measures and  the planning and implementation of proposed "demonstration"
other recommended actions to manage agriculture originating   activities with the managers and staff of the facilities.
pollution in the upper river basin.



VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1          During Loan negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the Borrower:
(a)   that if proposed grant financing for the EMC would not be confirmed by June 30,
1997, the GoLI would find alternative financing (para. 2.19);
(b)   the terms and conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special Account
(para. 2.32); and
(c)   that the Special Account would be audited in accordance with Bank's Guidelines,
(para. 2.38).
6.2          During Loan negotiations, it was agreed with Siauliai Water:
that it would have its company records, accounts, and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that such
audits and copies of its financial statements would be furnished to the Bank no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 2.38).
6.3          During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the Municipality of
Siauliai and Siauliai Water:
(a)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, that the responsibility for setting water and
wastewater tariffs would be maintained with the Executive Committee of the MS, which
includes the Mayor, Vice Mayor and six Chairmen of the Standing Committees of Siauliai
City Council (para 3.8);
(b)   that SW shall not implement any substantial management, structural or operational changes
without prior approval of the Bank (para. 4.2);
(c)   that SW would carry out a water and wastewater tariff study by October 30, 1996 in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank with assistance of consultants
satisfactory to the Bank, and take all action required to implement the recommendations
by June 30, 1997, in accordance with methodology acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.6);
(d)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, that the level of water and wastewater tariffs be
increased by at least 15% in real terms by March 15, 1996 in accordance with
methodology acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.7);
(e)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, that SW would not incur any debt, unless its net
revenues for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence (or for a
later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater
amount) shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements for
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be incurred (para. 4.15);



- 43 -
(f)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SW would not declare any dividend or make any
other distribution with respect to its share capital prior to December 31, 2001 (para 4.15);
(g)   that MS would exempt SW from income tax payable to MS on SW's net profit for each
fiscal year commencing fiscal year 1995 until and including year 2001 (para 4.16); and
(h)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, that SW would adjust its tariffs so as to maintain
for each of its fiscal years a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues
not higher than 85% (para. 4.19).
6.4          During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the Borrower, the
Municipality of Siauliai, and Siauliai Water:
(a)   that the project would be carried out in accordance with the SW Action Plan and the EMC
Implementation Program as agreed with the Bank (para. 2.9); and
(b)   that all goods, works and services to be financed from the loan proceeds would be
procured in accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines for Procurement n (January, 1995)
including amendments as of the loan signing date, using the Bank standard bidding
documents. Consulting Services would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for
"Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing
Agency" (August 1981), including amendments as of the loan signing date (para. 2.25).
C. Condition for Board Presentation
6.5          As a condition of Board Presentation:
the MoEP had finalized and submitted an acceptable implementation program for the EMC
to the Bank (para. 2.9);
D. Conditions of Effectiveness
6.6          Conditions of effectiveness include:
(a)   that an agreement for the twinning arrangement between SW and a foreign water and
wastewater utility acceptable to the Bank has been executed on behalf of SW and such
utility, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.10);
(b)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Finnish Grant Agreement, the
Swedish Grant Agreement and the Norwegian Grant Agreement have been fulfilled (para.
2.19);
(c)   that a subsidiary loan agreement has been executed by the GoLI and SW (para. 2.23);



- 44 -
(d)   that the PIU has been established within SW with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank, with staff that shall include a director, an accountant, an English speaking
assistant whose qualifications and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank, and a
consultant to the PIU providing project management and procurement advice whose
qualifications and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.3); and
(e)   that a Supervisory Board of SW, with composition and functions acceptable to the Bank,
has been created, and SW Statutes have been amended in accordance with applicable laws
of the Borrower and in manner satisfactory to the Bank to reflect the creation of such
Supervisory Board (para 3.8).
E. Recommendation
6.7          With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for a
Bank Loan of US $6.20 million fixed rate US dollar single currency loan with standard amortization term,
grace period and interest rate for an expected disbursement period of 3-6 years. The Borrower would be
the Republic of Lithuania.



ANNEXES
Annex 1      Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 2      Siauliai Water Action Plan
Annex 3      Project Description
Annex 4      Termis of Reference
4A: Twinning Arrangement
4B: Project Steering Committee
4C: Project Implementation Unit
4D: Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
Annex 5      Table la     Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Table lb     Detailed Project Costs
Table 2      Financing Plan by Year
Table 3      Financing Plan by Financer
Table 4      Procurement Arrangements
Table 5      Implementation of Project Activities - Summary
of Procurement Packages
Table 6      Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
Table 7      Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 6      Environmental Review of the WWIC
Annex 7      Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 8      Supervision Plan
Annex 9      Siauliai Water - Financial Analysis
Annex 10     Review of Affordability






Annex 1
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators






1                                     ANNEX 1
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.            Actions to Monitor Development Objectives. Given the essential role program
monitoring and evaluation play in determining the impact of a given intervention on development
objectives, a number of project performance indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate progress
during the implementation of the Siauliai Environment Project. At the rnid-term review, the need to
fine-tune the Project design will be based on the data received from these indicators.
2.            Project Indicators. Project monitoring indicators were developed during appraisal in
order to enable tracking of Project inputs on key development objectives throughout the Project cycle.
These indicators would be developed further during the project start up. The progress of these indicators
would be evaluated in relative, not absolute terms. During supervision, a selected number of operational,
financial and environmental indicators would be monitored in accordance with Project objectives. An
illustrative list of indicators follows for each component of the project.
(i)    Water and Wastewater Improvement Component. These indicators would be recorded on a
monthly basis by Siauliai Water and included in the Project Implementation Unit's (PIU) regular
reporting to the Bank.
(a)    Operational indicators.
-      The quantity of water that is produced (extracted) and the quantity of water that is
sold are both going to be monitored. The ratiol (Water produced - Water sold) I
Water produced } is expected to fall over time as the reliability of the water
supply distribution system improves;
-      The collection ratio (total collections divided by total billings) for the industrial,
commercial, and residential sectors are expected to improve; arrears are also
expected to fall;
-      The total cost of extracting water that is not sold, and of selling water from which
revenues are not collected is going to be monitored and expressed as a percentage
of operational profits. This percentage should fall over time.
(b)   Financial indicators.
The average unit price adjustments for water and sewerage supplied for each
consumer category (the tariff schedule) would be monitored in accordance with
the Loan and Project Agreements;
In addition to the internal rate of return, the following standard financial
indicators would be monitored:



2                                     ANNEX 1
A Debt Service Coverage Ratio (the extent to which internal cash
generation covers total debt services) not to fall below 1.5;
A Working Ratio (ratio of operating costs to operating revenues,
excluding depreciation, interest payments, and debt service payments) not
to exceed 70%;
An Operating Ratio (ratio of operating costs to operating revenues,
including depreciation and interest payments but excluding debt service
payments) not to exceed 85%; and
A Current Ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities) not to fall
below 2.0.
(c)     Environmental indicators
-      Number of breaks and trouble calls on the water supply and distribution system;
-      Number of breaks and trouble calls on the wastewater collection and conveyance
system;
-      Level of pollution load reduction achieved by the upgraded wastewater treatment
plant;
-      Levels of pollution load reduction achieved at a number of selected locations.
(ii)    Environmental Management Component. These indicators would be recorded on a monthly
basis by the regional environmental coordinator and included in the regular reporting to the Bank.
Measurements of water quality would be performed by the Regional Environmental Offices of
Siauliai and Panevezys.
(a)    Activity No. 1: Direct support for the Lithuanian side of the Lielupe River Basin
Commission. Cooperation between Latvia and Lithuania should perform satisfactory with
respect to the management of water quality in the Lielupe River Basin. This includes:
-      regular meetings between the Lithuanian and Latvian sides of the Lielupe
River Basin Commission;
-      establishment of a functional office in Siauliai directly supporting the
Commission;
-      establishment of a Geographic Information System for the Commission;
and
-      establishment of an emergency warning system.



3                                       ANNEX 1
(b)    Activity No. 2: Regional enviromnental monitoring and water quality laboratory system:
regular and accurate monitoring of water quality in the Upper Lielupe River
Basin;
regular and accurate monitoring of emission of various pollutants to be
determined;
(c)    Activity No. 3: Small point source pollution control:
-      Effective and reliable monitoring of run-off; and
-      Reduced pollution from pig farms;
(d)    Activity No. 4: Non-point source pollution control.
Effective and reliable monitoring of run-off;
Reduced pollution downstream from the pilot areas; and
Number of regular participants in the training activities.






Annex 2
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Siauliai Water Action Plan






I                                    ANNEX 2
DRAFT ACTION PLAN FOR
SIAULIAI WATER
October 20, 1995
Siauliai Environment Project
1.           The management of Siauliai Water (SW) has decided to initiate the preparation and
implementation of an Action Plan to improve the technical, financial and management performance of the
utility through investments and management development, in order to (a) improve the quality of its
services; (b) internally generate funds to finance its operations, maintenance and infrastructure; and 
service the repayment of long term loans. This Action Plan states the SW's operational, organizational and
financial goals in the short- and medium term and proposed additional steps for enabling efficient
implementation of the proposed capital investments and development of SW into an autonomous utility.
These steps include changes in governance, tariff setting practices, operational restructuring, and incentives
for enterprise efficiency.
2.            A number of actions are needed to enable SW to achieve its objectives. Issues that require
special attention have been identified, and these include:
-      Governance Framework;
-     Enterprise Strategy;
-      Operational Restructuring and incentives for enterprise efficiency; and
-     Technical and Financial Management.
3.           Governance Framework. The City of Siauliai will revise the governance of SW and
clarify the distribution of decision making powers between the Municipality, the City Council, City
Executive Committee and the utility in the area of water and wastewater services (see Appendix 1).
4.            The proposal for the revision of the governance system was discussed during the loan
negotiations with the World Bank in October, 1995. It is anticipated that the proposed changes will be
completed by the time of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
5.            Enterprise Strategy. SW will prepare a long term Strategic Plan based on the Feasibility
Studv prepared by Scanenvironment and it will cover the time span up to year 2010. A proposed outline
of the Strategic Plan is attached as Appendix 1. It is anticipated that the Twinning Partner would assist SW
in drafting the Strategic Plan. A draft strategic plan will be prepared by July 1, 1996.



2                                     ANNEX 2
6.            Operational Restructuring and Enterprise Efficiency. SW will prepare an Operational
Restructuring Plan in conformity with the current investment program and the revised Enterprise Strategy.
The objective of operational restructuring is to improve productivity and cost efficiency of SW and thus
reduce pressures for tariff increases (see Appendix 2 for details). The Operational Restructuring Plan will
be completed by September 30, 1996
7.            Technical and Financial Management. Siauliai Water will be contracting technical and
financial management assistance through a Twinning Arrangement with a Nordic water and wastewater
utility. Terms of reference for the Twinning Arrangement have been developed in coordination with the
World Bank (Appendix 4) and should be considered as an integrate part of this Action Plan. This Action
Plan would be implemented with the assistance of the Twinning Partner. Technical and financial
management issues not directly mentioned in the Terms of Reference for the Twinning Arrangement
include:
1.    Tariff Structure. A detailed tariff study will be carried out by October 30, 1996. The
recommendations of the study would be implemented by June 30, 1997; and
2.     Tariff Level. The tariff level should be structured so as to allow the utility to achieve
a cash flow level adequate enough to:
-      service debt obligations at a cash flow generation level which does not
allow the debt service coverage ratio' to fall below 1.5 each year;
-      achieve a working ratio2 of 60% or below; and
-      achieve an operating ratio, below 85 %.
While awaiting the results of the Tariff Study, the tariffs would be increased by at least
15% in real terms by March 15, 1996.
3.     Revenue Collection.  SW  will improve revenue collection by taking control of all
collection systems (including collection from Municipal Housing Enterprises), pressuring
defaulters, obtaining additional authority for debt recovery through the court system and
providing incentives to customers who pay promptly. By December 31, 1996, Siauliai
Water will:
produce a Lomprehensive statement of accounts receivable by consumer
category and age;
I      Debt service ratio =( net profit - depreciation +interest expense) divided by (interest expense + loan repayment).
2      Working ratio = operating expenses divided by revenue
3      Operating ratio = operating costs, depreciation, and interest expense divided by revenue



3                                    ANNEX 2
iimplement a program of improved recovery of outstanding accounts; and
for the financial year of 19964, include a provision in the income
statement for non-performing receivables.
4.    Performance Standards. Development of quality standards for each service (e.g. water
quality, leak reports, water pressure etc. based on corresponding EU standards. A set of
phased quality standards would be developed by January 1, 1998.
5.    Environmental Monitoring. In coordination with the Municipal and Regional Environment
Offices to establish a computer based environmental monitoring program to evaluate the
current and future performance of the collection system, treatment processes and status of
receiving water. This program should be established by October 1, 1996.
4     January I - December 31.



l



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Siauliai Water Enterprise Strategic Plan
Year 1996 - 2010
Proposed Outline
1.    CURRENT SITUATION
1.1    History and background
1.2    Operating environment
1.3    Technical evaluation
1.4   Environmental evaluation
1.5    Organization and management
1.6   Financial analysis
2.    FUTURE OUTLOOK OF OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
2.1    Population growth, purchasing power and economic structure
2.2    Demand projections for fresh water and waste water services
3.    STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE TARGETS
3.1    Strategic objectives
3.2    Operational performance targets
4.    PLANNED INVESTMENTS
4.1    Water supply
4.2    Wastewater collection
4.3    Wastewater treatment
4.4    Other investments
4.5   Implementation schedule
5.    INSTITUTIONAL AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
5.1    Legal framework
5.2    Tariff policy and revenue collection
5.3    Organizational restructuring
5.4   Institutional strengthening
6.    FiNANCIAL PROJECTIONS AND AFFORDABILITY
6.1    Revenue projection
6.2   Profit and loss projection
6.3    Cash flow projection
6.4   Financial Performance Targets
6.5    Affordability
7.    ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW






1                                     ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Operational Restructuring and Asset Divestiture
1.            Objectives. Currently major operational changes of SW  are difficult, however SW
management, must identify and influence future trends. SW must actively promote organizational
restructuring, because only productivity increases and improvements in service quality, reflected in lower
costs and customer satisfaction, will justify higher wages and technological progress at SW. The objectives
of operational restructuring are to:
(a)    improve productivity, cost efficiency and employee motivation at SW;
(b)    reduce need for tariff increases; and
(c)    release idle assets through divestment.
2.            Current facts. The current capital and labor productivity of SW is low by international
standards (initially estimated at 10 - 30 % of western best practice) for three main reasons:
(a)    Outdated technology;
(b)    Inefficient organization of work; and
(c)    Lack of sub-contracting services.
3.            The current investment program will address the outdated technology and gradually reduce
the need for staff in many core and support functions.
4.            Functional restructuring. In order to improve its efficiency, SW should concentrate on
its core functions, i.e. tasks that are directly related to the provision of water and the treatment of
wastewater. The productivity of these functions must be constantly improved through investments and
better organization of work. At the same time, service quality and customer orientation must be drastically
improved.
5.            SW  will identify support functions, i.e. tasks that are not directly connected with the
provision of water and wastewater services. SW will analyze these functions with the assistance of a
consultant and suggest measures to gradually separate these functions and related assets from SW, if found
to be feasible.
6.            "In-house" versus sub-contracted services. The present manner of organizing activities
could be explained by following reasons:
(a)    Private services are not readily available;
(b)    Even if private services were available, private sub-contractors couldn't be
competitive with SW's in-house services, because of SW's low wage level in
comparison with the private sector;
(c)    Private contractors would have to pay Value Added Tax and profit tax, which
would make their services too expensive; and



2                                    ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
(d)    There are contractual problems in dividing responsibilities between SW and sub-
contractors.
These arguments are valid, but they may lead to biased conclusions for the following reasons:
(a)    Competitive private services will gradually become available as soon as there is
demand for them;
(b)    The present accounting practice at SW does not allocate costs in a correct way,
and therefore in-house services look cheaper than they actually are; and
(c)    There are many institutional and policy disincentives for small scale private
businesses; the climate for entrepreneurship will improve.
7.            SW will select one or two SW support functions, analyze the present operations in detail,
allocate the costs (including overheads) in a new way, and investigate alternative ways of doing things.
These simplified case studies will add concrete examples to the discussion on operational restructuring and
on core functions versus support functions. They will also demonstrate the potential for divestment and
revenue from asset sales.
8.            SW will take active steps to encourage the growth of competitive sub-contracting services.
Selected in-house projects should be subjected to outside competition on experimental basis, even if there
is little interest in SW's projects in the beginning. The rules and procedures of contractor selection must
be openly communicated to all interested parties. The growth of support services can take a number of
years, but SW should start the process now and show example to other public organizations.



Annex 3
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Project Description






Annex 3                                            LITHUANIA - SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Part A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
in US $ Million
Local       Loan       Grant                              Element                                                 Benefits
Contribution
Ministry of   World    Sweden   I. Water:                                                      Would result in improvements in water conservation and
Environmental    Bank                   *  Improve Water Quality              3.70              improved quality of water provided to residents. Water
Protection               $ 4.0                                                                 quality would be improved by treating groundwater
$ 6.0                   *  Leakage Reduction Program          0.25              through aeration and filtration for iron removal. Leak
$ 7.60                 Finland                                                               reduction program would reduce infiltration into sewage
*  Replacement of Pumps/Spare         0.30      4.25   system. Pumping stations would be rehabilitated.
Municipality              S 1.5           Parts
of Siauliai
Norway  II. Wastewater:                            2.10              Improved collection and conveyance of wastewaters,
S 0.4                               *  Rehabilitation of Sewer Network                       greater capacity for wastewater treatment would increase
$1.5            and Pumping Stations                                 treatment levels and reduce frequency of by-passing;
*  Wastewater Treatment.                                better treatment performance would improve the quality
a. Rehabilitation of Existing                        of wastewater discharges. Improvements would also
Wastewater Treatment Plant    7.50        9.60   lower energy costs through installation of energy efficient
b. Completion of Elements of                        equipment for pumping and in treatment plants. The
New Wastewater Treatment                         proposed interventions would reduce BOD load from
Plant                                            Siauliai by approximately 85%, resulting in significant
improvement in water quality in the Upper Lielupe River
Water and Wastewater Subtotal                      13.95   basin. The proposed activities are at established sites and
would not require involuntary resettlement.
Ill. Institutional Strengthening                           Would provide opportunity for Lithuanian experts to
*  Project Implementation Unit        0.55              develop new skills in project planning, implementation and
construction supervision.
*  Twinning Arrangemient              0.75              A twinning arrangement would be used to strengthen
institutional capacity.
*  Information Technology             0.20       1.50   Would allow utility to upgrade management methods.
*  Other Technical Assistance         0.05
BASE COST                                   15.30
Physical contingencies                    1.40             The project would provide accurate cost data for both
physical and price contingencies for projects implemented  >
Price contingencies                       4.40             in Lithuania and thus support financial, economic and
technical planning of similar projects in the future.
w
__ __ __ _  __ __ __ __ __  COST  FOR  COMPONENT  A                 __ _ _     21.00    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Annex 3
LITHUANIA
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Part B. Environmental Management Component
in US $ Million
Local           Loan          Grant                            Element                                              Benefits
Contribution
Ministry of                    Sweden                                                           Support for selected  activities for development of
Environmental                    $0.18           *  Activity No. 1: Support                       institutional capacity of the "International Lielupe River
Protection                                        for Lielupe River Basin                       Commission." Would include a twinning arrangement with
support would                     (T.B.D)             Commission                   0.30            a foreign river basin management unit. It is anticipated that
include personnel                  $ 0.12                                                          parallel  bilateral  support  would  be  provided  for
costs and                                                                          I_complementary actions in Latvia.
contributions in
kcid.                             Sweden          *  Activity No. 2: Support       0.85             Establishment of basic water quality monitoring stations at
Ind.                World         $ 0.17             for a Regional                               three locations, provision of portable analytical equipment
Bank                            Environmental Monitoring                      and training for personnel. Parallel bilateral support would
Finland           and Water Quality                             be provided for complementary actions in Latvia. Sida has
$ 0.2        $ 0.200            Laboratory System                             contracted IVL to undertake this work in Latvia and   to
Lithuania. Additional environmental  monitoring  and
(T.B.D)                                                         laboratory equipment would be provided for the Regional
$ 0.28                                                          Environmental Office of Siauliai. TA and training would be
provided, including development of a sludge management
plan and the development and implementation of an
industrial pollution management plan.
Finland        *  Activity No. 3: Small Point   0.40            Support for demonstration activities for use of low-cost
$ 0.400            Source Pollution Control                      pollution control technologies at restructured livestock
production facilities.
Sweden          *  Activity No. 4: Non-Point    0.30             Would   expand   upon   previous   work   under
$ 0.30            Source Pollution Control                      Lithuanian/Swedish and Lithuanian/USEPA  cooperative
__ __ __ ___ __ ____   prograrns for non-point source pollution at a site near Birzai
COST FOR COMPONENT B                1.85       _
TOTAL ESTIM. PROJECT COST          22.85
3



Annex 4
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference - Siualiai Water
- A: Twinning Arrangement
- B: Project Steering Committee
- C: Project Implementation Unit
- D: Water and Wastewater Tariff Study






l                                    ANNEX 4A
"Twinning Arrangement" for Siauliai Water
Draft Terms of Reference
1.            Background. With a population of 147,000, Siauliai is the fourth largest city in Lithuania.
The city's economic base is mainly industrial. The region surrounding Siauliai is flat and criss-crossed
by a large number of small rivers, forming the upper reaches of the Lielupe River Basin. Siauliai is
situated on one of the smaller tributaries draining to the Lielupe River, the second largest river flowing into
the Gulf of Riga in the Baltic Sea. All of the municipal and industrial wastewater from Siauliai is emitted
into Kulpe, a small tributary of the Lielupe and, in summer, this often constitutes its entire flow.
2.            Pollution discharges to the river basin have reached such levels that there exist a public
health problem. Most sections of the river are unsuitable for recreational use, and several beaches of the
Latvian coast at Jurmala, the country's main summer resort area, have been closed for swimming for years
as a direct result of pollution from the Lielupe River. The largest point source of pollution in the Lielupe
River basin is the city of Siauliai being responsible for approximately 50 % of the total discharge into the
basin.
3.            The Government of Lithuania has acklnowledged the problem and has committed itself to
reducing the pollution load meeting the recommendations of the Helsinki Commissiorn. lTrn-'ition, Siauliai
has been identified as a "Priority Hot Spot" in the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action
Programme (JCP), and it is included in the Public Investment Program, approved by the Lithuanian
Parliamentary Committee on Environment and the Cabinet of Ministers. The Government of Lithuania
and the Municipality of Siauliai is now discussing with the World Bank and the Governments of Finland,
Norway and Sweden potential funding of investments for technical, financial and institutional improvements
in the water and wastewater services in Siauliai. These discussions are based on a detailed study' assessing
the situation of Siauliai Water (SW).
4.            When planning the implementation of possible improvements in water and wastewater
services in Siauliai, it is important to bear in mind, that water and sewerage services in the country have
only recently been decentralized from state responsibility to the responsibility of the appropriate
municipalities. Therefore, water and wastewater facilities are not yet autonomous in accordance with
market-oriented management practices but managed as direct extensions of municipal governments. One
of the principal obstacles in promoting the creation of autonomous enterprises which could provide cost-
effective, affordable municipal services, is the municipalities' lack of experience in market-oriented
operational, organizational and financial management practices. Consequently, in order to facilitate the
development of the utility into an autonomous, service-oriented and efficiently run enterprise with modern
management practices, external support is required. As a part of the proposed Siauliai Environment
Project, it is recommended that an organized Twinning Arrangement between SW and a reputable foreign
water and wastewater company/ies be formed in order to achieve the overall project objectives. This
document sets out the terms of reference for such an arrangement.
I  Prepared by Scanvironment, financed by the Government of Sweden, through BITS (now merged with Sida).



2                                  ANNEX 4A
5.           Objectives. The main objective of this Twinning Arrangement would be to improve SW's
overall performance through changes in it's operational, organizational and financial management practices.
These changes would be in accordance with a detailed Action Plan, which is under preparation by SW and
would be agreed by the World Bank. The overall objective of the Action Plan is to define and formulate
a strategic vision of the short- and long-term future of the company in terms of its operations, legal identity,
organizational setup and financial condition. A particularly important objective for the Twinning
Arrangement would be to provide SW with a commercial attitude and a sense of service directed at
providing the best water supply, and best wastewater services possible to its customers at an affordable cost
without further municipal or government subsidies in the future.
6.           Scope of Work.  The twinning partner/s, in close coordination with the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), would support and assist SW to improve its operational practices in wastewater
services and water supply, and implement the Action Plan. This Twinning Arrangement would take place
during the first three year of the proposed project implementation period. Following this term, the "new"
SW would be expected to operate in accordance with modern utility management practices and be fully
equipped with computerized management information systems. The twinning partner/s would bring to SW,
state-of-the-art know-how in utility management, administration and operation.
7.           Working Arrangements. All activities and tasks under this arrangement are intended to
be carried out in close coordination of both/all twinning parties. Counterpart systems would be applied
whenever appropriate and the participation of a maximum number of SW staff would be emphasized. The
twinning partner/s would provide advisors recruited from its own staff and/or outside the utility, minor
equipment as agreed upon, and subcontract consultants as and when necessary. The selection of consultants
would be done jointly with SW. Cooperation under this Twinning Arrangement would be regarded as a
binding agreement betweeni the parties. A contract specifying duties, responsibilities, and fees and
expenses, would be established and agreed between the SW and the twinning partner/s. Each of parties
would nominate an English speaking twinning coordinator to be responsible for the execution of the
agreement. This contract and its execution would be supervised by the PIU and World Bank supervision
missions. Cooperation would be initiated by drafting and agreeing upon a specified work plan which would
include a detailed time schedule and budget. The work plan, time schedule and bLJget would be cleared
by the PIU and submitted to the Bank.
8.           Reporting. The Twinning Arrangement would follow the same reporting requirements
as the PIU. The twinning coordinators would be jointly responsible for preparing annual financial reports
and annual progress reports for each activity included under the twinning agreement. These reports would
be cleared by the PIU and submitted to the Bank.
9.           Main Tasks. The main task of the twinning partner/s is to further refine and improve
SW's Action Plan in order to create a long-term strategic vision of the future of the company. The
operational experience and knowledge of the twinning partner, including administrative, organizational and
financial competencies would be transferred to SW through support in the following three main areas: (a)
formulation and implementation of all management and administration procedures and systems; and
(b) formulation and implementation of a program for system rehabilitation and operational
improvements.



3                                  ANNEX 4A
(a)    Management and Administrative Procedures and Systems
(I)    Objective. The main objective of this component would be to improve existing,
and implement new management and information/administrative procedures and
systems within SW to assist with the transformation of the company into an
efficiently run utility. An important objective would be to provide SW with a
commercial attitude and a sense of service aimned toward providing the best water
supply possible to its customers.
(ii)    .     Support would be provided for the:
-     preparation of an organization and human resources development plan,
including definition of tasks and joh descriptions. aqqevun'Pnlt of wvork
performance and conformity with tru tasks;
identification of an appropriate computerization strategy, considering
budgetary constraints, computer systems expertise available in Lithuania
and training needs. The strategy would include hardware and software
specifications, modular growth and compatibility, software dev lopmlent
standards, programming and interface languages, network requirements,
remote access, database integrity, etc.;
development and improvement all of SW's managerial, administrative,
information and operating functions. This would include reporting formats
for internal and external parties and design or adaptation of existing
modern and appropriate computerized applications for the following
functions:
*     financial management (accounting, budgeting, financial planning,
etc.);
*     custom-oriented  commercial management (meter reading,
customer master file, billing, collection, customer services,
consumer census, consumer education programs, etc.);
*     supply  management (requirements  planning, purchasing,
inventory control etc.);
*     administration (budget controls, payroll, performance, etc.);
*     personnel management (recruiting, promotion, remuneration
etc.); and
*     operations and maintenance management (production control,
work-orders generation and control, collection of water and
wastewater data, etc.);



4                                  ANNEX 4A
development of a Management Information System (MIS), which will
allow timely access to all information required for effective control and
management of the company is needed. The computerization of the
managerial, administrative and operating functions would be developed in
an integrated manner. Any databases would require the storage of
information in a common format for future retrieval and analysis; and
-     development of a reporting system for the follow-up of capital investment
with the objective of providing the company's management with
appropriate tools for: making effective and efficient use of existing asse's;
monitoring and controlling its investment programs; and accounting for
the impact of future renewals. It is proposed that the implementation of a
Geographic Inforrnation System (GIS) be considered.
(iii)   Trajn*ng. It is expected that drafting new managerial and administrative functions
would be done jointly with the twinning partner and SW. Most of the knowledge
transfer from the twinning partner to SW would take place through visits to the
twinning company and on-the-job training during the process of carrying out the
different tasks under the component. However, specialized training through
external consultants or attendance in external training courses for utilizing
computers and associated software would be required as an initial step of
implementation.
(b)    Sy      e     tation Progr. and Operational Impovements
(I)    Qbjective. The main objective of this component would be to technically improve
operations and maintenance practices in the water supply and wastewater system
including the production plants and distribution systems;
(ii)   S~p:
Water System. Operation and maintenance water loss reduction, equipment
maintenance, etc. and the design or adaptation of existing modem and appropriate
computerized applications:
-     system  repair and  improvements, establishment of appropriate
preventative maintenance system and storage control;
-     formulation of a network optimization program;
-     demand management; supporting the implementation of a leak detection
and repair program, which includes the establishment of a reliable record
of system leaks, their causes and appropriate repair methods; and
-     system mapping (GIS).



5                                   ANNEX 4A
Wastewater System. Operation and maintenance, advanced operation of biological
process, sewer rehabilitation program and adoption of appropriate computerized
applications when appropriate.
-      assisting in establishment of preventative maintenance system for sewer
network, pumping stations and treatment plant;
-      preparation of sewer rehabilitation program including reliable recording
system of leaks and repair method;
-     assisting in network mapping;
-      introduction of state of art operation of biological phosphorus and BOD
removal process including appropriate control systems; and
-     establishment of a water laboratory.
(iii)   lrain8ng. Most of the knowledge transfer from the twinning partner/s would take
place through on-the-job training during the process of carrying out the different
tasks under the component. Specialized training through external consultants or
attendance in external training courses and visits to the twinning company would
be applied as appropriate.






1                                 ANNEX 4B
Draft Terms of Reference for Project Steering Committee
Siauliai Environment Project
1.    Objective. To facilitate implementation of the Project, the Ministry of Environmental Protection
(MoEP) would establish a Project Steering Committee (PSC) which would meet periodically to provide
policy guidance, support coordination with multilateral and bilateral financiers, and facilitate financial and
technical support for the project from Lithuanian sources. While the PSC would provide general guidance,
it should be recognized that responsibility for implementation of the Project would rest as follows:
(a)    Component 1. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component -- "Siauliai Water" with
support of the Project Implementation Unit; and
(b)    Component 2. Environmental Management Component -- MoEP would have lead
responsibility for this component while the implementation would be delegated to the
Regional Environment Protection Office in Siauliai and Siauliai Municipal Environment
Department.
2.    Membership of the PSC. The Minister of Enviornment would appoint a chairperson for the PSC
who may also act as Project Coordinator. The membership of the PSC would include, but not be limited
to, representatives from the following:
(a)    MoEP;
(b)    Ministry of Finance;
(c)    Environmental Advisor to the Government;
(d)    Environmental Advisor to the Nature Protection Committee of the Parliament,
(e)    Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction,
(f)    Regional Environment Protection Office in Siauliai and Panevezys,
(g)    Siauliai Municipal Environment Department, and
(g)    Siauliai Water.
In addition, a representative from The World Bank Regional office in Vilnius would serve as an ex-officio
member for purposes of coordination.



2                                   ANNEX 4B
3.     Key Tasks of the PSC. The PSC would have the following tasks:
(a)    provide overall guidance for the Project;
(b)    facilitate national and local cocrdination on project related issues;
(c)    facilitate donor coordination;
(d)    assure that financial resources required from Lithuanian sources are made available to the
implementing agencies in a timely manner;
(e)    periodically review Project expenditures and costs to assure they are consistent with the
objectives of the project; and
(f)    periodically review compliance with procurement guidelines of main Project financers.



1                                 ANNEX 4C
Project Implementation Unit for Siauliai Environment Project
Draft Terms of Reference
The duties of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would include:
(a)    On behalf of Siauliai Water (SW) and the Municipality of Siauliai coordinate
relations with the World Bank, the bi-lateral donors, consultants and the
contractors during the project implementation phase;
(b)    Advise SW and Municipality regarding the use of the World Bank loan and the bi-
lateral grants;
(c)    On behalf of SW and the Municipality, prepare short lists of consultants to be
invited to submit proposals, draft terms of reference, issue invitations, respond to
questions raised, prepare addenda as needed, evaluate consultant and contractor
prequalifications as well as proposals, and help support the management of SW
and the Municipality with the negotiation and signing of the resulting contracts;
(d)    Follow-up the implementation of the recommendations of supervision reports of
the World Bank;
(e)    Not later than 60 days after each calendar quarter ending on March 31, June 30,
September 30 and December 31, prepare for the Bank a consolidated report on
project implementation activities for the preceding quarter covering the physical
progress measured against construction and procurement schedules, institutional
development activities, and monitoring indicators acceptable to the Bank;
(f)    Monitor project implementation and expenditures, and prepare and submit
disbursement requests and progress reports on implementation. Copies of
disbursement requests should be submitted to the Ministry of Finance;
(g)    Prepare terms-of-reference and tender documents for consultancy contracts, (e.g
contract coordination/technical support and   institutional strengthening
consultancies) and monitor the training to be provided under these contracts;
(h)    Follow  all aspects of the implementation of the Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component of the Project and when needed prepare written
warnings about possible problems and delays as well as proposing technical,
financial and institutional measures needed to improve project implementation;
(I)    Coordinate the services among suppliers and contractors for timely deliveries; and



2                                  ANNEX 4C
(j)    Prepare the special reports and update periodically the action plans, required as
a consequence of the World Bank Loan and Project Agreements, the bi-lateral
grant agreements and the subsidiary loan agreements. All relevant reports should
also be sent to the Project Steering Committee.



1                                    ANNEX 4D
Water and Sewerage Tariff Study for Siauliai Water
Draft Terms of Reference
1.             bjective. The objective of the tariff study is to design a tariff system for Siauliai Water
(SW) which meets the following criteria: (a) allows the entity to generate sufficient cash flow for meeting
its financial requirements; (b) provides incentives for conserving water and for undertaking pollution
control and abatement activities; (c) reflects as closely as possible the costs to the economy of meeting
increasing demands for water and sewerage services; and (d) ensures that services will be affordable to the
whole population.
2.            Scope  The scope of the tariff study will include:
(a)    estimating the incremental costs for the water supply system, resulting from
building new capacity, rehabilitating and updating infrastructure, reducing
unaccounted-for water, and operating and maintaining the infrastructure;
(b)    estimating the incremental costs for the sewerage system, resulting from building
new capacity and operating and maintaining the infrastructure. The capacity cost
includes investments for sewerage connections, collectors and pumping stations,
interceptors, and final disposition and treatment;
(c)    estimating the incremental cost of servicing different types of customers with water
supply;
(d)    estimating the incremental cost of servicing different types of customers with
sewerage services, taking into account both the quantity and quality of the
effluent, so that the costs of the sewage system and treatment can be equitably and
efficiently distributed between domestic and industrial dischargers and between the
various industrial firms;
(e)    estimating the financial requirements for SW meeting preestablished targets such
as a viable cash position, contribution to maintenance and investments from
internal generation of funds, provision for bad debts, and debt service;
(f)    estimating the customer's ability to pay for the services in the context of
anticipated increase of other utilities (e.g. heating and electricity); and
(g)    training of relevant SW  staff in the development and use of cost estimation
models.



2                                 ANNEX 4D
3.           OutQt. The study, based on the estimates enumerated in para. 2 should recommend:
(a)    alternative tariff policies which meet the requirements outlined in para. 1;
(b)    a plan of action and strategy to implement the recommended tariff policies, to the
extent that Siauliaiand SW's authorities have the legal capability to do it; and
(c)    ways in which the public can be made more aware of the need of implementing
the proposed tariff policy.



Annex 5
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Table la    Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Table lb    Detailed Project Costs
Table 2     Financing Plan by Year
Table 3     Financing Plan by Financer
Table 4     Procurement Arrangements
Table 5     Implementation of Project Activities,
Summary of Procurement Packages
Table 6     Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
Table 7     Estimated Schedule of Disbursement






1                                                  ANNEX 5
Table la:   PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENTr
-------- LT Million** --------    -------- US S Million --------
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
A. WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPONENT (WWIC)
Project Implementation Unit
Premises                                                 0,09      0.00     0.09     0.02      0.00    0.021
Office equipment                                         0.00      0.10     0.10     0.00      0.03     0.025
Vehiclels                                                0,00      0.09     0.09     0.00      0.02     0.023
PIU Support/Project Supervision                          0.00      1.22     1.22     0.00      0.31    0.305
PIU Training                                             0.00      0.08     0.08     0.00      0.02     0.019
Local Staff Salaries & Admin. costs                      0.47      0.00     0.47     0.12      0.00    0.117
Sub Total  0Q5      1.49     24       0.14      QI       0.i1W
Water Supply
Birute, Water Quality Improvement                        7.35      7.35     14.70     1.84     1.84     3.68
Replacement of Pumps/Spare Parts                         0.20      1.00     1.20     0.05      0.25     0.30
Sub Total   L5      L85      1LD       1.89    2L92      2
Wastewater and Sewerage Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of Sewer Network                          2.10      2.10     4.20     0.53      0.53     1.05
Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations                        1.05     3.11     4.16     0.26      0.78     1.04
Rehabilitation of Old WWTP                               0.30      0.00     0.30     0.08      0.00     0.08
Sub Total   .45     5.21     8.66    0Q6        1D3      2.12
New Wastewater Treatment Plant
Main Pumping Station                                     2.10      2.21     4.31     0.53      0.55     1.08
Pre-treatment                                            0.26      1.68     1.94     0.07     0.42      0.49
Raising Main                                             2.31      3.68     5.99     0.58     0.92      1.50
Aeration                                                 0.53      4.31     4.83     0.13      1.08     1.21
Secondary Sedimentation                                   1.84     1.05     2.89     0.46      0.26     0.72
Dewatering of Sludge                                      1.05     1.89     2.94     0.26     0.47      0.74
Heat, Electricity, Plumbing                               1.16     2.31     3.47     0.29      0.58     0.87
Areal Civil Works                                        2.60      0.50     3.10     0.65      0.13     0.78
Sub Total  11D84    17.2    29246     296       4.40    723k
Technical Assistance and Training
Tariff Study                                             0.00      0.12     0.12     0.00      0.03     0.03
TA/Training for New WWTP& laboratory                     0.11      1.09     1.20     0.03      0.27     0.30
TA/Training for Water Supply and Management              0.16      1.63     1.79     0.04      0.41     0.45
Leakage Detection                                        0.07      0.83     0.90     0.02      0.21     0.22
Information Technology                                   0.00      0.67     0.67     0.00      0 17     0.17
Sub Total  0.34     4.33     4.48    0Q09       LA8      L7
Total Base Cost for WWIC (incl. detailed design)  23.74    36.99    60.73  5.94  9.25    15.18
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT (EMC)
Regional Envirommental Monitoring
Lielupe River Basin Commission                           0.23     0.63     0.86      0.06     0.16     0.21
Portable Monitoring and Laboratory Systems               0.17      0.72     0.89     0.04      0.18     0.22
Management Plan for Industrial Pollution Reduction       0.00      0.73     0.73     0.00      0.18     0.18
Management Plan for Sludge                               0.00      0.38     0.38     0.00      0.10     0.10
Point Source Pollution Control in Pig Farms              0.39      0.60     0.99     0.10     0.15      0.25
Non-Point Source Pollution Control                       0.36      0.32     0.68     0.09     0.08      0.17
Sub Total  1I         a 3.38  4.53    0.29      0.84     1.13
Environmental Protection Activities in the Upper Lielupe River Basin
Monitoring Systems                                       0.00     0.27     0.27      0.00     0.07     0.07
Laboratory Systenm                                       0.00     0.27     0.27      0.00     0.07     0.07
Technical Assistance and Training                        0.00      0.37     0.37     0.00      0.09     0.09
Sub Total   a m     .9      000      0.0       0.22     0.22
Total Base Cost for EMC    1.15  4.28     5.43     0.29      1.07     1.36
Total Physical Contingencies   2.44  3.76    6.21     0.61     0.94      1.55
Total Price Contingencies  17.06  1.98    19.05    4.27      0.50     4.76
TOTAL PROJECT COST:  44.40    47.02    91.41         11.10    11.75    22.85
* Additions may not be fully consistent due to rounding up.
** Exchange rate US$I - LT                                  4.00



37
20                                                        NO-i.21   0000 d0i0II2    0.00  0.21                                                                                      % 60    6           O 2          .07    1       7        -)1% 4W120
21 A.lb ii P      h- .1ow   I. EM                                   0.00320  0.4021.000 000 0.05
22 S1bTu                                                             .2    .0    .2                                                                           .2    .0           0.22 -%T62    3      .0 2           .09       .07           "        j6       %    04    29
23 P     Pi *   C      (--I USS    2                                 2601   2.5%           2201   2                                                          0.010  0.140210.030
20A          W  dil                                                45% 0320.000  0.03200320%                                                                               003290%7.0320 03
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04
28                                     PONENT eNW                           0.01 0.01040   001 0.0
20 260m                                                   NS      I 0.021  0.026  0.0061       I                                                                     0.026  -0.026
30       -Phy-AC mig--S                                             0.0-001 __._01 -0001                                                                     0.000   0 0010.2
22S     .                         .022   0.0.c ~002  0.12 027                                                  __2__00270.02710    .2                                                                                                                                        
234     f.                                                NOkUS     0.000  0.023  0.023                                                                      00100    02    0.023
20-            WB ~1 db            0                                0.000  0.001  0.0320020                                                                                   .3210% .3                                                                                      o
30     amn ou                                       NS         0.101), 0.024, 0.024                                                                      .W T--
37        Poyl Cou   W    i. USO0DOOD                                               0I000   .0    .0
I1TOA                                                        A=S EO2XL                                                                                                                                                                         Aooo= amel



A                B          C             D         E      F      22  1H         I      J      24     L      U       N      0      P      0       R  IS        T     U     V    99    K     Y   AS   AC   AD IAE  AF   AG    AH    Al    A
a                                                                      1~~~~~~~~                        ~         ~~~~~~~~~997  1995  1999  TOAL                                                 FINANCING WWIC
9                                                                  LI  F  IT             L      F      T      L       F      T      L       F      T      L  IF         T           W- IWO 1      U01    2     H0108 I        22N   I   NM    I   OW   I      6LoooTMT
70 99.1 S..pl
71                                        ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICB  I.6 ON .750   .750  0.750  1.00D   .750                                 1.750  1 750  3 500
72                  Dij   &        09.          10%                0 070  0 039  0 099  0038  0 050  0.06                                                0.000  006    0.175
73 T.Wb...   .                                                     I__     1050  0.708   1 830  070   1.050   1 850                                       1 038   1 830  3.675
74         P6y, 6.Co.Wift-        101%                             0.105  0.079  0.184  0.079  0.105  0 084                                              0.184  0.104  0.560
70                   SuI.Tot.J                                     1.255  08066  2 021  00$66  1 55  3.021                                               2.021  2.021  4.043
761      Pnc Co      -. US$                                        05S19  0 022  0.540  0 665  0.050  0.724                                               1.114  0 060  I 264
77 1ToTAL                                                         _17  _U        IW     I       .L212                                                    -       2.20   Lm
76             WBd Ii6n                                            153391 0.0814  2.227  1.220  1.2131 2.439                                            25564  2 101  4.6657
60l           GoUJd.44                                             053351 0   055 .35  0 306  0 0001 0.306                10 641. 0 00   0.641
8i                                                                               2 562   _    __    2.745                                                               5306  84%  4 6631 12% 0 641                                                                 3 306
02
82                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~is  0.600  0.25   05306                                                       0090  0.~250 -0 3-0
U4                  Diz. ~         0%             %0.00(4% .0                                                      0                                      .060  0.0D   0 000
80     b                                                         0 050  0.250  03060090  0.250  0 30D
86   P6 A k.Co..      .~   10%                               0.095  0.025  0.050                                                                    0.O95  0.025  0 05
87                                                                 0 050   0273   0 350                                                                  0 093   0.275  0.330
60  F. Co,i.1-i 2JSI                                                 M0                                                                              0 025  0 007  0 032
09 lOTAL                                                           0099D  0.202  05362.                                                                  0.000  0.282  0.362
90     WB d.h..no.                                         0 064  02021 0 3461                                                                    0 064  0 202  0 346.
91            G.oU d6b..n~                                         9016          0.016                                                                   0 016  0.OD   00161
92                                                                               95362                                                                                  0.3621 961 0.346   410060.362
94 BASE COST. WW, SkWy                                             1090  L.009  2.050  03750   I O0D15 2.750                                              2 800  2(000  3.8001
00 D.qn. ~.,0 050  0.030  0.006  0.030  0 050  0.060                                                                                                     0.06   0.0on   0.175
90  o' 25.l..n,.                                                   1.100  1.058  2.2503  0708   2.050  10830                                              I 80   2O 06   3975
9L7 Ph,i,r4 C.,m.w. k                                              0 110  0.104  0.214  0.079  0.109  0.104                                               0.209  0.209  0.399
e8 ftw, C,,.g.4 . ~                                                0340   0 0s 29  0572   0 665  0.030  0 724                                            12206  0.067   1.293
_a       TOTAL WA3ER SUPPLY                                        1.22   I1.21   2m 23         LI    1.242                                               1242 --292  2.6
100             W w800.......                                       2405  1.1301 2.572j 1.225  2.213  2 439                                               2.656   2.383  5.011
502f          Goj.6.,,..                                           0 351  0.OD0  0.3511 0.306  0.OD   0.306                                               0 657  0 OD   0 657
103S                                                                              2.9231               2.745                                                            306062.                                                                                      5.660
150                                                      NBF       0.250  0.200  0.509  0.29   0.250  0. 06                                               0509  03509   I 061
107                 D     ip       0 %                             0 013  0 023  0 099   0.013  0.023  0.025                                              0 093   0.025  09
108 T092 b...                                                      0.263  0 263  05225  0.263  0.263  0 523                                               0520  03525  2 050
309        P6pk 6.Cood  ....      10%                              0 026  0 026  0.093  0.026  0 026i 0.0930                                              0.0953  0 093  02109
110                                                                0 209  0 289  05370  0.289  0.269  0.578                                               9 570  0.570    .5
Ill,     P6. .C        ,e-. U213                                   0.2530  0 022  0.232  0.222  0.030  0 252                                              0.351  0 092  0.4014
112 TOTAL                                                                        OM    am              0.822                     922                       2n  8.67   1U22
113          (GoU clt..~                                           0 403          0.403  0.510         0.320                                              0 914  0 OD   0.914 __
114           NOR di6b.- .....0.025  0.311  0 326                                               0 319  0.319                                              0 023   0 630  0 645
118                                                                               0 729                0.029                                                             1.959              59%  0 924                         421 0.645                             20559
116
117          di i&Smi tNBF                                       0.120  0.370  0.495  0.125  0.370  0.495                                               0.250  0 740  0909
11l0ie.                            0%            0                 009D6  0 029  0 023  0.096  0 029  0.025                                               0 025   0037  0.02
11903T.62b0O                                                       0.132  0.309  03520  02521  0.389  0 520.                                              -0263  0 777   2 040
120        P6 ,.m~ C....    .-    10%,                             0 013  0 099  0 052  0.013  0.039  00921                                               00726  0.078  0.10
123 S..bToUI                                                       02144  0 427  03572, 0.144  0 427  035721                                              0289  0033    2243
122      Pn- C_R_i,...0 USO                                        0 063  0011 007    0.22I  0.022  _02320.7 032                                                         26
3223 TOTAL                                                         Im2     am            0.22   9.8    .2L0                                                         M    .2
124           G..Ud....tl...                                       0 209  0.020  0290.5          255                                                      0 464  0 090  0 404
1223             Fl d..5n..n                                               0120g  0 420         0449  04.49                                                0     0.867  00867             -%   -                     4      6
126                                                                              0 647                 0 704                                                            2 35216   .0                                 406                                             1.3551
127I
128                                                      NCR-      0.0O7-2  0.600  0 022                                                                  0022  0 ODO  0.072
129                 Di.j nc0       0%      %                       0.090  - 0.1%000                                                                       009D4  0093O  0094
130 T.W b-___0 076  0009D  0 076                                                                             __0 076  0009   0 076
1311       P6y, .2Cm,.w.i..       10%               I000                    09 009,0OD 0   0D.                                                             .000  0 ODD   0090
13221S..T..61___                                                   0 065  0.D   00631                                                                     0 065  02     0.063
1233      Fi...CoUgi..  6US$                                       0.037  0 OD   00971                                                                    0 057  0 02%   0 037
1341TOTAL                                                                                                                                                 0.121-Az1  L  0.    0.12
I35           GoU I.05....                                          0 024         0 024                                                                   0.024  0.     0024
136            wBai.6..o.o.0.097  0 00   0.997                                                                                                            007 0160.097
1357                                                                              0.1212                                                                                 0122201   0.9 0% 6097iO  -0094                                                  -0.12221
139 W.E COS3. WW R b..0                                            0 447  0 620  1.067  0.375  0 620  0.9931                                              0.6221  .240  2.062                                 -         
14 D.,, . i,0 022. 0.032  0.093  0.019  0.031  0.00101                                                                                                    0.052  0002 0203                                    -      --                                               -    P
341 r...6..,n,..                                                   0.4691 0.652  1.120  0 394  0 631  20453                                               0.063  1.302  2.2t69
142        C-i.1-.dI 0 0471 0 065  0.222  0.039  06065  02105                                                                                             0 066  0 130  0.227
143 P,fr-C-..,  -.,, u1$                                           03      033     26    053 .32 0.3094[09a64  0004  04649
44TOTAL WWRd,,.61,....                                                  0.21   lAO   0.26                                                                             2
11401          G..Udnn..                               ____          67    00067 0060-076_____                                                                402  02     62_
2 BASENEW2 XLW                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A,.-5 7.64. l b



A                 a                        0         E      F                                                                                         tT                 U     V     0      I      Y    A A        A       BA                       A       .
*                                                                                 90             1907                  1909                   1909                TOTAL                                                       FINAN4CING WWICI
9                                                                    L      F      T  IL          F      T       L       F      T      LI    F  I1            L      F      T
1444  R                                           ~~~~~~~~~~0.9WD  0.411  0.418  0.9WD  0.449  0.449                                          .G 0.000   0.51   CM
141          NORW dube-                                              0.015  0.311  0.326  0.91W  0.319  0.319                                                 0.015  0.630  0.445
WI 4b.                                               0.09r7  0.9W 0.09   0.800  0.09W   0.00                                                 0.097  0.9W   0.097
14                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.497  2.533                                                  3.031
151 NAm Wan~   T.i.  PI.m
IS   ~~~~~~~~~~~~INBF                                      sin9  0.590  0.400  G.29   6375   0.622                                                  0.500  0.522   1.025
10         D~~~~~~~~. ~~5%              29%                 O.O13  0.00W  0.020  0.013, 0.019  0.031                                                 0.023, 0.026. 0.002
b- ma                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.265  0.I59  0.420. 0.262  0.390  0.626     1                                 .2      53 107
rby"w cmit-i.  10%                        ~0.02   0.012  0001   0.009   003.    17 00039 0       39   .06                           0.203  0.061   0.208
L~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
I  G.LJ di" -t   ~       ~    ~    ~ ~ OF             0.42   029    0.375   0.25190   5    0.373002        0607                                0.275   0.520  0.929
31            ~~~~~D.i  e.     0%           10%                 0.003   .2     .1    .0  0.020.2000  0.00.31                                             0.004  0.020  0.0423
3- OASE0NEW24.20   .4A6 0066  0a40  0.48



A                B         C            0D       EKFIGL2I  M                                                   N      KIL  H  N  PRQIR            S     T IU  IV  I W    X  IY IAB IAC IADI AE   AF IAG  IAHl   Al 
220 T.W b- -et  ~ ~      ~       ~      NOF       0.135  0.263  0.594  0.131  0.260  01504  0026  0.0530  0.029                      0.2650  0.178  0.7765
221    hykgC-D -. ol         0%    0%                      0 030 060.03   0.000  0.02   0.000  0.00   0.000  0.00                             0.09  0 000  0.007
222 SO T.W                                     ~~~~~~~~~01425  00275  0.533  0.144  0.050  0.433  0.129  0 000  0.027              06310  01235  0.7753
2233     P           S C bl US                                  04060  0.007  0.507  0.110  0.055  0.125  0.031  O.OD   0.036                      0 710  01302  0.233
2354TOTAL                                                      A        = -           = -          L      -a-R-                                              a-i
L22           G.U46donw0-u 0610                                               0.020  0.230        0.270  0.250         0.250                       20403  00001.404
226            SW dlb.n~                                        0006  0005  0.3191 0.026  0.3050  0.0771 0.029005   0.029                          01145  0642  0.256
2271                                                                          0.75m               0.2529               01207                                     15018             40%  0 470                                   60%  02306               1 1361
239
NF  00475  0005  0.120.04 0.1001.5   0.4    0.1   000 0.12 5 I._012                    01650  01204  0.754
230                                             0.4  ..c/n,   0 000  0 63    .D   000000 0.030                  000   0OD                               0050D  00300I
201 T.W  baw     C?                                             00005  0 072  0.50020 O    .5    .5   O 2             0  .2                        00050  00152  0.002
232  Pbysiw C..fig~~i.    10%                   0.0693  0.020  251   2620  03825  009   0.979  0.243  12543                        05005  04413  0.045
233                  S.b                                        0.46   0.063  0.509  0.000  0.004  0.154  0.000  0.010  0.13                       0.715I 0.19  0.853
268       M.Cigk                                               0.290  2.446  1.636  0.204  1.405  0.057  0.149  0.466  0.507                      05334  3366  0.449
L30          G8W.h.,dM   ,                                      0.6150.1   0.3610 0.17.31   0.319   0.00  000   0.250                              10013  060D  10.43
237            SW3dsh      I0.0697  0.032  0.152  0.oi   0.220  0.210  0.0000.2   0.022                                                            0097  01452  0.248
271.                                                                          0.369               0.292                 101 227.3301                                                D    .4                                      D        5               .0
237
24 4T.   bASE04E49   .40   .69X.0S   .16A.m4 .4g30.11   1. 2T60  440    l6b



I     A                  a          C             0         E                     I                     K       L  I          N         0         P  a      R                 I             99vI     X  IY  IAS IAC IAD IAE IAF IAG  AI                     Al    AJ
El                                                                                               1997                  1999                   1999                TALFINAN4CING WWIC
I                                                                   L      P      T       L  IF         T       L       F      T      L       F      T       L      F      T      I    WBI             U   I       Ma I   EI2  I I          U     L_0I0h
27  I1.AMA.W 5.,      T     L  A-B-,
27  ~ ~~~~~~~~~mNBF                                          0.000  0.093  0.102  0.099  0.091  0.10200 9 0.009C        0 097                         0.027  0.272  0.299
27-        ft  cal Corn -I          5%                               0.000  0.021   0.005  0.0K   0.M2   0.025   0020  000D4  0000                            0.001  0.014  0.015
27 IS.,bT.                                                           0.010  0.000  0.107  C.0W   0.006  0.102   0.009  0.092  0.102                           0029  0.206  0.314
2TY       fti. owC   irn us$                                         0.004  0.002  11.007  0.007  0.000  0.012   0019O  0007  0.017                           0.022  0.014  0.036
279            SWE di.abn.au0.100  0.100                                                          0.100  0.100           0.100  0. [O                         0.0K0  0.300  0.30
2      MLIoUS4  o,            ~0.014                                         0.014  0.017          0.017   0.019         0.019                         0.000  0.000  0.s.
2*11014                                                                                                    .1011035                                                                                           14%  0.00I                        0%. 0.300                  0.550
NF   0.024  0.135  0.100   0.01407136 0K 10 00112M 0.4                                        0.011  0.000   0.01
20R. T         OBWd0O.014u0.143  0.1130.1   0.143  0.112 0040.4    .5                                                                                         0.000  0.4222  0.225
2     MaWri   doo 6,mnus006   .4 0.010                                          0.014        .0 0.016      mo 0.016                     0.030 0.033OM    0.05
204  NORW db~~~~                                       0.146  0.14~6 027           0 010            0140.28                                 01  040.2 50                                  %00                     S02503
301                                        ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NBF  0.80K   6.342   0.142   0.0K   0.1023  0.102                          0.000  0.267  0.147
230        ftk    -U1i              5%                               0.0K0  0.007  0.007  0.001  0.021   0.001                                                0.0KI  0.000  0.020
304k SOTI                                                            0.0K0  0.349  0.10  0.0K9  0.026  0.026                                                  0.019  0.2175  0.236
P.1w COR           m ISb                                         .     0.1103 . 0.0113       0.002  0.113                                                0.0K0  0.225  0.225
N91    MWWAk,.n0am0.14                                                   3 0.014  0 0.02   0.026                                                        0.0K0  0.100   0.30"
0.127  0.1n                              0.255                            12%   0.03             &BS 0.225                              0.235~~~~~~~~I
3001~~~~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
0 BASENEW2.XLW                                                                                                                                                                                                                AawuaS Table lb.420.42D.  fn    .0  J0.00   016   016



A                a          C                     0         F   0              2 I  I J      K    I L      N      N      0                    ft                 UI WY                                   AD0  AES  AF IAG    AlIl              A
1                     1~~~~~997            1990                  2999               TOTA.L                                                    FINAN4CING WWIC
33                                       ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NSF  a.013  6.043  0.058  0.0411  0.04   0.016   0.0121 0.040  0.024   8.014  0.AI5  0.014  0.043  0.110  0.1223
ftlk                         10%wf                            0.101  0.0            -OD[010   0.002  D.007  0.0102  0.00   0.105   0.001  0.OD   0.0   0.004  0.018  0.022
l4aSk,.                                                      0.024  0.050  0.004  0.022  0.000  0.064  0.0161  0.050  0.02   0.016  0.010  0.02   0.047  0.190  0.246
hi4 prom                                                        0.067  0101  0.106I 0.0109  0.002  0.02_2  0.022  0.014  0.023   0.023  O.00   0.020  0.042  0.027  0.104
34TOTrAL
SW 66S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ns ~~~~0.043  0.045                               0.042  0.045          0.045  0.012         0.035  0.033  0.OD   0.270  0.22
(340 d.M,nuw                                                    0.023   .0   0.023  0.0201020.7              0.432  0260.022   0.435  .02   0.043   0.2009  0.0421 0.220
3371 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.1                          0.          073    -            0.076                0.019                0.300                                                            60%  0.270   43S%  0. 22l0 .3100
334
34118           ______                                   S        0.0140,0 6.44064 017         .5    .6      .1    .5    .5   OOl000000 0107  0.197  0.0467
325  pnctC    =.. cm 0 01 02                                                     08Oo9 00022                                                          om1 004001    .1   005002  4   01023  0.062
31TOTrAL                                                                    -m -             =-
344W04   0.075                                                                                                                                                      00321%0050 7
3451OLh.  ~    ~          ~         52 S.2.d.044   .06046040  04 0.0455005. 0.                                 04        -0030050100  0102  01702
ft ~~~~~ca2Co,g ~~~~~~~~  5%                  om~002   0102S  0.022  0.02   0.1027008OO2OW.031 2                                   om .2   005   .9   0001  0.130
3461  ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~           ~     m    090.049  o.              0 047073 047                                         om   0046  0.0967~010 43                                                                             .3   .0
30        m        ~        10                     I        om0  .0102  010267     .    G.                                                     I 2OmD  01047  01047
30  WBd2.S.n                                            0023  0022~~~~~~~~~~~~OOD   0.027  00.022                                     om0   om 00030
37 c56od.fvwmeO   4025025 002 0                                                                 0.022                                             0 mD   00020  00302
371   ..                                                              .07                        0.0530000.7   0207 2%0002%    .1   .1
37  84SE~~~ST, Reg4..d~~~.2.MIN..h.,j.           0027~O   0309  03276  0.2    .43026 0.2    .23009 004002   0                         00   05062  0.662
0120090.0       220.30 0.07323 0 0.0073                 03       .m Gm    060.020   00732  0.062
PM   SASE.I4EW                                            0.0.00 00A..O2                                                                       0.                                                                                         T .0020.00



I     A                B         C            D     I   0      F     0  I   4      I      JI  K    I L         H     N  10  1  P          0  1R  IS            TI U  IV  I9 W         0     Y IAD IAC IAD IAE IAF IAG  AI                 Al IAJ
o I                                                                          12           1997                 1990                 1999               TOTAL                                                   FINAS4CING WWIC
0                                                               L      F      T  IL         F     T      L      F      T      L      F      T      L      F  IT        I    W  I   II GoU    I1020I6II           6II       2NO     IM   IJi          IQIn  
382 E-b-sn..      Pl.I o4db  Adl,kI. t.1th. Uw LW..  Rl,e S.A.
3831
m-iM,l,gda                   NBF       0.000  0.074  0.074  O.00   0.054  0.054  0.005  8.004  0.05.4                     0.D   0.102  0.182
38  l   .Cm.em-- __%              _                    0_40  0054  0054  00ODD  0m03  005D3  0005O  0.003  0.003                          0005  000D9  054D9
34S..6TT46                                                    0540  0.078  00C78  0.00   0.057  0.057  0.054  0.057  0 057                       0.00   0.191  0.191
387      Pi. C~iM-mUS$                                         -5-00   - 0-02 -005-2  0.054005O3  0.053  0005O  0.544  0.054                      0.005    0059  0 059
38d   ..d0 08   0005                                                               000   05460          0.061  0.061                       005   0.20   0205                                     105% 0.205                                      0.200
4l7TgNlFF,ab,s.,w                                               o      00095  0.090  00801703    07    12    16    0000103902   03735  0005                                                 I      I 
45  TagJSWd,.ag..n..,,.g                                        0540 oooo  000  050   0100                 0003    11 07              0201   03000   0093  03005
341  bTOW.a00..e.u0.005  0.105  0.100    m                                                  0      50 0          (5 0          0500   050.0o    0105  0.105
345  M..JZ0C-ifte..      US$0057  04000600.27    34 00703   07                                                                 04  0131  014  020    1059D  1070
42 ITe*F,M.ig.le                      ____                       05    070          00902    03             m 01602            00   0305   0020 -ou  -Lis-o 
3971  Od- dmbwse~00140010 005    0601    01 00    0601                                                         1 0001301420338  0.036  0376 --                                                                              -
i, pi. F         NB        006F007  0 04 000   0037  0123   0123  0.051  01443  01036  002   0164  0349  0A44  02490
kw C-ti.2-i.  10%           ~010073  033O.W   06005  0609.0003    0.1340.09 104                                  OS0 00,.013  1.405  1.505
401    S.6        )013I 4   13   0.049  1.054  0.09407036 410.3660011 607                                                       3005    .U 0.3338  3.0065  0.2
443   m                                                                                                                                                                 0.00200050.32   .090.6050.                                0.6.0S    .0  0.4050.14   I.0  0070
1312baa0(5   17   07   0.06   0.023  0.025  0.005  0.05   0.13   0.07   0.06   0.13   0.22   02548  0.20050%040                                                                                                                                      .0
445 Go.om.... d Sw~~d..    I                      0 ~~  0 140  0 140F0.407   0.M3  0.1057  0.030  0.00   0.017   0070  0.030  O0.13   0.250  0.443  0.6750
448       cm .o.~~F,4a     I    lo%00 000 0000  0.117  0.100   0076  0.03  0.096  0.070  0.061  0.139  0.222  0.370  0.005
447 l)3~~~~~~~g ~~~                        0044  0 131  0 174 ~~~~~~~~~0.04. 0032  0.090   0.073  0.030  0.063  0.053  0.020  0.052  0.254  0o 90 0405
448  aaol                                  0044  0326  0769 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0253  0.002  0.027  0.190213 .1  .1   05    .3    .3   1.213  01.12
T~~o.I lORD                     I 532  I 570  3 154  1.225  1.539 2.764  0.~~~~~~~~ 0.261  0.261   0  0.04060  0.004560_02737  3.444  6.254OD
408IS T.4alw.ko024 I I719                                                            0.15.2  0.03106 .090  0.093  0.0374  0.070   0.543  0.0320  0.1002  0.204.4  03.05   4.05110                                                      .0                 .0
402 Tool*m F -1,a    P A      . .VNLkq   t             B      I004  0.121  1.169  0.70fS0 1321  01.96  0.063  0.131  0.141  0.060  0.107  0.1376  0.637  02713  0.370
432TocolWOdl.                                                   0044  01310  5174  0.009  0.032  0.080  0.057  0.002  0.543   0.063  0.070  0.547  0.206  0.095  0.405                                                                                   ____ 
419iT.W 00-  0.000  0.100  0.100. 0.000. 0.000   Mo. 0.000, 0.00(  0.000  0.0w. 0.000  0.000  0.000. 0. IOD  0.100                                 I                      1~~~~~~~~~~~l.
4201    A0S79E0.271XLW0.A7 0.l493. TabL o   La



ANNEX 5
9
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN BY YEAR
US $ million
Bank Fiscal Year (July 1 - June 30)     1.99    1998   1992   20     Total
wwIc
IBRD (loan)                             2.93   2.76   0.26   0.05    6.00
Min. of Environment Finland (grant)     0.60   0.90   0.00   0.00    1.50
Government of Norway (grant)            0.74   0.61   0.15   0.00    1.50
SIDA, Sweden (grant)                    1.74   1.66   0.61   0.00    4.00
Gov. of Lithuania (grant)               3.06   3.32   1.22   0.00    7.60
Municipality of Siauliai (grant)        0.07   0.12   0.13   0.07    0.40
Subtotal    9.14   9.37   2.37   0.12   21.00
EMC
IBRD (loan)                             0.18   0.02   0.00   0.00    0.20
Government of Sweden (grant)            0.14   0.20   0.16   0.16    0.65
Govermnent of Finland (grant)           0.08   0.19   0.20   0.14    0.60
Other (grant)                           0.17   0.08   0.06   0.08    0.40
Subtotal    0.57   0.49   0.42   0.38    1.85
TOTAL                                   9.71   9.86   2.79   0.50   22.85



ANNEX 5
10
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN BY FINANCER
US $ million
Izal                ForeiD                Tota
USA                  1. UL$     YE                   .1
WWIC
IBRD (loan)                             2.76       12%       3.24       14%       6.00       26%
Min. of Environment Finland (grant)     0.00       0%         1.50      7%         1.50      7%
Government of Norway (grant)            0.02       0%         1.48      6%         1.50      7%
SIDA, Sweden (grant)                    0.33        1%       3.67       16%       4.00       18%
Gov. of Lithuania (grant)               6.96       30%       0.65       3%         7.60      33%
Municipality of Siauliai (grant)        0.40       2%        0.00       0%        0.40        2%
Subtotal   10.46     46%        10.54     46%       21.00      92%
EMC
IBRD (loan)                             0.00       0%        0.20        1%       0.20        1%
Government of Sweden (grant)            0.21        1 %      0.44       2%        0.65        3%
Government of Finland (grant)           0.22        1 %      0.38       2%        0.60        3%
Other (grant)                           0.21        1%       0.19        1%       0.40        2%
Subtotal   0.64       3%        1.21       5%        1.85       8%
TOTAL                                   11.10                11.75                22.85



11                                                               ANNEX 5
Table 4: Procurement Arrangements
(US $ mrllion)
Total
Project Element                                        ICB      Other        N.B.F.         Cost
A. WATER AND WASTEWATER
COMPONENT (WWIC)
Equipment aDd Cliv Works
Water Suly
Birute, Water Quality Improvement         5.31                                 5.31
Replacement of Punps                     0.26                        0.26
Spare Parts                     0.10   2                   0.10
020Q                       QifO
Sub total                                                5.67
iLa
Wastewater and Sewerane Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of Sewer Network                                1.56          1.56
Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations                              1.35           1.35
Rehabilitation of Old WWTP                    0.12                        0.12
Sub total                                                3.03
New Wastewater Treatment Plant
Main Pumping Station                                  1.56          1.56
Pre-treatment                                  0.58          0.58
Raising Main            1.48                   0.60          2.08
0.2                                  012
Aeration                                   1.52          1.52
Secondary Sedimentation                                  1.10          1.10
Dewatering of Sludge                                  0.95          0.95
Heat. Electricity. Plumbing                                1.19          1.19
Areal Civil Works                                  1.30          1.30
Sub total                                                10.28
n.2
Intitutinnal Sup,oortTwinnrin Arrangement
Leakage Detection                                  0.26          0.26
Information Technology                                  0.18          0.18
Sub total                                                0.44
Premises                      0.03   4                   0.03
Office equipment                     0.03   4                   0.03
0.03                       03
Vehicle/s                     0.02   4                   0.02
112 
Sub total                                                0.08
C    _mauta  Services
Water StLv and Wastewater
TariffStudy                     0.03                        0.03
0P0                        0.03
Sub total                                                0.13
0.03
tInutional Sunnort/Twinning Arrangement
TA/Training for New WWTP & laboratory                                  0.35           0.35
TA/Training for Water Supply and Management                                 0.53          0.53
Sub total                                                0.88
PIU Support/Project Supervision                  0.34   6                    0.34
PIU Training                     0.02                        0.02
Local Staff Salaries & Admin. costs                              0.24          0.24
Sub total                                                0.60
Ail



ANNEX 5
12
Total
Project Elernent                                             ICB       Other          N.B.F.          Cost
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
COMPONENT (EMC)
Equipment, Works and Consulting Services
Regional Environmental Monitoring
Lielupe River Basin Commission                                        0.30            0.30
Portable Monitoring and Laboratory Systems                                       0.30            0.30
Point Source Pollution Control in Pig Farms                                     0.40            0.40
Non-Point Source Pollution Control                                       0.30           0.30
Sub total                                                       1.30
Equipment
Environmental Protection Activities in the Upper Lielupe River Basin
Monitoring Systems                                                     0.08                           0.08
am                            11dam
Laboratory System                                                      0.07                           0.07
Q1!Z                          LQZ
Sub total                                                       0.15
Consultant Services
Environmental Protection Activities in the Upper Lielupe River Basin
Management Plan for Industrial Pollution Reduction                                     0.20           0.20
Managemnent Plan for Sludge                                                            0.10           0.10
Technical Assistance and Training                                       0.10                          0.10
am                            05
Sub total                                                       0.30
TOTAL                                                       6.78        1.20          14.86           22.85
Total World Bank             5LO         LII                             .2
.n1fdi,i  alm,eM in iflict = IBRD loan financed
N.B.F - Not Bank Financed
'Internamonal Shopping = US S million   0.41
2 Direct Contracting = US S million   0.10
National Competetive Bidding = Us S million   0.12
' National Shopping = US S million   0.08
'Sole Source/lnov. = Us S million   0.15
'Short Usuing Form = US S million   0.34
total   1.20



ANNEX 5
Table 5: IWPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES - SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES
Preparation of
Estimated Cost    Procurement        Bidding     Tender Documents                                        Contract
(US $million)      Method          Documents          Issued        Bid Submitted    Contract Signed    Completed
A. WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPONENT
Equipment and Works
Water Supply
Birnte, Water Quality Improvement                          5.31              ICB        Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Nov-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Replacement of Pumps                                       0.26              IS         Mar-96 - May-96       Jun-96           Aug-96           Sep-96           Apr-97
Spare Parts                                                0.10         Direct Contr.   Mar-96 - May-96       Jun-96             n/a            Aug-96           Dec-96
Wastewater and Sewerage Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of Sewer Network                            1.56             NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations                          1.35            NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Rehabilitation of Old WWTP                                 0.12             NCB         Mar-96 - May-96       May-96           Jul-96           Jul-96           Mar-97
New Wastewater Treatment Plant
Main Pumping Station                                       1.56             NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Pre-treatment                                              0.58             NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
ICB (pipes)
Raising Main                                               2.08       NBF NCB (works) Mar-96 - Aug-96         Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Aeration                                                   1.52             NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Secondary Sedimentation                                     1.10            NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Dewatering of Sludge                                       0.95             NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Heat, Electricity, Plumbing                                1.19             NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Areal Civil Works                                          1.30             NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Sep-96           Dec-96           Feb-97           Oct-98
Institutional Support/Twinning Arrangement                                                                                                                                                     U
Leakage Detection                                          0.26             NBF          Mar-97 - Jun-97      Jul-97           Nov-97           Dec-97           Apr-98
information Technology                                     0.18             NBF           Jun-96-Jul-96       Jul-96           Aug-96           Aug-96           Oct-96
Project Implementation Unit
Premises                                                   0.03              NS          Nov-95-Dec-95        Jan-96           Feb-96           Feb-96           Mar-96
Office equipment                                           0.03              NS          Nov-95-Dec-95        Jan-96           Feb-96           Feb-96           Mar-96
Vehide/s                                                   0.02              NS          Nov-95-Dec-95        Jan-96           Feb-96           Feb-96           Mar-96
Consulting Services
Water and Wastewater
Tariff Study                                               0.03        Sole Source/Indv.  Nov-95-Dec-95       Jan-96           Feb-96           Feb-96            Jun-96
Institutional Support/Twinning Arrangement
TA/Training for New WWTP & laboratory                      0.35              NBF               n/a              n/a              n/a              n/a            Jun-99
TA/Training for Water Supply and Management                0.53              NBF               n/a              n/a              n/a              n/a             Jun-99
Project Implementation Unit
PIU Support/Project Supervision                            0.34            Shortist.     Oct-95-Nov-95        Nov-95           Dec-95           Dec-95            Dec-97
PIU Training                                               0.02        Sole Source/Indv.  Oct-95-Nov-95       Nov-95           Dec-95           Dec-95            Jan-95                         >
Local Staff Salaries & Admin. costs                        0.24              NBF               n/a              n/a              n/a              n/a             Jul-99:
CD
Sub Total     21.00                                                                                                                                 t



ANNEX 5
Preparation of
Estimated Cost    Procurement         Bidding     Tender Documents                                         Contract
(US Smnillion)      Method          Documents          Issued        Bid Submitted    Contract Signed     Completed
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
(EMC)
Equipment, Works and Consulfting Services
Lielupe River Basin Commission                              0.30             NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Aug-96           Nov-96            Jan-97            Sep-98
Portable Monitoring and Laboratory Systems                  0.30              NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Aug-96           Nov-96            Jan-97           Sep-98
Point Source Pollution Control in Pig Farms                 0.40              NBF         Mar-96 - Aug-96       Aug-96           Nov-96            Jan-97           Sep-98
Non-Point Source Pollution Control                          0.30              NBF         Mar-9% - Aug-96       Aug-96           Nov-96            Jan-97           Sep-98
Equipment
Monitoring Systems                                          0.08              IS          Mar-96-May-96        May-96            Jun-96           Jun-96            Oct-96
Laboratory System                                           0.07              IS          Mar-96-May-96        May-96            Jun-96           Jun-96            Oct-96
Consulting Services
Management Plan for Industrial Pollution Reduction          0.20              NBF          Jun-96-Aug-96        Aug-96           Oct-96           Nov-96            Dec-97
Management Plan for Sludge                                  0.10              NBF         Mar-96-May-96        May-96            Apr-96            Apr-96           Oct-96
Technicl Assitance and Training                             0.10        Sole Source/indy.  Mar-96-Apr-96        Apr-96           May-96           May-96            Dec-97
Sub Total      1.85
TOTAL         22.85
CD



15                                                                  ANNEX 5
Table 6: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
US $ Mlillon
IBRD               Local
Amount    %      Contribution    %    Grants     %       Total
A. WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPONENT
Equipment and Works
Water Supply
Birute, Water Quality Improvement                       4.67     88%        0.64      12%                       5.31
Replacement of Pumps                                    0.25     94%       0.02       6%                        0.26
Spare Parts                                             0.10    100%                                            0.10
Wastewater and Sewerage Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of Sewer Network                                             0.91     59%      0.64     41%      1.56
Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations                                          0.48     36%      0.87     64%      1.35
Rehabilitation of Old WWTP                              0.10     80%        0.02     20%                        0.12
New Wastewater Treatment Plant
Main Pumping Station                                                        0.93     59%      0.63     41%      1.56
Pre-treatment                                                               0.09      16%     0.49     84%      0.58
Raising Main                                            0.42     20%        1.66     80%               0%       2.08
Aeration                                                                    0.24      16%     1.28     84%      1.52
Secondary Sedimentation                                                     0.72      65%     0.39     35%      1.10
Dewatering of Sludge                                                       0.38      40%      0.57     60%      0.95
Heat, Electricity, Plumbing                                                 0.47     40%      0.72     60%      1.19
Areal Civil Works                                                           1.04     80%      0.26     20%      1.30
Institutional Support/Twinning Arrangement
Leakage Detection                                                           0.03      12%     0.22     88%      0.26
Information Technology                                                      0.00      0%      0.18    100%      0.18
Project Implementation Unit
Premises                                                0.03     100%                                           0.03
Office equipment                                        0.03     100%                                           0.03
Vehicle/s                                               0.02     100%                                           0.02
Consultant Services
Water and Wastewater
Tariff Study                                            0.03     100%                                           0.03
Institutional Support/Twinning Arrangement
TA/Training for New WWTP & laboratory                                       0.05      14%     0.30     86%      0.35
TA/Training for Water Supply and Management                                0.08       14%     0.45     86%      0.53
Project Implementation Unit
PIU Support/Project Supervision                         0.34     100%                                           0.34
PIU Training                                            0.02     100%                                           0.02
Local Staff Salaries & Admin. costs                                        0.24      100%                       0.24
Sub Total  6.00               8.00               7.00             21.00
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
(EMC)
Eqgupment, Works and ConsultIng Services
Lielupe River Basin Commission                                                               0.30    100%      0.30
Portable Monitoring and Laboratory Systems                                                    0.30    100%      0.30
Point Source Pollution Control in Pig Farms                                                   0.40    100%      0.40
Non-Point Source Pollution Control                                                            0.30    100%      0.30
Equipment
Monitoring Systems                                     0.08     100%                                           0.08
Laboratory System                                      0.07     100%                                           0.07
Consulting Services
Management Plan for Industrial Pollution Reduction                                            0.20    100%      0.20
Management Plan for Sludge                                                                    0.10    100%      0.10
Technical Assistance and Training                       0.05     50%       0.05      50%                        0.10
Sub Total  0.20               0.05               1.60              1.85
Totd Disbursement                                       6.20                8.05              8.60             22.85



16                                         ANNEX 5
Table 7: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
StandardDisbursement
FY            Quarter        Loan Disbursement   Cumulative %             Profile
From Approval      Quarter Cumulative       Total       Sector*    Regional **
FY 1996          II           0.11        0.11          2%           0%          0%
FY 1997         VI            1.00        1.11         18%           6%          6%
FY 1998          X            2.27        3.38         55%           18%         14%
FY 1999         XIV           2.68        6.06         98%          38%          26%
FY 2000         XVI           0.14        6.20         100%         50%          30%
Loan Closing Date:            30-Jun-00
* All regions - sector set.
** Region - sector set. (ECA)



Annex 6
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Environmental Review of the Water and Wastewater Improvement Component






1                                   ANNEX 6
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
Introduction
1.           Environmental Review. Development of the proposed Project has included preparation
of an environmental review consistent with the requirements of the Lithuanian "Rules for the Elaboration
of 'Environmental Protection' Section of a Study (RSN 153-93)" and the provisions of World Bank,
Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment" for a project in screening category "B." The
environmental review was prepared by specialists from Scanvironment (Sweden) with financial support
from BITS of Sweden.
2.           Consultation Process. The environrmental review for the proposed Project was prepared
in coordination with the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MoEP), Siauliai Regional Environmental
Protection Office (S-REPO), and Siauliai Municipal Environment Department (SMED). In addition,
consultations have been conducted by both the Bank and consultants with representatives of the
Municipality of Siauliai (MS) and Siauliai Water (SW). Meetings have also been conducted by the Bank
with representatives of the Latvian Ministry of Environment and Regional Development and the Jelgava
Regional Environmental Protection Committee to review current transboundary pollution impacts and to
assess benefits from planned pollution control measures to be supported under the proposed Project
3.           Protection of the Baltic Sea. Environmental conditions in the waters around the coast
of the Baltic Sea are presently in the focus of research, monitoring, and national and international
measures. Major remediation efforts are expected in the drainage area of the Baltic Sea to fulfil
international agreements. For this purpose, a Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program was
initiated to implement nutrient reducing measures around the Baltic Sea, especially in the eastern part of
the drainage area (e.g. Russia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland). The decision to develop the Joint
Comprehensive Program reflects the recognition that the environment problems of the Baltic Sea and its
catchment area are inextricably bound together and that their solutions require cooperative actions. Many
corrective measures and pollution control investments should be carried out in parallel in order to improve
the ecological condition in the Baltic Sea, its coastal zone and its catchment area. Municipal wastewater
treatment plants, discharging directly into the Baltic Sea or its sub-basins, have a more direct effect than
treatment plants located upstream on rivers. However, it is also necessary to conduct measures upstream
in river basins, since those would, in addition to impacts on the Baltic Sea, have significant improvements
locally and regionally in the river drainage basin.
Existing Situation
4.           Municipality of Siauliai.  The proposed project is part of the Baltic Sea Joint
Comprehensive Environmental Action Program. MS has been identified as one of 132 "hot spots", which
are significant sources of pollution. The MS, with a population of about 147,000 people, is situated in the



2                                    ANNEX 6
northern part of Lithuania, on the border between the drainage basins of the Lielupe River in the north and
the River Nemunas in the south. The major industries in the Siauliai region are mainly in the agricultural
sector; e.g. dairy, meat processing factories, brewery and soft drinks, glucose production, and tanneries
and leather industries. Other industries are the bicycle and moped industry, as well as furniture and
electronic industries.
5.           Water and Wastewater Treatment in Siauliai. The existing wastewater treatment plant
in Siauliai serves about 85% of the city's population (about 125,000 persons). All, except one industrial
plant which has its own treatment plant, are connected to public sewer system. Households not connected
to a sewer system have either pit latrines or septic tanks which discharge directly to the Kulpe River via
small ditches. The wastewater treatment plant is situated close to the expanding city. The poorly treated
water from the overloaded plant has had a significant detrimental influence on the receiving water, the
Kulpe River down to the confluence with Musa River some 20 km from Siauliai. Although the diminished
industrial activity has resulted in a reduced load of organic matter (BOD); from about 10 tons/day to about
2-3 tons BOD/day (corresponding to decreased effluent concentrations of about 200 mg/I to about 70 mg/I),
the discharge level remains high (HELCOM recommendation for BOD is 15 mg/l). Available analysis of
the NH4-N concentration in the effluent water from the wastewater treatment plant, made by the laboratory
at the plant, gives a load of about 305 tons NH4-N/year, corresponding to a concentration of 22 mg/I.
Respective figures for total phosphorus are 70 tons/year and 4.7 mg/l which is considerably higher than
HELCOM recommendation of 1.5 mg/l.
6.           To verify the accuracy of effluent quality data the discharges of nitrogen and phosphorus
from the wastewater treatment plant have also been calculated using average load figures per person widely
used worldwide. The methodology assumed the following parameters:
(a)    Nitrogen (N). 150,000 persons x 85 % connected x 10 g N/person and day = 465
tons N/year + 210 tons N/year from the connected industries = 675 tons N/year -
25 % reduction (assumed) of N in the wastewater treatment plant = about 500 tons
N/year discharged annually from the wastewater treatment plant; and
(b)    Phosphorus (P). 150,000 persons x 85 % connected x 2.5 g P/person and day =
120 tons P/year + 30 tons P/year from the connected industries = 150 tons
P/year - 50% reduction (assumed) of P in the wastewater treatrnent plant = about
75 tons P/year discharged annually from the wastewater treatment plant.
The calculated loads above are higher than the measured ones (25 % for N and 8 % for P). Later on this
environment review uses data for BOD and suspended solids provided by SW but P and N loads are based
on the above calculations. The summary is presented in Table 1.



3                                    ANNEX 6
Table 1.     Discharge of BOD, suspended solids, nitrogen and phosphorus to the Kulpe River from
the Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Parameter            | Discharge to the Kulpe River, Discharge to the Kulpe River,
______________  mg/i                   tons/year
BOD                                70                          1,000
Suspended solids, SS               70                          1,000
Nitrogen, N                        35                           500
Phosphorus, P                       5                            75
7.           Discharges from unconnected households and stormwater, are not included in the above
estimates as no analysis is available to make a proper estimate. Those would probably add some 10 to 15
% to the loads presented in Table 1. As the Project will not have any impact on discharges from areas
without sewer or from the stormwater system, they have not been included in the analysis later on.
8.           The Kulpe River. The Kulpe River is a small tributary to the Musa River, which together
with the Memele River, are the two main tributaries to the Lielupe River. The Musa River is the collecting
river for all small tributaries from the Lithuanian part of the drainage area. The Musa River flows initially
east-wards, finally turning north and crossing the boarder between Lithuania and Latvia. The main sources
of the Kulpe River, Lake Rekyva and Siauliai Reservoir are located south of Siauliai. The total length of
the Kulpe River is about 35 km. The river length through the city is about 8 kIn, 7 lan are situated
upstream of the city of Siauliai and about 20 km downstream of the city. In the upper part of the river the
width is less than 1 m and before the river enters the Musa River the width is about 5 m. At certain parts
the river has been channeled off from its natural meandering downstream to the Musa River through
agricultural landscape. The agricultural land in the drainage area of the Kulpe River is extensively drained,
thus causing drainage water with nutrients to be transported from the soil to the river.
9.           The water flow in the Kulpe River is limited, especially during the summer season, when
only small volumes of water leave Lake Rekyva and the reservoir. The water flow in the Kulpe River,
during the dry period of May-July consists of nearly 100% of discharges from the wastewater treatment
plant, transforming the river into a highly polluted "septic ditch".
10.          No accurate water flow measurements have been carried out on the Kulpe River. The
annual mean water flow at the outlet of Lake Rekyva can be estimated at 0.3 m3/s and at 1 m3 /s in the
confluence with the Musa River. Annual variation in the water flow upstream of the wastewater treatment
plant can be great, with a water flow in the summer of 0.0 m3/s, and a water flow > 25 m3/s during spring
thaw and fall rainy season. Estimated water flow characteristics for the Kulpe River are shown in
Table 2.



4                                    ANNEX 6
Table 2.      Estimated water flow in the Kulpe River
Location                                Water flow, m3/s   |   Water flow, MIll.
_______________________________[          j        113/year
The outlet of Lake Rekyva                      0.3                     9.5
Effluent from WWTP (measured)                (0.46)                  (14.6)
Downstream (1 Iam) of the WWTP                 0.8                    25.2
At the confluence with the Musa River           1                     31.5
11.          No comprehensive physical-chemical and biological measurements has been taken in the
River Kulpe. The lack of accurate monitoring makes the evaluation of the present situation in the Kulpe
River and the environmental effects of the implementation of the proposed Project difficult. Table 3
illustrates figures for the water quality in the Kulpe River for 1994. These values have been obtained from
the laboratory at the wastewater treatment plant.
Table 3.      1994 annual mean of BOD, NH4 and PQ  upstream and 1 km downstream of the
wastewater treatment plant
Parameter,              Upstream of 1       1 km
mg/I                    the WWVTP    downstream of
the WWTP
BOD                         7.6             50.2
NH4                         1.08            10.7  1)
P04                         0.18              1.8  1)
I) Figures for nitrogen and phosphorous downstream of WWTP seem very
low as the load from WWTP should raise the concentration levels much
higher actually many fold.
12.           In the following Table 4 transport of pollutants upstream from WWTP is based on the data
of Tables 2 and 3. As the quality data (Table 3) downstream of WWTP do not seem to correspond with
the real situation, the transport loads 1 km downstream and at the confluence with the Musa River have
been calculated using load data from WWTP and information about non point pollution from similar
conditions (agricultural land use pattern).



5                                    ANNEX 6
Table 4.      Estimated transport of PO4-P, total phosphorus, NH4 -N and total nitrogen upstream and
1 kan downstream of the wastewater treatment plant, and in the Kulpe River, just before
the confluence with the Musa River. Loads from WWTP presented in brackets.
Parameter,          Tranport upstream      Transport 1 km      Estimated transport
tons/year             of the WWTP         downstream of the    in the Kulpe River
WWTP              just before the
confluence with the
Musa River
P04-P  1)                  0.6                    40                    50
Total phosphorus            1.2                    80 (75)             100
NH4-N 2)                    8.0                  450                   750
Total nitrogen              11                    600 (500)            1000
t) The total phosphorus concentration is assumed to be 2 times the P04-P concentration.
2)  NH4-N concentration is assumed to be 75% of the total nitrogen concentration.
12.           The Musa River. The Musa River is the collecting river for all small tributaries from the
Lithuanian part of the drainage area. The River flows initially eastward and later on turns north passing
the boarder of Lithuania and Latvia. The Lielupe River Basin Management Project financed by BITS has
established a few sampling stations along the River Musa. Unfortunately the data was not yet available
when this study was made. However, the collected data can be utilized during the monitoring phase of the
Proposed Project.
13.           The discharge of insufficiently treated wastewater from Siauliai city has a significant
impact on the aquatic ecosystems downstream of Siauliai; the Kulpe River and the Musa River. The
adverse impact is characterized by bad hygienic conditions, increased primary production, oxygen
deficiency, odor problems, fish kills, etc. Since available nitrogen and phosphorus figures for these rivers
are scare and the accuracy is questionable, it is not possible to calculate in detail the impact from the
Siauliai wastewater treatment plant. However, there is no doubt that the nitrogen and phosphorus
discharged from Siauliai city are the main source of nutrients transported in the two rivers. No other point
sources of this volume are located in the area.
14.           The Lielupe River. The Lithuanian part of the Lielupe basin comprises 11 administrative
districts, of which four are entirely situated within the basin, while the Latvian part covers a total of 9
districts. A total of about 843,000 inhabitants live within the borders of the Lielupe basin; 58%, or 485,000
on the Lithuanian side of the border, and 355,000 on the Latvian side. The Lielupe River is, with a water
flow at its mouth of roughly 110 m3/s, the second largest river discharging into the Gulf of Riga. The river
basin covers 17,600 km2 of land, equally distributed between the republics of Latvia and Lithuania, with
the upper reaches situated in the latter. The Lielupe river discharges at the city of Jurmala, about 20 km
west from Riga and the mouth of the larger Daugava river (discharge 680 m3/s).



6                                     ANNEX 6
15.           The runoff from the Lielupe basin constitutes about 12% of the total annual discharge to
the Gulf of Riga. The nitrogen contribution of Lielupe into the Gulf of Riga is about 20 %. Other data from
the lower reaches of the Lielupe river shows concentrations of nitrogen more than three times higher, and
phosphorus almost double as high as in comparable parts of the Daugava river (data from the beginning
of the 1990's). According to recent estimates about 12,000 tons of nitrogen (NO3-N) are annually
transported in the Lielupe River and discharged to the Gulf of Riga, and the annual phosphorus load is
about 200 tons (P04-P).
16.           Most of the pollution load of BOD (about 90%) and phosphorus (about 30%) of the
Lielupe River comes from urban areas (mainly municipal wastewater treatment plants receiving effluents
from both households and industries). The generally high pollution load from the treatment plants is mainly
a result of inferior treatment facilities, but also poor operation practices and toxic industrial sewage
discharged without pre-treatment into sewer system lower the effectiveness of treatment plants. The total
load from all urban areas (municipal sewage treatment plants) within the Lielupe River basin is estimated
to be approximately 7,200 tons of BOD/year, about 1,500 tons of nitrogen/year and about 230 tons of
phosphorus/year.
17.           The Gulf of Riga. Gulf of Riga is characterized by a high ratio of river outflow in
relation to volume, the low mean depth and the exchange of water with the rest of the Baltic Sea. The
changes of the water quality in the river discharge and in the Baltic Sea are well reflected in the Gulf of
Riga. During the last 20 years there have been increases in the winter loads of phosphorus and nitrogen,
giving an increased primary production. In spite of the increased nutrient supply, the oxygen concentrations
in the Gulf of Riga are not alarming. The ratio between phosphorus and nitrogen loads, together with
concentration measurements during the vegetation season, indicate that the primary production in the Gulf
of Riga is limited by phosphorus.
18.           The present discharges from the wastewater treatment plant in Siauliai result in a load of
about 500 tons of nitrogen and about 75 tons of phosphorus. If the retention of nitrogen and phosphorus
in the Lielupe River are roughly estimated at 50 % and 25 %, respectively, the discharged quantities from
the municipal sewage water treatment plant in Siauliai will result in an annual discharge to the Gulf of Riga
of 250 tons of nitrogen and 56 tons of phosphorus. These quantities are about 2 and 14%, respectively, of
the current estimated total nitrogen and phosphorus discharges by the Lielupe River to the Gulf of Riga.
This means that the discharge of insufficient treated sewage water from the municipality of Siauliai has a
minor influence on the nitrogen load on the Gulf of Riga, but has an important role concerning the
phosphorus load.
19.           The Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is one of the most polluted sea areas in the world. The
primary environmental problem is eutrophication. The eutrophic situation is caused by increased external
load of nutrients over decades. There is an essential difference between coastal and open sea problems. The
deteriorated coastal environmental conditions are mainly of national origin, while open sea problems are
the result of total pollution load from the entire drainage basin.
20.           Nitrogen and phosphorus are usually the limiting nutrients for the primary production in
aquatic ecosystems. For marine ecosystems, especially the Baltic Sea, there has been an intense discussion
about which of the two nutrients is the limiting compound. However, taking into account seasonal changes



7                                    ANNEX 6
and dynamics in species composition, differences between coastal and open sea areas, etc., both nitrogen
and phosphorus are considered to be limiting, especially in an annual perspective. There is a need for a
significant reduction of nitrogen and phosphorus loads on the Baltic Sea. If a program to reduce the load
by about 800,000 tons of nitrogen and about 35,000 tons of phosphorus would be implemented over a 10-
20 years, the positive effects would be achieved after 40-50 years.
21.           The Sludge Lagoons. The existing wastewater treatment plant is located close to the city,
and some houses are situated just outside the fence of the plant. Earlier sludge was stored close to the plant
but since 1979 the sludge has been pumped to lagoons at the site of the new treatment plant (under
construction). The sludge has a high water content, as the plant has no de-watering equipment and also
the new sludge lagoons are rapidly filling. Today the lagoon area covers an area of about 80 ha and is
anticipated to be filled up in two years time. The sludge lagoons are an odor nuisance and result in insect
problems (e.g. mosquitos) during the summer season. During heavy rains there is a risk of leakage and
overflow, and there is also a long term risk of adverse impacts on the ground water.
The New Wastewater Treatment Plant.
22.           In the 1980's it was concluded that no extension was possible (due to the vicinity of
residential areas and lack of space) at the old treatment plant site and works at the new plant site were
started in 1990. The location of the new wastewater treatment plant is 8 km outside Siauliai and there is
enough space for any future extensions. No land use conflicts or odor problems are expected due to the
remote location. The Kulpe River will continue to receive the treated wastewater.
23.           The present wastewater flow is about 40 - 45,000 m3/day down from 60,000 m3/day in
1990. However, it is estimated that the flow could grow gradually but would not exceed 60,000 m3/day
in the medium term. The load on the Kulpe River has been estimated with a mean wastewater flow of
about 50,000 m3/day. The estimates are presented in Table 6.
Table 6.      The estimated future load of BOD, suspended solids, nitrogen and phosphorus from the
new wastewater treatment plant.
Parameter                 | Discharge to river Kulpe,   Discharge to river Kulpe,
mg/l                    tons/year
BOD                                    11                        200
Suspended solids                       11                        200
Nitrogen, N                            20                        360
Phosphorus, P                          1.1                        20



8                                     ANNEX 6
Potential Environmental Impact of the Proposed Project.
24.            The proposed Project would include the following main elements:
*      construction of an iron removal plant in Birute;
*      rehabilitation of existing facilities of water supply and wastewater collection system in the
city of Siauliai, and
*      completion of priority facilities for wastewater treatment and sludge handling currently
under construction.
25.            The main benefits of the proposed Project are summarized in Table 7.
Table 7.       Main benefits of the proposed Project.
fAction                       Component                     Benefits                     ]
Upgrading of the existing    Decrease of the iron content    Minimization of health risks.
facilities for water supply  and softening of potable water  Decrease of clogging of
(especially Birute wellfield)    distribution systems by iron
and calcium carbonate
l _____________________________  ______________________________   precipitation
Control of industrial         Enforcement of pretreatment of Minimization of heavy metals
wastewater discharges         industrial wastewater         and persistent organic com-
discharged to the Siauliai    pounds in the sewage sludge
sewage collection system,     thus improving of reuse
especially industries discharging possibilities. Contribution to
fat, persistent organic       the trouble free operation of the
compounds and metals          treatment plant.
Upgrading of the performance  Rehabilitation of wastewater    Reducing the risk of discharges
of the sewer system          pumping stations and leaking    of untreated wastewaters to the
sewers                        Kulpe River and groundwater
pollution
Improving the efficiency of    Completion of the construction  - Reduce discharges of
wastewater treatment and     works and procurement of       untreated and partially treated
sludge handling              necessary process equipment    wastewaters to the Kulpe river
for the plant                 - Improve water quality in the
Kulpe River and further
downstream in the Lielupe
River
- Fulfil the recommendations of
HELCOM regarding
discharges of phosphorus and
organic compounds
Upgrade the sludge dewatering  Increase the dry solids content
and handling                  from 2 to 20 % in order to
facilitate the final disposal
Sludge disposal management   Reuse of sludge in landscaping  Use of nutrients in agriculture.
and agriculture (fertilizer)  Reducing the need of landfill
for sludge disposal.



9                                   ANNEX 6
26.           Because of the lack of data necessary for calculating the situation in the receiving waters,
the potential environmental impact of the proposed Project can only be estimated. The proposed Project
would significantly decrease the discharged quantities of BOD, suspended solids, nitrogen and phosphorus
into the Kulpe River. See Table 8.
The water quality especially in the Kulpe and Musa Rivers but also in the Lielupe River would improve.
The positive effects include:
- reduced or eliminated odor problems;
- improved hygienic conditions;
- improved oxygen conditions in the river water and bottom sediment;
- decreased primary production (phytoplankton, periphyton, macrophytes) and improved
possibility for biological life in the river.
Table 8.      Comparison between the present and the estimated future load of BOD, suspended solids,
nitrogen and phosphorus from the wastewater treatment plant in Siauliai.
Parameter                     Discharge to the Kulpe    Discharge to the Kulpe
River,                   River,
Old treatment plant      New treatment plant
Water flow (m3/day)                  40,000           50,000
BOD, tons/year                        1,000           200
Suspended solids, tons/year           1,000           200
Nitrogen, N, tons/year                 500            360
Phosphorus, P, tons/year               75             20
27.           The present discharge from Siauliai correspond to about 250 tons nitrogen and 56 tons
phosphorus at the mouth of the Lielupe River(the Gulf of Riga). The corresponding figures after the
completion of the Project would be 180 tons of nitrogen and 15 tons of phosphorus equaling to annual
reduction of 70 tons of nitrogen and 41 tons of phosphorus in the Gulf of Riga.
28.           The Lithuanian standards (under preparation), recommendations of the HELCOM (1988)
and to the EU directives 91/271 are presented in Table 9. These regulations are valid for plants loaded with
more than 10,000 person equivalents. According to the HELCOM recommendations the wastewaters
should be treated by biological treatment as soon as possible and not later than 1998, when the limit values
should be achieved.



10                                  ANNEX 6
Table 9.      Regulations in Lithuania, Helsinki Commission and European Union for municipal
wastewater regarding plants with more than 10,000 person equivalents.
Parameter              Draft Lithuanian        HELCOM              EU Directive
regulations 1994    Recommendation 9/2,       91/271
February 15, 1988 and
Recommendation 16/9
March 15, 1995
BOD                        15 mg/l               15 mg/l              25 mg/l
90 % reduction     70-90 % reduction
Suspended solids           15 mg/l                                    35 mg/l
90 % reduction
Total phosphorus           1.5 mg/l             1.5 mg/l              1.0 mg/l
80 % reduction
Total nitrogen             12 mg/l               10 mg/l              10 mg/l
70-8-% reduction    70-80 % reduction
to be achieved by
l __________________  ___________________       year   2010
29.           The final wastewater concentrations assumed for the new wastewater treatment plant in
Siauliai would fulfill the standards and guidelines for BOD, suspended solids and total phosphorus of
HELCOM and Draft Lithuanian regulations.
Proposed Mitigating Measures
30.           Mitigation Plan. The overall aim of the proposed Project is to implement measures which
would improve the water supply and wastewater services in Siauliai. The major environmental impact of
the Project would result from the improvement in surface and groundwater quality in the Project area
resulting in improved ecological conditions.
31.           Few of the impacts of the completed Project would be adverse and none are likely to be
significant and require mitigation. The impact of construction would be largely limited to relatively minor
disruption and disturbance.  Nevertheless, it should still be possible to reduce the extent of this
inconvenience by implementing some relatively straightforward measures to minimize these impacts
through clear requirements in the construction contracts combined with good construction supervision.
32.           Proposed Enviromnental Monitoring. A monitoring program should be designed,
including the frequencies and analyzed parameters to meet domestic and international standards,
recommendations and agreements. The program should be designed for:
*     Potable water quality monitoring (additional sampling and analytical work);



11                                    ANNEX 6
*     Municipal wastewater monitoring (influent, effluent and sludge), according to the
recommendations and agreements within HELCOM.   There should be
independent supervision of the performance of the wastewater treatment plant
carried out by the MoEP;
*     Industrial wastewater quality and quantity monitoring, including both industries
connected to the wastewater treatment plant and non-connected industries; and
*     Water quality monitoring in regard to physical-chemical and biological
parameters for the receiving waters of the Kulpe and Musa rivers.
33.           Proposed Sludge Handling. The long-term  target for sludge treatment and handling
should be recycling of the sludge for agricultural use. Sludge from municipal wastewater treatment plants,
used in agriculture, is an excellent addition of nutrients (P and N) and organic matter to the soil. In order
to enable reuse for agricultural purposes, the sludge should be stabilized and should not contain harmful
substances (e.g. heavy metals and persistent organic substances).
34.           Institutional Strengthening and Human Resources Development.  The proposed
Project includes use of a "twinning agreement" to support institutional strengthening and human resources
development activities for Siauliai Water Enterprise. These activities would include training for Siauliai
Water Enterprise personnel in the collection, analysis and application of water and wastewater quality
monitoring to the operation of the utility. Support would also be provided for training of personnel from
the Siauliai and Panevezys Regional Environmental Protection Offices and Siauliai Water Enterprise in the
use of water quality data for the evaluation of trends in environmental quality and assessment of the impact
of the wastewater discharges on the river environment.






Annex 7
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Environmental Data Sheet






ANNEX 7
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country:                               LITHUANIA                      Project ID No:                          39746
Project Name:                          Siauliai Environment           Total Project Cost:                     US$22.85 m
Appraisal Date:                        June, 1995                     Task Manager:                           Sari Soderstrom
Board Date:                            December, 1996                 Sector:                                 Environment
Managing Division:                     EC4NR                          Status:                                 Negotiations
Lending Instruments:                   SIL
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank:  N/A                            Date Assigned:                          March, 1995
EA Category (AIBIC):                   B
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated             September 12, 1995
(Please do not leave any items blank: use 'N/A' or 'To be developed' when appropriate)
Major Project Components: (presents description of project components)
The proposed Project includes an Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC) and an Environmental Management Component (EMC) which
are intended to support implementation of the Baltic Sea Environment Program which identified Siauliai as a "priority hot spot.' The WWIC would
support Siauliai Water, the local utility, to undertake: (a) rehabilitation and upgrading of water treatment and distribution facilities; (b) rehabilitation of
elements of the old wastewater treatment plant and completion of major elements of the partially constructed new wastewater treatment plant; (c) actions
to improve sludge management and reduce the discharge of industrial wastewaters into the sewerage system; and (d) institutional support and training to
assist in establishing an autonomous and financially independent water and wastewater utility in Siauliai. The latter would include assistance for tariff
restructuring/tariff planning and financial operations and a twinning arrangement with a reputable foreign water and wastewater utility. The EMC would
include support for: (a) the 'International Lielupe River Commission;" (b) a regional and local environmental monitoring and laboratory systems; and (c)
technical and ftnancial support for selected activities designed to control pollution from pig farms.
Major Environmental Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
The WWIC of the proposed Project would result in: (a) improved water conservation and drinking water quality in Siauliai; (b) reduced infiltration of
water into the sewerage system and wastewater into the groundwater; (c) reduced discharge of partially treated and untreated municipal and industrial
wastewaters into the Upper Lielupe River; and (d) reduced industrial discharges and improved sludge management practices. All activities concerning the
new wastewater treatment plant would be conducted at an existing site which is removed from residential and cornmercial areas. The EMC of the
proposed Project would result in a strengthened river basin management organization and support improved control of point and non-point source pollution
would reduce discharges into Lielupe river and provide for the demonstration of low-cost control methods. Both components include activities to monitor
environmental performance by Lithuanian authorities.
Other Envronmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
N/A
Proposed Actions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
An environmental review has been prepared for the proposed project by a joint Lithuanian and Swedish team consistent with the environmental review
procedures of Lithuania and those of the Bank. Preparation of the study was coordinated with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Regional
Environmental Protection Office and Siauliai Municipal Environment Department. Actions would be taken to mitigate disturbances during construction and
monitoring would be conducted for improvements in the wastewater treatment system.
Justzflcaton/Rationale for Enuronmental Category: (reasons for environmental category selected & explanation of any changes from initial classification)
The project has been placed in environmental screening category "B" as the potential impacts are restricted in scope and are largely beneficial. The
proposed improvements and upgrading of the water and wastewater facilities have been approved by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Activities
for improved management of the Lielupe River basin are anticipated to a have positive impact on the environment and would be implemented under the
direct supervision of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Proposed actions under the Project would not require involuntary resetlement or have
adverse impacts to known archaeological or historic sites.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA stan-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
-N/A
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA, etc)
Preparation of the proposed Project has been coordinated with the ongoing work of the "Lielupe River Project' which is being conducted by a Latvian,
Lithuania and Swedish team. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Regional Environmental Protection Offices and the Siauliai Municipal
Environment Office have directly participated in project design. Preparation of the Project has included a number of meetings with representatives of
national and local authorities and experts concerning the findings and recommendations of the consultants. Given the transboundary nature of the Lielupe
River, consultations have been conducted with the Latvian Ministry of Environment and Regional Development which strongly supports the proposed
Project as it would reduce pollution of Latvian surface and coastal waters.
lSigned                                                                Signedl
lby:                                                                   by:l
Geoffrey Fox, Chief, EC4NR                                            Aniarnd K. Seth (EMTEN)                    Noebrl,19






Annex 8
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan






ANNEX 8
SUPERVISION PLAN
Env.                  Total
Approx           Activity          Staff Weeks     TM       Fin.Spec.  Proc. Spec.   Engin.   Env. Spec.  Staff weeks
Date
F
Y    May-96   Supervision I          Headquarters                                                                3
9             (Project Startup)      Regional Office                                      I          1           2
6                                    Donors          ______ J _                           2                      3
Sep-96   Supervision 2         Headquarters 1e     I                                                       3
Regional Office                              _       1          1          2
Donors                        1                                             3
F
Y    Dec-96   Ist Annual Review      Headquarters                   1          1                     1           4
9                                    Regional Office                                      I          1           2
7                                    Donors                        1                      2                      3
Apr-97   Supervision 3          Headquarters       1     I     1]             I    |      ||                3     |
Regional Office                                      I        I             2
Donors                        1      I__ 1    2                             3
________________________   ____. ___                                                _      _. _-__
Sep-97   Supervision 4         Headquarters        1          1          I      I    |_|       _    |     3
Regional Office                                      I I _   1  1          2
Donors                        1                J    2   1               _3
F
Y    Dec-97   Supervision S          Headquarters      1            1    I    1        _         |     _         3
9                                    Regional Office |        |_     |_             |          ]     1           2
8                                    Donors          _             1 I        _     |    2       __3
Apr-98   2nd Annual Review/    Headquarters        1          1                                             4 I_I__I |
Mid-terrn Review      Regional Office __ j_____I _                                    I [         2
Donors          _         [1I    j2                                         3 2
Dec-98   Supervision 6          Headquarters       1                     1                                  3
Regionor  Office |_I                                 I      I  I          2
Donors                        I                |    2                       3
F
Y    Apr-99   3rd Annual Review      Headquarters         1        I            I   ____            1           4
9                                    Regional Office |         I         T 1              I 1        1           2
-9                                   Donors          ___I  1                              2                      3 J  3
F    Dec-99   4th Annual Review      Headquarters       1I                                           I           4
Y                                    RegionalOffice                 1          1          I                      2
0                                    Donors        {1                      ____           2      _           __3
0
Implementation
Completion Report
Mar-00   Preparation            Headquarters       2      _          _          _  _  _                     2
Regional Office                                     1                       I






Annex 9
SLAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Siauliai Water - Financial Analysis






Annex 9
1
UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS OF THE FINANCIAL MODEL FOR SW
STATISTICAL DATA
1.    An increase in population of 0.6% for each year from 1995 to 2010, and a corresponding
increase in the number of people served by the Siauliai Water (SW) utility is assumed. The
proportion of the population is therefore maintained at 87% through out the project.
2.    The proportion of non-revenue to total water produced is assumed to remain flat at 20%.
This amount of 20% non-revenue water is low for a system such as SW, and indicates that
measurement of water production is probably not accurate.
INFLATION ASSUMPTIONS
3.    Average nominal water and waste water prices for the years 1992-1994 have been inflated
to mid- 1995 litas by the inflation factors as shown below.
122                     1993               1994
mid 1992 to mid 1995     mid 93 to mid 95    mid 94 to mid 95
33.78                   4.510              1.53
4.    The above inflation factors have been calculated using annual inflation from the middle of
the year to the middle of the next year. The annual inflation rates are in 1992 - 1021%, 1993 - 401%,
1994 - 72% and 1995 - 37%.
5.    For the Balance Sheet the 1992-1994 figures have been inflated from end of year to mid-1995
as shown below:
1992                    1993               1994
end 1992 to mid 1995     end 93 to mid 95    end 94 to mid 95
10.080            2.010              1.170
UNIT OF PROJECTION
6.    All projections are in constant US dollars for the Income Statement, Balance Sheet and the
Funds Flow Statement, using an exchange rate of Litas 4 = 1US$ on mid-1995 Lita figures.



Annex 9
2
LNCOME STATEMENT
7.    The tariffs for water and waste water are taken as given up to 1995 and have been converted
to mid-1995 Litas and then into constant US dollars. The Base Case Scenario projects real increases
in tariffs of 15% in 1996. 15% in 1997 and 12% in 1998.
8.    Revenues from other services include water limit fees and a BOD fee for waste water.
Sale of goods and services for both water and waste water are expected to reduce over time, as these
services will be contracted out more and more.
9.   Interest rate earned on delayed payments is assumed to be a nominal rate of 19% starting in
1995, and deflated to real levels to project interest earnings and interest charges in real terms.
Delayed payments are projected to be 2% of total water and waste water billed. Interest income from
the compulsory reserve fund (which is 5% of after tax profits each year) is calculated at 19%
nominal per year deflated to real rates and is shown as a separate revenue item.
10.   For the Base Case scenario, the staff costs have been projected to remain constant in real
terms for the period 1995-2010. The expected reduction in employees will not reduce the wage bill
in absolute terms due to the costs of redundancy payments and compensation of the remaining
employees who would be the better skilled and better qualified employees. Social costs are projected
at 31% of wages and salaries.
11.  In the Base Case Scenario, Energy and Material costs for water and waste water services, is
expected to increase by 4-5% in real terms in 1996, and then by about 20% in 199, and thereafter by
less than 1% each year up to 2010, with the exception of a 4% decline in 2003. This is due to
phasing out of one of the units of the water treatment facility. The large real increase in energy and
material costs in 1997, is primarily due to the commissioning of the new waste water treatment plant.
In the Base Case, it has been assumed that SW will introduce cost cutting measures so as to contain
the increase in energy and material costs to 15%. as opposed to the 21% projected for 1997.
12.   Depreciation has been calculated using a 30 year straight line for existing assets. For new
assets being created or existing asses being rehabilitated in the SW project, it is assumed that the
assets will be depreciated using straight line depreciation over 25 years for the water supply
facilities, 50 years life for the collection network and pipeline, and 10 years for the rehabilitated
existing waste water treatment plant. For fixed assets created from the investments financed by SW
after the project. straight line depreciation for 25 years has been assumed.
13.   Assumptions on the various environmental and other taxes are as follows:
*     VAT which was charged for 1993 and 1994, is projected to be 0 in future years since SW has
been granted an exemption on paying VAT.



Annex 9
3
*     Traffic tax is taken to be 0.5% of total water and waste water billed.
*     Land Tax, Natural Resources Tax, and Pollution Tax are projected to increase in real terrms
by 2% each year starting in 1996.
14.   Interest expenses on the World Bank loan have been calculated at the World Bank's current
level (7.2%) lending rate which is variable. The projections on interest expenses are made keeping
this current lending rate constant, through out the twenty year repayment period. The interest
expenses on the World Bank loan have not been deflated for these projections, assuming potential
devaluation, which cannot be easily projected. Thus by using the 7.2% interest rate through out the
project, interest expenses are in effect being kept constant.
15.   Other Financial Costs comprise of interest charged of 19% (nominal rate which has been
deflated using local inflation projections) per annum, on delayed payments to suppliers which is
assumed to be 0.1% of energy and material bills.
16.   Profit taxes are taken to be zero after 1994, since SW as a municipal entity, it will be exempt
from profit tax.
17.   SW used to pay taxes on State Capital at the rate of 7% per year. Out of these taxes, one-third
was paid to the Government and two-thirds went to an external account from which SW could draw
down for investments. Since the ownership of SW shifted from the Central Authorities to the
Municipality, the tax on State Capital is to be eliminated and instead there will be a property tax
equivalent to 0.5% on assets to be paid to the Municipality.
18.   Provisions for bad debts are expensed in the Income Statement. The provision for bad debts
is taken to be 5% of annual domestic water and waste water bills and 3% of annual public and
industry bills. It is assumed that the provisioned amount is accurate and there is a corresponding
write down of Accounts Receivable in the Balance Sheet.
19.   SW is required to set aside 5% of net after tax profits as contribution to a Reserve Fund.
Contribution to the Reserve Fund is shown as a separate row item in the income statement. In the
Balance Sheet, the compulsory reserve fund is included as part of Retained Earnings.
20.   The Income Statement automatically calculates for each year the projected Working Ratio
and Operating Ratio for each year. The Working Ratio is defined as operating costs (material and
energy costs, staff costs and environmental charges) divided by operating revenues (water and waste
water revenues, water limit fees and BOD fees, goods and services provided and interest earned on
delayed payments and on the compulsory reserve fund). The Operating Ratio is the same as above
with addition of depreciation and interest expenses to the numerator, while the denominator remains
the same.



Annex 9
4
BALANCE SHEET
1.    For the years 1992-1994 all Balance Sheet items expressed in Nominal Litas have been
inflated by the end of year to mid- 1995 inflation factors to constant mid- 1995 Litas. These have then
been converted to constant US dollars using the current exchange rate of Litas 4 = US$ 1.
2.    The Balance Sheet figures for 1994 are according to the figures presented in the Balance
Sheet of SW for this year.
3.    The projections for Current Assets from 1995 to 2010 are based on the assumptions described
below.
(a)   Cash and Bank Balance for 1995 to 2010 have been projected. using a minimum cash
balance requirement equivalent to six months of operating costs. The final cash and
bank balance for each of the projection years. is derived from the closing cash
balance calculated from the Source and Uses of Funds statement.
(b)   Accounts receivable are maintained at current levels, of 45 days of sales.
(c)   The provision for bad debts which have been expensed in the income statement are
presumed to be accurate and the Accounts Receivable are written down to the same
extent each year. The assumptions for provisioning for bad debts are: 5% of annual
domestic customer bills; and 3% of public and industrial customer bills.
(d)   Inventory is assumed to be 60 days of energy and material bills which is in keeping
with current levels.
(e)   Advance Payments made for energy and materials are assumed to be 10% of annual
energy and material costs.
4.    The Gross Fixed Assets of SW for 1994 is taken as given in the SW Balance Sheet and
converted into constant US Dollars. The project is expected to begin in 1996, and all new project
investments are added to the existing asset base as increments. Accumulated Depreciation has been
calculated as the total of depreciation on existing assets and on the incremental assets, as described
in the assumptions on the income statement. Investments in the Project Implementation Unit, is
shown on the Asset side as "Intangible Asset". It is also assumed that SW would continue
investments from 1998 onwards. financed through its own sources.



Annex 9
5
5.    On the Liabilities Side, Current Liabilities include the following:
(a)   Short term borrowing in 1994, is equivalent to US$149,000. No further short term
borrowing is projected for future years, since SW has adequate funds to finance its
working capital and short term needs.
(b)   Advance Payments received is about 0.4% of water and waste water bills. This
projection is based on 1994 level of advance payments to bills.
(g)   Accounts Payable for each year is projected at 45 days of energy and material bills.
(h)   Other overdue payments include - taxes and charges which have been maintained at
the same level as in previous years; wages and social charges which is 1 1% of the
total wage bill for each year.
6.    Long Term Liabilities comprise of the World Bank Loan of US$6 million, disbursed across
the calendar years 1996 to 1998, according to the financing plan shown in the SAR.
7.    The Owner's Equity for the past years comprised of State Capital which is the State's
contribution to the financing needs of SW. For the current project the Government will contribute
an equivalent of US$7.60 million in the form of a grant. This grant as well as the grants from
foreign governments for this project have been shown as a part of owner's equity.
8.    The Retained Earnings shown in the Balance Sheet for the year 1994 is as given in the
Balance Sheet of SW. However, there is some discrepancy between the retained earning as shown
in the income statement and those shown in the Balance Sheet. For the purpose of this analysis, the
Balance Sheet retained earnings of the previous years are assumed to be the correct numbers and the
build up of retained earnings starts with the retained earnings as stated in 1994. The footnote in the
Balance Sheet against retained earnings explains the compulsory reserve fund (described earlier 5%
of net profit after tax) is included in the Balance Sheet as part of Retained Earnings.
9.    The Current Ratio: is defined as current assets over current liabilities and indicates the
liquidity position of SW.
10.   The Return on Equity is defined as Net Profits after taxes and before dividends and
compulsory reserve fund contribution. divided by Owner's Equity.
11.   The Return on Investment is defined as Gross Profits before Interest and TaxeslNet Working
Capital + Net Fixed Assets.



Annex 9
6
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS STATEMENT
I .    The Sources and Uses of Funds Statement projects the funds flow from 1995 to 2010, starting
with 1994 as the base year. The funds flow from operations are taken from the net profit after taxes
as projected in the income statement, with depreciation and interest costs added back.
2.    The funds from external financing are projected from the incremental growth in equity
financing and debt financing as shown in the Balance Sheet. These include the World Bank Loan,
the Grants from Norway, Sweden and Finland and the Grant from the State.
3.    The uses of funds show the incremental investments undertaken by SW and calculated from
the asset growth as shown in the Balance Sheet. As described in the Balance Sheet Assumptions.
the Funds Flow projections are set up in such a wy so that an luses between sources and uses
after satisfvin2 a minimum cash balance of six monthsf operating costs. will be used for future
investments. startin2 in 1998. These investments, further increase SW's asset base. and the assets
are depreciated using 25 years straight line depreciation.
4.    The Debt Service requirements includes projections on both interest payments and principal
repayment for future years. Since the World Bank loan to the Government of Lithuania is on-lent
to SW, the terms of the loan that have been adopted in the Base Case Scenario are those offered to
SW. The rate of interest is the same as the World Bank rate but the grace period and repayment
period has been reduced from 5 to 4 and 20 to 10 years respectively. As described in the
assumptions underlying the income statement projections, the interest payments on the World Bank
loan has been projected using the current interest rate (7.2% per annum paid twice a year) through
out the repayment period of 10 years. These projections are as if in constant dollars, from a
conservative perspective, given that future devaluations may end up increasing the debt burden on
SW in Lita terms. The principal repayment have also been projected in nominal terms for the same
reason.
5.    Non-cash working capital is defined as Current Assets (except cash) minus Current
Liabilities. The change in non-cash working capital is calculated from year to year from the Balance
Sheet, the assumptions for which are included in the previous section. Increases in non-cash
working capital is added to the uses of funds, whereas decreases in non-cash working capital are
deducted from the uses of funds.
6.    The opening cash balance for 1995 is taken as a given from the 1994 closing balance. The
future projections for closing cash balance of 1995 and cash balances for all future years are shown
in the last line of the Source and Uses of Funds Statement.
7.    The debt service coverage ratio for each year is calculated as net profit after taxes +
depreciation + interest costs divided by the debt service including interest costs and repayment.



ASSumpnomON04 FliflRE TARIFF INCREASES               -          -       -         -       --                                                                                                                  -        -       -
Red l mw in WMU Prices                                                  -          0%       0%      151      15%      12%      0%       0%       0%       0%       0%       0%       0%*     0%       0%        0%      0%        0%
RaI bc,m  .WatWawPrkcu                                                             0%       0%      Is%      I5%      12%      0%       0%       0%       0%       0%      0%       0%       0%       0%       0%       0%       0%
SIAULUAI WATER AND WASTM WATE  SYSTEM                           -1992    (99      1994    1995    1996       1997    1991    1999    200D    2oDi    200         2003    2O4            2    00 26    2007    2006    2009      2010
RICOIIE SIATEIZWT - BASE CASE 
TOrAL WATER & WASTE WATER REVENUB
TOM WiNe  1d Waf wan Dow                         (US5$ 000)    21173.   7405    4775    4061    4719    $41          6199      257    6317    6377    6472    6566    6660    6754    6853    6947    7046    7142              7236
Wow LJmk FuLIBO  he                  (US$000)       044       02    IV_          141     165      I"      203      21       211      211      221      22       221      231     231       241      241     21        211
Ndu  t Gods hua Ses&Canbka                       (Ier MO300)   a.5            1     41 17   97A    457       432      71D    898       752      816      903     .2  1.09IO         IOD5    IOD5  1.100    1.04        986       922
__se ________en_deby          _______            MU_ ODD)                 3%        66     73      61       56       33       49       42   42   41   40   49                      49       49        4%      48       47       47%(
TOTIAL  EVNUESTI                                                 65%S$OD    2.1  76%9    8013  91%8   583%   .836   6810   678%    6,64        8.00   6796   6779    76%9           76%8    7617     7273     7837     7946      805%
TOALOERT_            CSTW___ w__o__00_139___16                                   .19     3.7 2__11 3_01    3'3.01 ,0I 3.1                               ,2       ,9       ,33     337 332          335        ,7       .3       .0
(I)W     A io-(     Cam      s+              (Uone S$ICODO)  773    3.2       .38112ha.4                153      i.7      ,s2     ise1,5 ,v                   ,       1n9      1.6      .1       .9       117      192       ,3
(2)     R at  -g                             (USi$ CoasEjri4ona1.I     14 +IteutCn*   1oI Reenus  118   IIs      Ils Ils          118      Il        'l       .1       'l       .1      .1       ,1        .1       .1       .



SUVLUAI WATER AND WASTE WATER SYSTEM
BALANCE SHEEr, Constant Mid 1995 US$ 000
US$1- 4Ultas
1993M   1994    1995    1996           1997    19981   1999    2000    2001    2002    20031  2004    2005    2006              2007     2008    2009    2010
ASSETSIII
CashundOBark                                  141     151       56     935    2156    3770    37311   4022    2982    3133    3287    34711  3619    3771    4857                4935     5013    5092    5169
Accounts Receivable                          733      471     450      508      590      685      7751    782       790      797      809      821     832      844      857      g68      881      893      905
Write Off of Bad Debts                       0        0       0       178     206      239      2701   _273  __275         277      281      285     289      293      297      301      305      309      313
Inventory                                   1018      244     291      214      224      259      296      275      307      309      311      306     308      311      313      315      318      320,    323
AdvawcePaymsents Made                        680       29     135      128      135       155     177      165      184      185      187      183      185     186      1881    189   -191         192      194
ContracssnoCornpleted                          0       19       0         0l      0        0        0      0          0        0        0        0        0       0        0l       0        0        0        0
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                        2572      914     931      1607    2899    4630    4708    4972    3988    4147    4312    4496    4655    4819    5917              6006    6098    6189    6277
Gross Fixed Assets - Post Project (I)                    I           __   ___              0    2151    4324    6693    80171   9485    111231  12938   14893   1699            20172    23421   26741   30133
Gross Fixed Assets - Existing + Project   18,419   6.471  23.920   23,920  32,343   41.086  43,027  43.027   43,027  43,027   43.027   43,027 143.027  43,027  43.027   43,027   43.027 143,027   43,027
Accumulated Depreciation                     481     669    1359    2050    2983    4228    56161   7091    8660   10283    11964    137101 15530   17427   19408_  21517   237561  26127   286341
NET FIXED ASSETS                          17,937   5,802  22.560   21.869  29.360   36.857  39.562  40,260   41,059  40.761   40,548   40,439 140,435 140,492  40,611   41.681   42,692 143.641  44,525
Other Assets (2)                                                           1 _234        344      395      441      4-41     441      441      441     441      4411   441        441      441      441      441
T'OTAL ASSETS                             20,510   6,716  23,492   23.476   32,493   41,832  44,665  45,673   45.488  45,349   45.302   45.376  45,531  45.752  46.968   48.129   492.231  50,270   51.244
CURRENT LIABIILITIES                       3,596361           624      507     517       546     577      56       586      587      589      586      588   590        592      594       597      5991   601
Shoe-TernnBank Loan                          645    0          146        0       0l       0        0l       0        0        0        0        0      0          0  __0    -0               0       0 _        0
Advance Payments Received                     20       13       16       16      191      22       25       25       25       261      26       26      27       27       271      28        29      29       29
Accounts Payable                            2568      108     151       160     1681    194       222      207      230      232      233      229     2.31     233      235      236      238      240      242
Taxes ankd Chsarges                          176      126      169      169      169      169     169      169      169      169      169      1691    169       169     169       169      169     169       169
Wages and Social Paymnents                   186      114     142       161     161       161     161      161      161      161      161      161      161     161      161      161       161      161     161
LONG TERM LIABILITIESI
World Bank Loan                          _    0         0 __  0           0   2,903  5,662   5,923   6,000   5.000    4,000    3,000    2,000   1,000           -        -        -        -            -
AdditionalfBorrowing Required (3)                          __       _ _           0        0        0l       0        0        0        0        0      0          0       0        0        0l       0 __0              00
TOTAL LIABILITIE                           3,596     361     624       507    3,420    6,208   6.50D   6,562    5,586   4.587    3,589    2.586   1.588         590     592       594      597     599       601
EQUITY                                     16095    6146   22790   22790   28412   34508   36302   36302   36302   36302   36302   36302   36302   36302   36302    36302    36302   36302   36302
Owner's Equity - State Capital (4)         16095    6146   22790   22790   22790   22790   22790   22790   22790   22790   22790   22790   22790   22790   22790    22790   22790   22790   22790
State Grant Funds                              0 ___   __  0              0    3064    6380    7604    7604    7604    7604    7604    7604    7604    7604    7604              7604     7604    7604    7604
Foreign Grant Funids                           0 ___0 ___0               0    2558      5338    5908    5908    5908    5908    5908    5908    5908    5908    59081   5908              5908    5908    5908
Retained Profit (5)                          819      210      77       179     660     IllS     18631  2808    36001   4459    5410    64881  7641    886   I10074    11232    12331   13369   14340
*tncl.compulsory reserve fund            271      62       43       48       72       95      132      180     219      262      310      3641   421        482     543       601      656      708      756
TOTAL EQUITY                               16914    6356   22867   22969   290V731  35623   38165   39111   39903   40762   41712   42790   43943   45162   46376    47534   48634   49671   50642
TOTAL LIABILMiES AND EQUITY               20.510   6,716  23,492   23,-4763243 4,3   44,665  45,672   45,488  45.349   45,301   45,376  45,531  45.752  46.9684.29                       9,3 3070 524
C'URRENT RATIO (6)                           0.721   2.531    .49      3.17    5.0       8.48    8.17    8.85      6.81    7.06      7.32     7.68    7.9       8.7      .9       01      1.2      1.3      1.4
RET-URN ON EQUITY(7                         34%      20%       4%       0%       2        I 1     2%       3%       2%       2%       3         %       3        %       3         %        3        %        3
RETURN ON INVESTMENT(S)                 I 48%I  29%1    5%              2%                3%      4%       4%       4%       4-       4         %       4        %       4         %        3        %        3
General Commnent: Alt figures for the years prior
to 1995 taken an given in SW Balance ShItd.              (3) AdditionLal borrowing, if required, for bridging  (6) Current Ratio = Current Assets/Current Liabilities
the gap between sources and urea of funds.       (7) Return on Equity = Net Profit after taxes
(I) The additional investments financed from interntal   (4) State Capital - contribution from the State           before dividends and contributions to reserve funds/
Resourees generted by SW in the years after              to SW is aecounted forma part of Ownier's              Ownier's Equity
the Project.                                          (5) Retained Prorit is cummulated from 1994 wan       (8) Return on Investmnent = Net Profit before Taxes and Interest/ 
(2) COther Assets refer to the intangible assets             includes 5 % of after tax profits an a reserve        Net Fixed Assets + Net Working Capital                                                                    \
created in the Project - for example, the                fund.
I Project Implementation Unit.



Basw Case: 15%. 15%, 12%                                 SIAULIAI WATER AND WASTE WATER SYSTEM
+ 10 year repyment of debt                              SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDs
In Constant MIfd-95 US$ 000
UIS$ =    4  U tas      _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                             1994     1995     1996      1997     1998     1999    2000    2001       2002     2003    2004      2005     2006    2007      2008     2009      2010
INTERNAL CASH FLOWII
Net Income after Taxes                                        860      102      481      455       748      945      792      859      951     1078     1153    1.219    1214       1158     1099     1038      971
Interest and Other Financial Costs                           59      0.18     209       408      427      430      358      286      214      242       70        0         0        0        0 ___00
Depreciation                               _____            691      691      933      1245     1388     1475     1569     1622     1681     1747     1829      1897     1981    2109    2239    -2371       2507
Total ftunds from Operatins                  ___1610                   793      1623     2108    2563      285      2720    2767    2846    2967        3042     3117    3196    3267        3338    3409      3478
GRANTS AND LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
State Grants                                                1664.4       0    30641   3316        12241_      0        0        0        o   0      0    0          0         o   0        0 _   0     0          0
Foreign Granits                                                 0        0    2558  2780           570        0        0        0        0l       0 _       0       0         0        0 _       0       0l       0
World Bank Loan                                                 0        0    2903      2759       261    77           0        0        0              _0          0        0         0        0      0          0
Total hisndfrom ftnancinig                   _     __       16644 _        0   852588355    2055             77        0        0        0        0 __0             0         0        0        0_   0 0          0
Additional Borrowings Required (1)                        _ __           0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0       -0        0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                       _____          182541    7931  10148    10963    4618    2927    2720           2767     2846    2967    3042       3117     3196      3267     3338    3409      3478
ProjectlInvestmsent Years 1996 -1999                      17449        0     8657     8853     1992       46         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        00
Future Investment Years 1998-2010 (2)   -         -           0        0        0        0    2151      2172    2369       1324     1468     1638     1815     1955    2200    3179    3249        3320     3392
DEBT SERVICE
fnteresi                                      ~~~~~59   0       209      408   4261    430           358      286      214      142    70  __0   _   0                 0l       0        0        0
Other FinLarcial Costs                                        0.00     0.18     0.19     0.23     0.251   0.23      0.26     0.26     0.26     0.25     0.26      0.26     0.26     0.26     0.26     0.27     0.27
Repaynients -short term borrowing                               0      146        0         0  __0  __0                0        0        0        0  __0 __0  _              0         0  __0            0        0o
Repayments -long term borrowing                                 0        0        0         0 ___0 ___0             1000     1000     1000     1000     1000     2000DO   _  0         0 ___0            0 ___0
Repayments -additional borrowing,if any    _____                                  0         0        0        0 ___0            0        0        0 ___0 ___0 __             0         0 ___0            00
____             ___           ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~0 0 __ 0  ___o              0  _        0     o_   0   o         0  _        0     0        0
Total Debt Service                           ___591    146                      2091    408        427      430     1358     1286j   1214      1142     2070      I0ODO __  0          0 ___0            00
Inc.(Decr.) in Non-Cash Working Capital (3)  _                  -4    -235       60       88        87      -13       32        6        9        3        9        9        10        9       to       10       t0
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                   ___            17504       -89    8927     9349    4657       2636    3759    2617    2692    2783         2894    2965      2110     3189      3260     3330     3402
Surplus (Deficit) Funds                       __              750      882      1221     1614      -40      291    -1039      150      1.54     184      148       152     1086       78       78       79       77
Opening Cash Balance                                                    53      935     2156      3770     3731    4022      2982     3133     3287    3471    3619    3771    4857    4935    5013    509
Closing Cash Balance                                           53      935     216       3770     3731     40221   29821   3133       32871   3471      3619    37712    4857       4935     5013    5092      5169
Debt Servic-e Cover Ratio (DSCR) (4)                     1 _27.321   5.42       7.761   5.17      6.01     6.63 F-2.001    2.151   2.341   2.601   2.841   3.121  122701  124651  12621    12788    12950
(I) If fthre is any need for additional rinancing, it    (3) Annual Changes in Working Capital is definied
would be in the formn of additional borrowings and       as change in Curfent Assets (except cash) minus
reflected in this linec itemn                            Current Liabilities (except abiort termn debt) from
year to year.
(2) If there are large surpluses in funds generated
then after mnaintaining a cash balance of 6 months       (4) Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR)                                                                                                                           0
loperating expenses, the cash is diverted to real         Internal Resources (Net Profit after taxes +



SIUALIAI WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEM - Sensitivity of Financial Parameters to Risk Factors and Risk Mitigation
Scenario Description                       Finandal Criteria            1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005   2006             2007    2008      2009
Increase Real Prices by 15%, 15%, 12%      Base Case                     61%   56%   53%   49%   52%   52%   51%   50%   49%   49%             49%      48%      48%       47%
No Real Increase in Prices - 0%, 0%, 0%    _  Scenario 1                69%   73%   77%   72%   75%   75%   74%   72%   72%   71%              70%      70%      69%       69%
Increase Costs by 5% real each year       Scenario 2                    63%   59%   56%   52%   54%   54%   53%   52%   52%   51%              51%      50%      50%       50%
_Odraan RaIri_o_
Increase Real Prices by 15 %, 15 %, 12%   Base Case                     83%   85%   81%   78%   81%   80%   79%   77%   76%   76%              76%      77%      78%       79%
No Real Increase in Prices - 0%. 0%, 0%    _Scenario 1                  95%  110%  116%  110%  112%  110%  107%  104%  101%   99%              98%      97%      96%       96%
_~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                                                                                  *1-'
Increase Costs by 5% real each year    =Scenario 2                      86%   87%   84%   80%   83%   82%   81%   79%   78%   77%              78%      78%      79%       80%    0
Debt Scrvicc Coverage Ratio
Increase Real Prices by 15%, 15%, 12%      Base Case                     7.76   5.17   6.00   6.63   2.00   2.15   2.34   2.60   2.84   3.12 12270.00 12465.00 12621.00 12788.00
No Real Increase in Prices - 0%, 0%, 0%    Scenario I                    4.96   2.04   1.51  2.14   0.57   0.63   0.71  0.84   0.94   1.00    74.56  4480.27  4630.14  4773.87i
Increase Costs by 5 % real each year       Scnario 2                     7.09   4.80, 5.62, 6.27   1.88, 2.02   2.21  2.46   2.69   2.95, 11646.00 11845.00 12005.00  12177.00
Working Ratio = Operating Costs/Operating Revenues                                                  =                          =
Operating Ratio = Operating Costs + Depreciation + Interest/Operatiing Revenues            .        _
Debt Service Coverage Ratio = Net Profit after Taxes + Depreciation + Interest / Interest + Principal Repayment
'C



Annex 10
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Siauliai Water - Review of Affordability






Annex 10. Review of Affordability
Affordability Projection at Fixed (1995) Prices
Number of persons per household:                            3.2
Number of wage earners per household:                        1.7
Average income/capita:                                      450
Average household income:                                   765
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
Real Wage Growth:                                                 I-Sep-95     2%        2%         2%         2%         2%         2%
Average household income                     LT/month              765        780        796        812        828        845        862
Water Consumption                            Liter/day              164        165       167        168        169        170        170
- per household                              m3/month             15.96      16.06      16.25      16.35      16.45      16.55     16.55
Water Tariffs                                LT/m3                 0.78
Sewerage Tariffs                             LT/m3                 0.69
Total Tariffs                                LT/m3                 1.47
Sub Total Monthly Charges                    LT/month              23.47      26.98     31.03      34.76      34.76      34.76      34.76
Value Added Tax                               18%                             4.86       5.59       6.26       6.26       6.26      6.26
Total Monthly Charges                                              23.47      31.84     36.62      41.01      41.01      41.01      41.01
Annual Real Tariff Increase                                                   15%        15%        12%        0%         0%         0%
Monthly Charges as % of income                                    3.07%      4.08%      4.60%      5.05%      4.95%      4.86%     4.76%






IBRD 27027
X   prOVeOvIIs  fwE                                           >+srol=9rle         t  /               / rOl          9  rO                                                . .~~~.  T.  T
TALS) (E)                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LITHUANIA
or                                                )                                                     \ S'IAULIAI ENVIRONMENT
PROJECT
T.   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* PROJECr SITE
PROJECT AREA
/JURMALA                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIELUPE RIVER
WATERSHED) BOUNDARY
PREVIOUS PROJECT LOCATIONS (,-,I
c                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED MAAJOR ROADS
T.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooo                                                              0   SELECTED TOWNS
@ PROVNCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
-PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-  -NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
1_S   .,-                   --~~~~~AKIJJI ,--Z        A-   '1--   )i VaeN ROKISKIS-5
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AV
DO&E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                         tSA
AIZKPAUKLE ~   ~~~~~~~~~~ TELRU
To                                                                                       ToUW.g.Auce  LToA* ,hATPOLAN
Kodo,,o,  K  BAWo, KAd,i,~MIo                                           0-
P'I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~PE'E









-L-)-  'lbU        I
J-Y A'        l >VA-i



