Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23261
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39630; PPFB-P2840)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.20 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
LITHUANIA
FOR A
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
18/12/2001
Environmentally And Socially Sustainable Developement Unit (ECSSD)
Europe and Central Asia Region (ECA)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Lithuanian Litas
LTL 1 = US$ 0.25
USS I = LTL 4
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEM                  Country Econornic Memorandum
ECA                  Europe and Central Asia
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FRR                  Financial rate of Return
EU                   European Union
EU Phare             EU support program to countries in Economic transition
GEF                  Global Environmental Facility
GoL                  Governmnet of Lithuania
HELCOM               Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission
HELCOM PITF          HELCOM Project Implementation Task Force
JCP                  Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Plan
LTL                  Lithuanian Litas
NEFCO                Nordic Environmental Finance Corporation
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
Ramsar               International Convention on protection of wetlands
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA                 Swedish International Development Agency
SLU                  Swedish University of Agriculture
SW                   Siauliai Waters (Siauliu Vandenys)
TA                   Technical Assistance
USD                  US dollar
WWTP                 Wastewater treatment plant
Vice President:  Johaness F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:  Michel F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:  Jane E. Holt
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Inesis Kiskis



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LITHUANIA
SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   8
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     18
9. Partner Comments                                                                   20
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P035783                                      Project Name: SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT
Team Leader: Inesis Kiskis                               TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Naine: SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT                         L/C/TFNtanber: SCL-39630;
PPFB-P2840
Countty/Department. LITHUANIA                                           Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: VP - Pollution Control / Waste Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/09/1995                             Effective: 12/04/1996        12/04/1996
Appraisal:  06/09/1995                               MTR:
Approval:  12/05/1995                             Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA/MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION
Other Partners:  Ministry of Environment, Finland; Swedish International Aid Agency (SIDA),
Norwegian Pollution Control Authority
STAFF                CuiTent                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johaness F. Linn                         Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Micheal F. Carter                         Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Jane E. Holt                              Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:  Inesis Kiskis                             Sari K. Soderstrom
ICR PrimaiyA Author:  Inesis Kiskis; Kari Johansson;
Paavo Eliste
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Perfbrmance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entil:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The overall rating of the project outocme is "marginally satisfactory". Justification for such rating is
provided in Section 4.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall purpose of the Project was to promote regional environmental cooperation, address
pollution sources in Upper Lielupe River Basin and promote its environrnentally sustainable
management and development. The following project objectives were defined:
*   reduction of various pollutant loads from the Siauliai Area in the Upper Lielupe River Basin,
thus decreasing the transboundary pollution into the river and the Gulf of Riga;
*   improvement of the quality, reliability and cost efficiency of water supply and wastewater
services in Siauliai;
* assist in establishing financially sustainable provision of municipal services; and
* improvement of the regional and local environinental quality monitoring and enforcement
system in the Upper Lielupe River Basin
3.2 Revised Objective:
Original Objectives were not revised
3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of two complementary components. The Project originally comprised:
a. Water and wastewater component (US$ 21.0 million), which included support for rehabilitation,
upgrading and expansion of the water and wastewater system, including equipment and works, and
engineering services. An important element was institutional strengthening through a contractual
twining arrangement with a westem water and wastewater utility. The key activities within this
component were envisaged as follows:
i. Water supply and distribution
*   construction of an iron removal plant at the existing Birute groundwater wellfield;
*   renewal of pumps requiring high maintenance and supply of critical spare parts; and
*   carry out a leak detection and control program.
ii. Wastewater Collection and Treatment:
*   rehabilitation of the sewerage system to reduce infiltration and leakage;
*   rehabilitation of pumping stations requiring high maintenance including provision of energy
efficiency equipment;
*   rehabilitation of the existing Siauliai wastewater treatment plant to allow operations during the
construction of the new wastewater treatment plant; and
*   completion of the new wastewater treatment plant, including main pumping station, screens,
grit removal, primary sedimentation, aeration, phosphorus removal, final sedimentation and
sludge dewatering.
iii. Technical Assistance for:
-2 -



*   preparation of a detailed tariff study for Siauliai Water;
*   support to PIU (engineering design, project coordination and construction supervision); and
*   institutional restructuring and strengthening (including the twining arrangement) and training
for Siauliai Water.
b. Environmental Management Component (US$ 1.85 million) The activities to be supported under this
component included:
i. Direct Support for the Lithuanian side of the "Lielupe River Basin Commission"
ii. Regional Environmental Monitoring and Water Quality laboratory System
iii. Small point source pollution control
iv. Non-point source Pollution Control
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                            Cost $ Rating
A. Water Supply                                   5,820,000.00           S
B. Sewerage                                       1,290,000.00           S
C. Wastewater                                    14,400,000.00           S
D. TA to PIU                                      1,110,000.00          NR
E. TA to Siauliai Water/Twinning                  1,410,000.00           S
G. Support to Lielupe River Basin Commission       220,000.00           NR
H. Regional Environmental Monitoring               180,000.00            S
I. Small Point-Source Pollution Control            400,000.00            S
J. Non Point Source Pollution Control              300,000.00            S
3.5 Qutality at Entty:
Quality at entry was not reviewed by Quality Assurance Group. During the project preparation the best
available, although not accurate, information on water production, consumption and system losses as well
as professional judgement were used. During implementation, it became clear that problem of
extreme decline in water demand had been experienced in all projects water and wastewater
related projects in countries with economies in transition without regard to their sources of
financial support. However, the water consurnption collapse in Siauliai was the sharpest in among the
Baltic water utilities in which the World Bank has had the projects. As a result, the facilities which were
built as a part of project are overdimensioned for the present-day water flows and this has resulted in
additional financial burden on Siauliai Water company and its customers. Nevertheless, it is project team's
opinion that tariffs for water services in Siauliai remain within affordability limits.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcomne/achievenen7t of objective:
In terms of physical implementation, Project achieved all but one of the objectives - the construction of the
new wastewater treatment plant was not finished by the closing date of the project. In terms of capacity
building, the project outcomes are very satisfactory, and will serve as a basis for lasting results in terms of
better management in the Upper Lielupe river basin, and in the Siauliai Water company. Discharges of
pollutants from point and non-point sources into the rivers of the Upper Lielupe River Basin are
considerably less than in the beginning of Project. Nevertheless, the overall rating of project outcomes is
- 3 -



only "marginally satisfactory". Such rating is based on the fact that certain key assumptions, particularly
the water consumption per capita, under which project was designed did not materialize. Also, the dialogue
with the Borrower on dimensioning the wastewater treatment plant and on the treated effluent treatment
parameters was a way too long, which resulted in substantial implementation delays. In the second part of
project implementation the Siauliai Municipality decreased its active involvement in the project. Delays in
tariff adjustments and sluggishness in making other critical decisions contributed to worsening of Siauliai
Water's financial situation, and the company was not able to reach the predefined profitability indicators.
At the same time, the positive side of the prolongated project implementation is that now the Ministry of
Environment fully backs the principles of cost efficiency in the environmental sector. The project team is
confident that any new project in water or waste management sectors will be scrutinized thoroughly in
order to avoid overinvestment and associated excessive operation costs. The detailed outcomes by
component and their causes are described below in Section 4.2. Annex 1 provides certain data on
operations in Siauliai Water company.
4.2 Outputs by components.
a. Water and wastewater component
(i) Water supply and distribution
*   Construction of an iron removal plant at the existing Birute groundwater welifield. Iron
removal plant (Contract value USD 5.5 million) was successfully built and is operational since
July 2000. The treated water meets all Lithuanian and EU drinking water quality requirements.
See Annex I Table 2 for water quality data.
*   Renewal of pumps requiring high maintenance and supply of critical spare parts. This small
component was successfully implemented. (Contract value USD 0.26 million).As a result of it,
electricity consumption was reduced down to 0.22 kWh/mr (from 0.89 to 0.67 kWh/mi). This
corresponds to an annual saving of about US$ 22,000.
*   Carry out a leak detection and control program. Together with twining partners from
Trondheim and Kristianstad, the Siauliai Water turned this initial program into a continuous
activity.
(ii) Wastewater Collection and Treatment:
*   Rehabilitation of the sewerage system to reduce infiltration and leakage. The component was
successfully completed achieving the renovation of 3.3 km of sewer, as planned. Leakage
detection has been successful resulting in 126 leaks discovered and repaired during the last
three and half years. The accumulated leakage prevented is estimated as 107,000 m /year,
corresponding to a prevented loss of US$ 38,000/year. Digitizing of the service networks in
Siauliai is now 95% complete and about to provide a modem network management platform.
*   Rehabilitation of pumping stations requiring high maintenance including provision of energy
efficiency equipment. The rehabilitation of the main pumping station (US$ 3.0 million) will be
completed by November 2001, almost a year ahead of the WWTP. The 8 km long rising main
(US$ 2.9 million) was completed in March 2001. The rising main and the pumping station
have been dimensioned to the same flow estimates as the new WWTP, and have the same over
capacity.
-4 -



*   Rehabilitation of the existing Siauliai wastewater treatment plant to allow operations during
the construction the new wastewater treatment plant. This activity was dropped in the course
of project implementation to allow to c redistribute funds to other components.
*   Completion of the new wastewater treatment plant. including main pumping station. screens,
grit removal, primary sedimentation, aeration, phosphorus removal, final sedimentation and
sludge dewatering. The construction of the new wastewater treatment plant (original cost
estimate US$ 6.34 million, to be financed by SIDA US$ 4 million grant and the rest by GOL)
was not completed by the closing date of the project, as the construction contract was
concluded only in May, 2001, more than four years later than originally planned. The reason
for delay was lengthy discussions between the Borrower, Beneficiary and Donors about the
dimensioning and the treatment efficiency of the new wastewater treatment plant. Neither
donor (SIDA), nor Bank could agree with Borrower's request that the new treatment plant were
be as big as originally planned (60,000 mr/day), nor that in first phase it should comply with
the country's overly strict nitrogen removal requirements. Eventually a compromise was
achieved and the new wastewater treatment plant will be able to treat 50,000 m /day, and the
treatment levels for nitrogen and phosphorus at first phase are set at 18 mg/l and 1.5 mg/l
levels respectively. Additionally, the design of the wastewater plant was delayed due to
irregularities in selecting the donor financed consultant for designing the wastewater treatment
plant.
b. Environmental management component
* Direct Support for the Lithuanian side of the "Lielupe River Basin Commission". This activity
introduced a river basin management concept, as it was adopted in Sweden, to Lithuanian and
Latvian environmental authorities, and stimulated the cross border environmental cooperation
between the two countries. Unfortunately, the attempt to create the Commission was slightly
ahead of its time. Although formally functional, the newly created commission did not turn into
decisive decision making organization, because neither Lithuanian nor Latvian legislations
envisaged a role for river basin management commissions in the water resource management
framework. Realizing that, EU PHARE expressed a willingness to continue supporting the
capacity building of the Lielupe River Basin Commission in the context of the EU Water
Framework Directive . It should be noted that in July 2001 Lithuania and Latvia closed the
Environmental Chapters of the EU accession negotiations, and application of the river basin
management concept became an imperative in these countries. Looking from this perspective,
both Lithuanian and Latvian environmental authorities responsible for the Lielupe River Basin
are well prepared to apply gained knowledge in new conditions.
*   Regional Environmental Monitoring and Water Qualitv Laboratory System. Laboratory
equipment was procured to upgrade the capabilities of the Siauliai Regional Environmental
Protection Department, including: Atomic Absorption Spectrometer, Microwave Digestion
System, Capillary Ion Analysis System, Hydrogen Generator for Gas Chromatograph. All the
aforementioned equipment is extensively used by the Siauliai branch of the Joint
Environmental Quality Research laboratory for monitoring the status of ambient environment.
*   Small point source pollution control. This component, which was financed by Finnish
Ministry of Environment introduced low cost measures to better manage manure in large pig
farms. The study phase of the project was extremely successful, and the Siauliai Regional
Environmental Protection Department regards it as a "best practice" case due to very close
- 5 -



cooperation between the consultant, management of the pig farm, and authorities. At later
stages, however, when the Agricultural Company began implementing the recommendations, it
nearly went bankrupt due to extremely unfavorable developments in the pork market. However,
at the end of the project (June, 2001) it was recovering from the recession, and the
management was fully committed to continue implementation of its environmental management
plan.
*   Non-point source Pollution Control. After delayed start, the activities under this SIDA
financed component developed at an accelerated pace. The Bariunai Agrofirma, a large
agricultural company with diversified activities, which geographically is adjacent to the
Sidabra Pig Farm, was chosen for demonstration activities. By the Closing Date of the entire
project, management of the Bariunai Agrofirma was fully committed to follow environmentally
sound farming practices. The specific activities within the project included construction of a
manure pad, demonstration activities with crop rotation, training sessions for staff of the
Bariunai and neighboring farms. Cooperation between the Swedish Agricultural University, the
management of the Bariunai Agrofirma, the Lithuanian Water Management Institute and the
Siauliai Regional Environmental Protection Department was constructive. The most critical
factor of success both in Bariunai and Sidabra farms is the high level of ownership and
commitment by the farm management. The activities launched within the project will be
continued, and it is anticipated that Bariunai Agrofirma would participate in the proposed GEF
Baltic Sea Regional Project.
*   Sludge Management Study. The Government of Norway sponsored preparation of sludge
management plan in Austrakiai - a location where wastewater sludge has accumulated for
decades, and where new wastewater treatment was to be constructed. The study proposed a
number of low cost sludge management solutions. The Siauliai Water Company and is testing
some of proposed techniques in order to find the most suitable one.
*   Industrial Pollution Management. The Govemment of Finland supported development of a
specialized industrial pollution management software for Siauliai Regional Environmental
Protection Department. The software was produced and currently is used by Siauliai Regional
Environmental Protection Department. Unfortunately, several software 'bugs' which, does not
affect software's overall functionality but makes it less user friendly were not cleaned up by
end of the Siauliai Environment Project. Lithuanian and Finnish Ministries of Environment are
considering a following project to the correct existing bugs and upgrade the current version of
software.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic rate of return was calculated only for investments in Siauliai Water Company. Assuming a
price elasticity of demand of-0.5 for domestic, and -0.25 for institutional and commercial consumers, and
20 years of economic life of assets - i.e. Baseline Scenario, (See Annex 3, Table 1), the ERR of the water
and wastewater component of the Project for 1996 - 2015 period is 3.8 percent. Assuming an elasticity of
demand of -0.4 for domestic consumers, the ERR increases the ERR to 5.1 percent, and with elasticity of
demand of -0.25 the ERR would be 7.1 percent (see Annex 3).
The Siauliai Water Company was not able to reach satisfactory financial performance over the 1996 -
2000 period, in spite of relatively rapid tariff escalation. The working ratio, the main indicator for capital
cost recovery did not reach the 60 percent target, needed for full cost recovery and financial sustainability
- 6 -



of operations. Other financial targets set during the negotiations were also not reached (see Figure 1 in
Annex 1). The major reasons for poor financial performance has been the deeper than expected decrease of
water consumption, large unpaid debts from some industrial customers (i.e. Municipal Heating Company)
and delayed tariff decisions by owners.
Table 4.1. Financial performance of SW in 1996-2001
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000     2001
Net Revenues                         MLTL     17.4   17.4   16.8   17.8   16.4      16.0
- Total O&M Costs                 MLTL      12.3   11.9   12.4   12.7   12.4      12.3
Operating Margin                     MLTL      5.1    5.4    4.4    5.1    4.0       3.7
-Depreciation                     MLTL       3.9    4.1    4.1    4.2    4.4       4.1
-Other costs, income              MLTL       0.3    0.2   -0.1   -0.4   -0.2      -1.7
Net Profit                           MLTL      1.5    1.5    0.2    0.6   -0.6      -2.1
Financial Indicators
-Operating Margin                            29     31      26     29     25       27
-Working Ratio                        %      71     69      74     71     75       75
-Operating Ratio                       %      93     92     98     95    102        94
1/ Estimates based on January to September data.
2/ Working ratio = (Total O&M + Non-core costs)/ Total revenues. SAR target < 60 percent.
3/ Operating ratio = (Total O&M + Depreciation + Interest cost) / Total revenues. SAR target < 85
percent.
4.4 Financial rute of r eturn:
The financial rate of return (FRR) in Siauliai Water Company for baseline scenario was 9.5 percent. The
FRR was 11 and 13.2 percent assuming the price elasticity of demand -0.4 and -0.25 respectively.
4.5 Institutiontal development impact:
The project had a substantial institutional development impact. This is particularly true for the Siauliai
Water company. During the Project, the company developed into a shareholding company with a modem
management structure. It is opinion of the Project team that the management of Siauliai water is fully up to
its tasks. Management of the company benefited from a twining arrangement with the Kristianstad
(Sweden) and Trondheim (Norway) water companies. During the years of Project implementation, the
Project Team emphasized the introduction of a modem corporate management structure, and a strategic
planning process. Siauliai Water championed the preparation of Strategic Plans among other Baltic water
utilities.
At the same time, the decline of support to Siauliai Water from the owner's side over the 1999-2001 period
hurt the Siauliai Water's financial results.
In the Environmental Management Component, the most significant development impact was on Siauliai
Regional Environmental Protection Department, the Sidabra Pig Farm and the Bariunai Agrofirma
Agricultural Company. During the project, the staff of these entities had an excellent opportunity for
"hands-on training" on how to achieve environmental improvement in the period of transition toward
market economy. During the workshops which were held in Sidabra and Bariunai, experiences were shared
both with staff of environmental authorities and the neighboring farms.
- 7 -



Taken alone, the demonstration activities carried out in the Sidabra and Bariunai Agricultural Companies
could not have a decisive impact on the quality of the surface and ground water in the Lielupe river Basin.
However, they very well demonstrated that new ideas in environmental management can be introduced
only when there are appropriate legal and economic incentives, and when environmental legislation is
enforced in the same manner on all players. The Project supported the most forward-looking agricultural
companies, and as a result of that they have got a competitive advantage on the market place in the context
of Lithuania's accession to EU.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the conitrol of government o0- implementing agency:
In the opinion of the Project Team, the major factor outside the Government and implementing
agency control was a sharp decline in water consumption.
During the project period (1996-2000), demand for water services in Siauliai in terms of billed
water decreased for 55 percent. Decline of billed water for commercial customers has been especially
dramatic, declining about 75 percent during this period. Domestic consumption, which amounts currently
of some 75 percent from total billed water has declined from 145 Ipcd in 1996 to 59 Ipcd in 2000 - a 60
percent decline. The total water production declined by 52 percent during the project period See Figure
5.1 and Annex 3 Table 1.
Figure 5.1 Dynamics of Water Production and Consumption in Siauliai in 1991-2001
450
400     421 -                                     Specific prod. I/pid
33%
350 - - [1<    370                         -0-Specific cons. I/p/d
300
250                        254     0
200 Q1
150-
100
50
0
1991  1992  1993   1994  1995   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000   2001
Years
The decline in water consumption is still continuing. The domestic water consumption was 55 Ipcd
during the first five months of 2001. However, some of it may be accounted for by a manipulation of water
meters, which has become a widely used practice among local population.
- 8 -



Unaccounted for water has increased some 45 percent since the beginning of the project, reaching
to 28 percent in 2001. The trend has been upward since 1999 when water metering started in individual
apartments.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government of Lithuania was highly committed to the project in 1995, seeing it as a means of
eradicating a high priority environmental "hot spots" as identified in the JCP. Both Ministries of
Environment and Finance closely monitored the progress of project implementation. The Ministry of
Environment expected that at the end of the project discharges from the new wastewater treatment plant in
Siauliai would meet the HELCOM recommendations for municipal sources.However, the views on the
ways and means to achieve this broad goal were not exactly the same as of Bank and the donor community.
During the project preparation in 1995, the Lithuanian decision makers and sector professionals did not
have any experience in water demand reduction. All their education and professional experience pointed out
to ever increasing population growth and consumption patterns. By that time, international water sector
professionals working with Lithuanian's officials began to anticipate reductions in water consumption in
countries making the transition to a market economy, but their views were not supported by enough
evidence. The SAR did not identify reduced water sales as a risk or even discuss it, but instead forecast a
slow increase in service demand. During implementation, intensive discussions developed regarding the
dimensioning of the wastewater treatment plant, which resulted in a compromise between the Borrower,
Donor and Bank. Despite the fact that the facilities which were financed by Project in Siauliai are smaller
than originally planned, the project team agrees they still are over dimensioned for current and medium
term perspective needs.
The unquestionable result of the project is that the Ministry of Environment now fully understands the
trade-offs between a desired wastewater treatment level with its investment and operation costs on one hand
and the social implications of undertaking these activities - on the other. In planning future investments to
be the supported by EU accession funds, the Ministry of Environment pays due respect to experiences
gained during the Siauliai Environment Project.
At the same time, a Government Decision (#1507 of December 31, 1998) requiring the installation of water
meters in all apartments at the company's expense, and to settlement of the bills based on the readings of
those individual rather than the master meters, put an unfair burden on company's financial standing. Bank
has been raising this issue with Government ever since, but the decree remained unmodified by the Closing
Date of the Project.
5.3 Factors generalliy subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. Siauliai Municipality. During project preparation and early stages of implementation, The
municipality of Siauliai extended all its support to Siauliai Water Company. Although the tariff
adjustments not always were timely, until year 2000 they were sufficient to compensate for declining water
consumption. The municipality was cooperative in redesigning the management structure of the Siauliai
Water. In the second half of project implementation, however, the municipality passed several decisions
that had a detrimental impact on Siauliai Water's financial situation, and was hesitant to adjust the tariffs in
a timely manner. All this has contributed to negative financial results of the Siauliai Water in 2000, and
consequences will be felt for several years to come.
5.3.2. Siauliai Water Company. The Company staff strictly followed the applicable procurement guidelines
-9-



- those of the World Bank, donor countries and the Lithuanian ones, as appropriate. Contractor selection
processes were transparent. Several attempts to influence procurement decisions were reported to Bank,
and members of the project team stepped in to explain the losing bidders and their representatives the
procedures which were applied in every particular case.
The PIU supervised the implementation of works financed by the Project and achieved that all the works
were undertaken with high quality.
However, the management of the company underwent the same "leaming process" as did the Ministry of
Environment in terms of defining the water flows and setting wastewater treatment targets. This means that
the Siauliai Water also contributed to delayed decision making on this subject and to the fact that the
wastewater treatment plant was not commissioned by the Closing Date of the Project.
5.3.3. The Siauliai Regional Environmental Protection Department was a key player implementing the
Environmental Management Component. The Director of the Siauliai Environmental Quality Research
laboratory acted as a manager for this component and deserves credit for the positive outcome of activities
carried out within this component.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Compared to the SAR, the Project did not experience major cost overruns. However, some reallocations
were made among the sub-components. Some funds originally earmarked to rehabilitate the old wastewater
treatment plant were reallocated to construction of a raising main from Siauliai to the new wastewater
treatment plant.
Cooperating donors provided their funds in a timely manner. The Lithuanian Government remained
committed to the project and provided co-financing. However, in 1998-1999 Government had difficulties
in paying, due to a budget crisis; fortunately, the need for such funds was below original calculations due to
delays in decision making regarding the wastewater treatment plant.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
For the Water and Wastewater Improvement Component sustainability rating is "likely" in medium term
perspective. For Environmental Management Component the sustainability rating is "likely" without
qualifications, given the high degree of commitment to environmental improvement by local environmental
authorities and participating agricultural farms.
Operations of the Siauliai Water may become fully sustainable in medium term perspective, provided the
Municipality, the owner, extends the company a fair support. The "likely" ratings based on the following
considerations:
1. Water demand. The future performance of SW is primarily deterrnined by water demand dynamics, the
municipality's tariff policy, savings in operating costs and improvements in system efficiency. Based on
the monthly water consumption data provided by Siauliai Water, the price elasticity of water demand for
the period of 1997 to 2000 was -0.7 (Figure 1 presents price/consumption dynamics based on linear
relationship). This means that one percent increase of water tariffs would reduce domestic water
consumption by 0.7 percent. The price elasticity of water demand for 1997 to 1998 period was -0.7, while
elasticity of water demand for 1999 to 2000 period was -0.4.
- 10-



The relatively more elastic demand structure in 1997 - 1998 period reflects partly adjustment from
previously high levels of norm based water consumption to actual water consumption levels as measured by
water meters. However, the actual water volume consumed by the residents may not have decreased so
much as a response to higher tariff levels, as the norm based water consumption figures may have
overestimated the actual water consumption.
Figure 1: Water consumption in Siauliai (1996-2001)
2 5
W.  2
(LT
L3 1.5
0.5 
0 i
0         100        200        300        400       500        800        700
ToMa ..tr . .. .. .. ptl-n (.31-oth)
The future water demand projections are based on elasticity of demand is -0.5 (i.e. Baseline
Scenario). For the purposes of sensitivity analysis, it was also assumed that elasticity of demand is -0.4
(i.e. Scenario 1) and -0.25 (Scenario 2) as there may be less room to further reduce the water consumption
levels in the future, which is already one of the lowest in the Baltic States. Elasticity of demand for
institutional and commercial consumers was assumed -0.25 for all scenarios.
- 1 1 -



2. Financial Outcome and Cost Recovery. The future tariff dynamics were developed by assuming that
SW would be able achieve a satisfactory financial sustainability and full cost recovery no earlier than by
2003. In order to achieve this target, tariffs need to be increased by 25 percent in year 2002 (a proposed
tariff increase) and another 28 percent in 2003 (Table 6.2).
Figure 6.2. Actual and projected tariff adjustment (1996 - 2010)
LT
LI
3
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  200S  2007  2008  2009  2010
Year
The actual tariff decisions will depend on the political decisions of municipality and company's
management performance and cost cuttings efforts. It will also depend on how successfully the company is
able to recover debt from consumers and reduce the water losses (i.e. unaccounted for water). The
company is presently providing water to some 113,000 people out of a population of about 135,000. There
is thus not much scope for service expansion in Siauliai. The service demand, however, is expected to
stabilize during the next few years after certain reduction as a response to increase to water tariffs
(assuming the elasticity of demand -0.5 for domestic consumers and -0.25 for institutional and commercial
consumers, Figure 6.3).
- 12 -



Figure 6.3. Actual and projected water consumption (1996 - 2010)
8000  .
7000
G0000
50000
34000  _        I       _    _     __*_*__
3000
2000 _  |    |    |   |    |    ;    |   |   |    |   |   |{
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010
Y.ar
Based on the above assumptions on tariff and water demand development, the projected net revenues and
financial indicators are presented in Table 6.1. It is expected that the company will achieve the full cost
recovery by 2003. The projections assume slightly increasing O&M costs in 2002 and 2003, due to
expected increase in the cost of major production inputs (i.e. electricity, heating, and labor) in real terms,
and increasing maintenance costs due to accumulation of the fixed assets.
Table 6.1: Projected Financial Performance of Siauliai Water (2002 - 2010).
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Net Revenue                  MLTL     18.4  20.9  20.9  20.9  20.9  20.9  20.9  20.9  20.9
-Total O&M Costs          MLTL     11.9  12.1  12.1  12.1  12.1  12.1  12.1  12.1  12.1
Operating Margin             MLTL      6.5   8.E   8.8   8.8   8.E  8.E   8.8   8.E   8.8
-Depreciation            MLTL       5.    5.E   5.8  5.8   5.E   5.E   5.8   5.E   5.8
Net Profit                   MLTL     -0.4   1.3   1.6   1.7   1.9  2.2   2.4   2.7   3.0
Financial Indicators                              =
- Operating Margin                  37    43    43    43    43    43    43   43    43
- Working Ratio            %        63    57    57    5     5     5     57    5     57
- Operating Ratio          %        87    81    811   81    81    81    81    81    81
The prospects for self-financed investments (i.e. replacement investments) will diminish in the
coming years as company starts to make the loan repayments of the Bank loan. The debt service costs will
reach its peak in 2004 and 2005 when company is expected to make loan service payments in the amount of
some 5.3 million LTL. In order to maintain full cost recovery of its operations the company may need
either to seek additional financing sources or to postpone some of its replacement investments. Without
additional financing, the company is able to reinvest only some 60 to 80 percent of amortization of its fixed
assets during the period of 2002 to 2010. However, the cash from operations during this period is
sufficient to cover fully the debt service costs, assuming that the projected tariff adjustments will take place
(Table 6.2). Should the Siauliai Water Company or Municipality decide not to follow the projected tariff
policy or the decline in water consumption will be deeper than projected, the company's ability to achieve
- 13 -



full cost recovery and service its debt may be significantly hampered. Delayed tariff increases may thus
lead to serious difficulties in company's debt service commitments.
Table 6.2: Projected Use of Funds and Cash Flow for 2002 - 2010
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Cash flow from Operations          MLTL     6.5  8.8   8.8  8.   8.    8.   8.8  8.8  8.8
-Debt Service Cost                 MLTL     2.9  4.6   5.3  5.3  5.2   4.'  4.7  4.4  4.1
- change in Net Working Capital     MLTL     0.2  0.3  0.0   0.   0.C  0.   0.0   0.   0.0
Cashforinvcstments                   MLTL     3.4  3.S   3.5  3.5  3.   3.8   4.1  4.31 4.6
Replacement Investments              MLTL     3.4  4.    3.5  3.5  3.6  3.8  4.1   4.4  4.7
3. Affordability
Evaluation of affordability of the cost of water and sewerage supply services is based on assumption
that the average household size in Siauliai consists of 3.2 members. The average household income in
Siauliai in 2001 was some 1,300 LTL per month, while the average earnings of low income households
was 600 LTL per month. It was assumed that household incomes increase at the rate of 3% per year. The
cost of water services as a percent from household income will increase until 2003 and will start to
decrease gradually thereafter. It is expected that the future water and sewerage service cost will remain
within the 5 percent limits of household income (Figure 6.4).
Figure 6.4: Service cost share in household earnings in 2001-2010.
60                             - -  -_--_-_--_.             _ _ __ _
5.0
4 0
E~       ~             ~
2.0
0 0
2002   2003    2004   2005    2006   2007    2008    2009   2010
Yea,
4. Economic Analysis
The ERR of the project for 1996 - 2015 period is 3.8 percent, assuming a price elasticity of demand
-0.5 for domestic and -0.25 for institutional and commercial consumers, and 20 years of economic life of
assets - i.e. Baseline Scenario (Annex 3, Table 1). The results are sensitive to the actual elasticity of
demand. Assuming elasticity of demand -0.4 for domestic consumers, the ERR would increase to 5.1
- 14 -



percent. The elacticity of demand of -0.25 would increase ERR to 7.1 percent (see Table 1 - 3 in Annex
3).
The crucial question is what would have been the economic feasibility of the project if the actual
decline in water consumption could have been foreseen during project preparation and project investments
adjusted accordingly. We assume a scenario where by foreseeing the dramatic decline in water
consumption the SW would have decided to rehabilitate only the existing water and wastewater treatment
plant (WWTP), rather than investing in a new plant as happened under the project. This would have
provided an estimated investment savings of some USS 10.6 million (reduction of new WWTP USS 11.7
million as well as pumping station and rising main US$ 5.9 million but adding renovation of the old
WWTP of US$ 7 million). The ERR of this investment scenario would be 11.3 percent (see Table 4 in
Annex 3).
6.2 Transition arrangement to r egular operations:
The Siauliai Water company has already moved to a regular operations process, as the overall project
implementation was oriented on achieving this goal. Indicators for monitoring future operations of the
Siauliai Water company are in place. Performance indicators include but are not limited to:
Financial and operational: (i) operating margin, (ii) level of bill collection, (iii) percentage of unaccounted
water, (iv) number of employees per 1 km of network. For more details see Annex 1 Key Performance
Indicators, Table 1 & Table 3, and Figure 1.
Environmental: BOD7 mg/l, Suspended solids mg/l, N t mg/I, P t mg/l, however reductions of discharges
of pollutants are attributable to reduced water consumption, rather than to project related activities. The
new wastewater treatment plant in Siauliai will be commissioned in May 2002;
Hygienic drinking water quality: Nitrite mg/l, Nitrate mg/l, Total Iron mg/l, turbidity, special energy
conductivity. For more details see Annex 1, Performance Indicators, Table 2.
The Sidabra and Bariunai Farms also are in mode of regular operations, but are paying particular attention
to environmental issues in their everyday work. The Bariunai farm expects to participate in the proposed
GEF Baltic Sea Regional Project and to invest into manure management facilities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal was satisfactory.
The project was prepared as a response to a request of the Government of Lithuania, which under its
obligation as a Contracting Party to the Helsinki Convention and as a national environmental priority, had
committed itself to clean up of the Baltic Sea. The project was identified, prepared and appraised in close
cooperation with the Government, as well as with the Helsinki Commission, and potential donors.
The Bank's team represented a mix of environmental, technical, economic and procurement specialists with
extensive knowledge of the sector and Bank operations. The team was comprised of Headquarters and Field
office based staff who all possessed good knowledge of local conditions.
- 15 -



The Bank provided its assistance to the Government of Lithuania in designing a two-component project
concept, which introduced market based approaches in the water and wastewater management sector,
institutional strengthening of the water utility and also provided for demonstration of new environmental
management approaches in the adjacent area.
A number of risks were identified during appraisal. These included (i) slippage from the original schedule
due to limited experience of the Government of Lithuania, Siauliai Water and its PIU in management and
implementation of a project of this scale and complexity; (ii) a risk that the Government of Lithuania and
Municipality of Siauliai would face difficulties in providing the counterpart funding in a timely manner;
(iii) lack of political commitment at the national and/or local level to transform the Siauliai Water into an
independently managed water and wastewater utility; (iv) political economy factors that could interfere
with commitment to adjust the tariffs in a timely manner (v) continued problems with bill collection. These
were well- predicted risks, and the project encountered all of them. Failure to complete construction of the
wastewater treatment plant by the closing date was caused more by the need to move from the old paradigm
for solving wastewater related problems, rather a lack of experience in managing the projects. The only
reason for extending the closing date of the project for 12 months was the need to allow to facilitate
retention payments to the contractor after the warranty period for the Birute Iron Removal Plant expired.
The major risk anticipated for the environmental management component was the great number of actors
involved in its implementation, and the inability of the Siauliai Regional Environmental Protection
Department to coordinate their activities effectively. However, these concerns did not materialize, as the
staff assigned to coordinate implementation of this component proved to be highly efficient.
There were no risks anticipated in introducing the technology, and this proved correct during project
implementation as Lithuanian personnel were fully capable of operating and maintaining the equipment
provided under the project.
During appraisal, the Bank maintained very close relationships with prospective co-financiers from
European Union (Phare) Program; the Governments of Finland and Sweden. The donor representatives
were invited to participate in the appraisal mission and to comment on project design and implementation
arrangements.
The lending instrument -single currency fixed interest rate loan was a suitable one, as per situation in 1995,
when the loan was negotiated. It practically excluded the currency risk, since Lithuanian currency was
pegged to US dollar at a constant exchange rate. Exchange risk will appear when Litas is repegged to Euro
in February 2002.
The project was fully consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies valid at the time of project appraisal. It
was placed in environmental screening category "B" and did not involve any involuntary resettlement or
land acquisition.
7.2 Suipervision.
Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory.
Supervision missions visited Siauliai regularly at 6-month intervals. In between missions,
continuous implementation support to the Borrower was extended from the Bank's Riga and
Vilnius Offices. In order to maximize the efficiency of supervision, the missions included
representatives of both the Bank and co-financiers.
- 16 -



The project also adopted a unified reporting process for all cooperating parties, including the Bank,
which allowed for greater efficiency in the preparation, distribution and review of the reports by
Estonian and external parties.
PSR/Form 590 consistently rated project implementation as Satisfactory. These were realistic
evaluations, and the outcome of the project, as viewed by all cooperating parties, substantiates this
view.
There was continuity in supervising the project. The core of the supervision team remained
constant. While task managers changed twice, the new one each time was selected from the project
team. Three years before project completion, task management responsibility was transferred to the
field office staff that had been part of the team since inception of the project. Both of the previous
task managers remained involved in the implementation of the Project on an advisory basis which
provided additional continuity in the Bank team.
*      Supervision was substantially supported by the short-term Finnish consultants paid through the
Consultant Trust Fund; they were instrumental in advising the Siauliai Water on financial and
institutional development issues.
QAG reviewed the supervision process of the Project and it was recognized as a best practice case.
7.3 Overall Bank peiforinance:
Overall bank perfornance was satisfactory. Supervision was very closely coordinated with the
co-financiers, which enabled to solve the emerging problems, but at the same time to remain firm on critical
issues.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the
Government of Lithuania and the ultimate beneficiaries remained highly committed to the project, as they
saw this as an opportunity to meet their intemational obligations, and to improve environmental conditions
in the upper Lielupe River Basin. While Government's primary concern was achieving that the treated
wastewater meet the HELCOM recommendations, it accepted more comprehensive approach, as proposed
by Bank, which concentrated on achieving gradual environmental improvements through phased
introduction of marked based approaches into water sector management. Additionally, the Govemment
agreed on pilot scale projects aimed at reducing the non-source pollution from agricultural enterprises, thus
paving the way for follow-up projects at later stage.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government and Municipality performance during implementation was uneven, therefore it is rated as
marginally satisfactory. Ministries of Finance and Environment were budgeting adequate counterpart
resources for implementation of project. Due to budget crisis in 1998-1999, not all payment requests were
paid on time; however, by the closing date of the project, there were no outstanding payments. Ministry of
Environment efficiently implemented Component B of the Project. At the same time, decision making by
Lithuanian authorities regarding the dimensioning of the wastewater treatment plant should have been much
more expedient. Government did not respond positively to Bank's numerous requests to modify the
- 17 -



Government Decree #1507 of December 31, 1998, which put unjustified financial pressure on all
Lithuanian water companies. This is one of the causes why Siauliai water is in difficult financial situation.
Municipality fully appreciated importance of the project to Siauliai city and was supportive to the project,
particularly in its early stages of implementation. Municipality agreed to the bank's suggested management
structure in the Siauliai Water company, which differed from commonly adopted ones in Lithuania. Later
on, the support started to diminish: tariffs were not adjusted timely, and a number of other issues
influencing operations of the Siauliai Water Company, were not settled. Absence of these decisions
contributed to worsening of financial situation in Siauliai Water Company.
Implementation delays (absence of decision on the wastewater treatment plant) and delayed tariff decisions,
and failure to comply with certain legal covenants, lead to unsatisfactory project rating in 1998.
7.6 mnplementingAgencY:
Siauliai Water Company remained highly committed to project from inception to closure. It was most
responsive to Bank's suggestions on improvements in management structure of the company, and was most
open to managerial innovations among the five Baltic Water Utilities (Klaipeda, Liepaja, Haapsalu,
Daugavpils and Siauliai). The PIU staff remained unchanged during the project, and it was successful in
learning and applying the Bank and donor specific procurement guidelines, which allowed to use the
financial resources efficiently. At the same time, the Siauliai Water Company could have been more
pro-active in deciding the size of the new wastewater treatment plant.
7.7 Overall Borrower peiibrmiance:
The overall Borrower performance was marginally satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
From a project design point of view, the Siauliai Environment Project was a replication of the Liepaja and
the Haapsalu Matsalu Bays Environment projects. As the same project team was implementing them, a
number of lessons learned are similar to those of the aforementioned projects (Bank reports # 20967 and #
21738 respectively), however, the most important are as follows:
*   Cooperatively planned and implemented projects that are based on mutual trust between the Bank and
Borrower can "change the way" the cooperating parties "think" about environment and development
issues.
* The stronger the comnmitment at various levels within the Borrower country, the Bank and the
donors/co-financiers, the better the result. In the case of Siauliai, the commitment level was fluctuating
at certain stages of implementation which immediately affected the results of the project;
* Project reconfirmed findings of earlier completed projects that on Bank side it is important to ensure
continuity of the task managers/task team leaders and the composition of the task teams. This helps to
build confidence among various parties participating in the project, which is particularly important in
solving sensitive issues.
* Also, project reconfirmed that transforming of an existing water and wastewater utility developed in a
centrally planned economy into an efficiently managed self sustaining entity, and introduction of
modem corporate management ideas are much more challenging tasks than physical implementation of
the project. In similar projects special emphasis should be placed on institutional capacity building.
* The Siauliai Environment project explicitly reconfirmed the fact that while drafting the financial and
economic projections, the project teams should be conservative in their assumptions of critical
variables, which have the highest impact on revenues and costs. These tend to be too optimistic, and in
- 18 -



long run the projects are likely to experience lower than anticipated economic and financial rates of
return. Project appraisal should ensure that the assumptions are realistic and that contingency plans are
drawn for coping with deviations from the most likely outcomes. The range of possible outcomes with
their respective probabilities, although subjective, should be listed in the appraisal document.
*   Project reconfirmed findings of the Liepaja and Haapsalu Matsalu Bays Environment projects that
regional environmental offices can provide a bridge between the national ministry and local
governments in the planning and implementing projects.
*   The design and bidding documents should be ready by effectiveness of the Project. There was
difference between the Borrower on one hand and the Bank and Donors on the other in understanding
the technical issues, especially on the dimensioning concept of the facilities. Had the bidding documents
been ready by effectiveness, the excessive delays could have been avoided, and perhaps, some of over
investment could have been avoided;
*   Whenever possible, the "green field" projects shall be accepted for implementation, rather than
finalizing unfinished construction works in the facilities which were designed more than a decade ago,
because it is very costly to adopt the old structures for the present day needs. Re-building and
refurbishing involves additional excessive cost;
*   Price escalation was greater than expected (also in real terms) due to elimination of existing market
distortions and price disequilibriums, which were present in Lithuanian economy during the early
transition process. As a result, the O&M costs were higher than expected during the project
preparation;
*   Financial accounting and billing system in the water utility should be in one system. It is important
that company closely monitor the installation of the software by the contractor in order not to loose the
control over quality of installation. For example in Siauliai Water the accounting/ billing management
software was installed according to the daily schedule developed by Siauliai Water;
*   Preparation of Strategic Plan should be fully client driven process in order to build ownership, even if I
takes longer time than expected. In SW, for example, it took some 2 years to develop Strategic Plan
but is now widely used as a tool for planning operational and management activities.
- 19 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agencY:
LIETUV'OS RESPIrBLIKOS APLINKOS MIINISTERIJ,%
TFFE MIINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT OF TH1E REPUBLIC OF LITHUJNIA
A. JaIilo *tr. 4J9, LT-2094 V4tniuo Phone (.370 2) 62 36 S2, 61 4453 }rx (.370 2) 22 08 47, 62 36 20
lneqis Kiskis                                ZU01-12- 7/      No. 05-02- -TfM
1 ask l eam Leader
The World Bank, Vilnius Orrce
EVALUATION OF THE SIAULIAI
FNVIRONMENIAL PrUJkuI
The Siauliai Environment Project was the second environmental investment project in
Lithuania, financed by a grottp Af finanr.iers led hy the World Rank It was indertaken in
response to the request of Lithuanian Government to help in meeting its intenational obligations
iu ilipltU"ilit Ide statc of the Baltic Sea, and to providc better water and wastewater services to
inhabitants of Siauliai city. Additionally, the project aimed at improvement of environmental
managcment practices in the Upper Lielupe River
The main objectives of the project were as follows:
Reduction of various pollutant loads from the Siauliai area into the Upper Lielupe River Basin.
tl;us dereasing the trans-boundary pollution into the rivcr and the Gulf of Riga,
*  Improvement of the quality, reliability and cost efficiency of the water supply and wastewater
services in Siauliai;
. Assist in establishing financially sustainable provision of municipal services; and
* Improvement of regional and local environmental quality monitoring and enforcemnt system
in the Upper Liclupo River Basin
To implement the project, the (iovernnent of Lithuania sisned a number of agreements with
rlukniris iii 01d41 to impletnut tht plujma lTiube ,ixtuded Elie Wuild Bauk, SDA - Swedish
International Development Cooperation Agency (at the time of signing -BITS), Finnish Ministry
Of Environment, and Norwegian Pollution Control Authority.
In Ministry's opinion, thc Project outcore is gncerally positive, although iniplcnientation process
was not smooth, and due to slow start, it lasted longer than originally planned and till now is not
tinished. Prorject substantially contributed to improvement of water and wastewater services in
Siauliai city, and erbanc-wd the unvirvuicnul  imi4ugeuriit piaulics in tLh Uppw Lielupe Rivei
Basin. However, the new wastewater treatment plant was not commissioned by the closing date of
the WR loan
Cotsponent I. Water and WasttwaWter Improvement.
It is important to note that the Siauliai Water after reorganizing it into a joint stock
wu4pnuy, 1mb betn upc.e4uai usnder cununrcial law. Pi uject hClpCd to iatroducc in Siauliai the
tariff system which is based on the fl4l cost recovery concept. During the project, the management
and the staff of the company underwent a major capacity building exercise as a part of the
twinning arrangement with the SwtdJi%h and Nurwrgiuu w4tet witapauiem I is 4ue utha WtmuLly
the Siauliai Watcr cxpcriences certain financial difficulticq. however in longer term perspective
there are guod chances ror prnt'iu able operations.
- 20 -



T'he new iron removal plant at the Rinrte weltield is a visible and well appreciated result of the
project. FHowever, the facE that it took more than 4 years to agree on thte diIenICImnULIg oif die
wasitcwatul nieatinent plant is not acceptable. Looking from todayts pcrspcctivc, Ninw3sry of
E nvironment agrees that the original intentions to build a wvastewater treatment plant with a 60,000
mlJd capacity were not ihstantiated, and even the compromise capacily of JU.WU m7fd is still too
large for the short and meliurntein n eeds, ti%cii the 1ulIdJuiLl ded iiiiiiN water dei-natud patterni in
Siaulhdi city.
At the same time. the lessons learned on this project are consistently used in other similar priojects
which are financed by the local and EU funds, and all the elTon is rmade to avoid similar problems.
That is a value added ofthe spermingly negitive outcnme
The main lesson of ihis projeci component is that upgrading of ihe water and wastewater uulities
has to betn tied out in a phased iatiner, avoiding over-investment into facilities and hardware.
The development shall be in line with the affordablity limits of population, so that service cost
does not become an execssive burden on tamlly budtget However the water companies shaU have
all incentives to strive for carly achievexient of piesuibe t-flluejrL quality sNludud4zi at a Wesi
which is affordable to customers. The project demonstrated that cfficincy of operations at watr
utility can be substantially imprm'ed by small scale investments intn better accounting systems,
includini4 water meleringt reducing elec,riciiy consumption by replacing inefticienl and over-
dimensioned pumps, improved leakagc detection and prcvention, thus rcducing operational losscs;
and through reduction of excessive statr
Cumpuieinct 2, Emviruuiuculal Mauagcinczut.
Activities within this Component were mainly managed by the Ssaulxai Regional
Environmental Protection Depattment on behalf of the Ministry ol Enviiunmenc. The small scale
activities, which originally seemed to bc disconnccted and scattcred, eventually complemented
each other. This is particularly trUe Fur the 1aumin based nutrient run-ort management in the Sidabra
and Bariunai farms. It is obvious. that the c)operaijon between the thrm managers and the local
environmental authorities, which was initiated by the donor funded activities, will last into future.
The experience gained in this field will be very useful in implementing various EU directives
which shortly will become legally binding on Lithuanian farmers NMnistry expects, that both
Bariunai and Sidabra fiwnn will bcnefit proposed GEF Baltic Sea Regional Prject.
The Sinulhni Environment Project attempted to promote the nanagement ofwater resources based
on the river basin concept through extending  iippnrt to the, Liehipe River Basin Commission.
Although lthe IutLs of the pIojet 4ach1ieved by this cmpoHnelt may sem l1utd&b it paved a way
for implementation of the newly adopted EU Water Framework Directive, which has become a
clear national priority in the rnnipet of the uipov-ming Lrithiania's accesinon to Eurmpean I Inion
The 5taff of thc Siauliai Regional Environmental Protection Departmcnt gained expericnce both in
management of international projects as well as learned to use various procurement and
disbursement procedures.
Mlinistr of Environment would like to thank the World Bank, the Swedish International
Development Cooperation Agency, the Finnish Ministry (if Fnvirnnmeni and Norwegian Pollution
Cnntrol Authority for good c(operation iTilplementirng the Siauliai EnvilinmenL PrujecLl The
cxpericnces gaincd will be used in developing and implemcnting other investment projects
Sinc ercly,
Arunas Kundrotas  )
Minister
- 21 -



(')       S I A U L I U
_#VANDENYS
*01NT STOCX COCJON
VYtauto g 11)3 -4-) A O 1 Al I I A lihuania
Tcl. (370) 1 5255.9): FAjs, (170) 1 525575
9;nuliai Environment Project
(Water and Wastewater Improvemnent Component)
Proiect Evalualion
JSC `iauiliu vfandanis
The giauliai EAIVItuJIIN.1L PLject was a muln-dirensjoal proje,c. Although It was named
the  envaronmertal' prqjec:   t, t, i addmessed many oher aspects of eserydav liie in
giauliai and its environs As a resuk of the project. the drinking water quality in Aiauliai has
silpitficantly improved, the operaliJns of the company became more cfficien both from
technical and nwnageria point of view. The PivjrA %wuibutvd to improvomct of mimicipal
inftructre and also to as architecrjal image: the sae of the Biinte wellfield is an example
of excellent landcaping. After comnissioninm of the new wastewaer  eatment plant. the
discharges to the Upper Lielupe basin will be reduced even further. Howevar, fiom alobel
perspective, the projct had its bogcst impact on  institutional developent of tho Siauli4
Vandenvys cmpany.
1 2    Twmmma cooper*icm
Work under twinnng cooperauien agreemt should be sinled ow as one of nmu
imporin pro       activities JSC  Siaulit vandens" had concluded twinnn  cooperatio
agreemnnts with Trndheim (Norway) and Krisnanstad (Sweden) waer companies
Cooporaon with colleagus from Trondheim included   ei*ht joint projects, and covered
water supply sstems. water qualiy iniprowveenr. fmancial management, and stegic
Dlanning DurnR exewuto of these projects the util  procured new equipmwt (omputers.
sware. leakage dettr    equmienwt. etc) All projects were successfully cnmpleted Total
valuc of the projects was USS 0.15 million.
Togeher with cooperaton partners from Knsansad, the Stiauliu Vandenys  executed three
prnjects which dealt with imprrovumz of wastewater trvatmet and operations of waste water
laboratory. New equipment for the laboratory at the sewage tratment plant and the
equipmnt for pipe diagnostic, including a special TV camnra, werc procurod and nsatered.
The   ent oooperatton agreement wit Krstanstad wdl be cogwmled in 2002, concrty
with comnissioning of the new watewater trestmet plant. Total value of the projects was
USS 0.3 million.
The asstanco of World Bank consultants and the twinmng partners from Trmcdhem and
Kristianstad heed the uility to dvelop  to a Cmpany with modem  nwaUoinMit stucture
and to launch the trategic plSu"i8 process. During the project i_lentMation, the tuncial
nagmmnt systen wavs insalled in the utility, wich subamutialy inprovod the finsncial
nmanagenme in the uTility Throughoui the project, the staff closey cooperaud wit faeign
paitners and masteWed the new nethods of work as well as the new eq_wAst. Also, the
twinning partners hetlpM to dewlnp the geographical informatioaal system, aid to instalaion
the software for hydraulic simulatin ofthc rticulkaic, as well as the billing softwre.
- 22 -



1.3.   PluculTeIllelit
During the project inyletnentatiotn, elovevt uiLeiuatiuaul wnpvtitivu biddings warc carriod out
for procuromn. of works, gods and services. This provided the staff of tite Siulim to gain
experiencc in applying the Procurement Guidelines of World Bank as well as thosc of the
other donors.
3    C. nsu ltmi semrvces
Consulting servkes to the Siauliai Environment Projecr were provided hy five cnipitively
srectod consultng firm: Parkman (England. Technum (Belgium). Boz-Allen & Hiulitun
(France), Soil & Water (Fuiland). and VAI VA-Projekt (Sweden). Consulting services and the
hicidini d oruments whkch were provided by these companies were of satisfitctory quality, and
JSC  iauliq vandenys does not have any reproaches for these comnpanies6 These consulting
companies conveyed the most progressive intemational experience to the utility specialists
and to Lithuanian designing and construction, which served as their local partners .
C Ivil works
Out of fivw tundurs fir civil works, four were awarded to foreign companies and one to local
company. Such a disbalance can be explained by lack of experience of local companies in
preparing the applicatins for tender. Another reason could have bee that tender conditins
and requireiments were too high for local companies, On the other hand, local companies were
involved in the imlementation of all construction projects as subcontractors and gained
knowledge and experience for the fiture
The quality of all executed works is satisftcrory The design parAnrers of all commissioned
objects have ben reached. The projcct did not experimce cost overruns.
.4.   Project imple mion -t (PI
In order to implement the project, the PTU employing five persons was established. As the
members of the PIU did not have any experience in the implmentation of projects of such
scope, they underwent traming in the workshops, organized by the World Bank, Ministry of
EnvrOiwm    and other project donors. As Stauliai Envuronma  Projec was fianced by six
Juudila5 svwces, it wam cxtzufiauly iuzpuztaUt Lu uudws1tn  the, 4yvVii  1XvqUirUeaantb c
venivus  dunns mid tLo adopt fox each Pfstsular pojcct. flac PIU VsuCcisfu lUy uwKA dat.
reqiuremnests, thus tenders were carried out in a transparent manner and there have been no
reprnaches neither from donors, nor fiom bidders
Supervtcion of proj  inLenentation
Supervision of project implementation was carried out by the World bank, the Mmistry of
Environment and representatives of Lithuanian stae contfol Apart fiI the World Bank
missions. which would take place regulaulv twice per year. the P   tmaintained permanent
rclations with the World Bank Vilnius and Rigo offices, which provided both advise and
instructions, as appropnate.
On January 26, 1998, under the order * 11 of te Minister of Environment, the Project
Steenag Commttn   was established. Its work was not sufficiently effdive.  Only some
members of the Committee took interest i the progress of the project. The committee camed
out the key flmction only m takiLng tmportant decisions regarding the capacity and the
EreauneM efnciency of' We new waste water UauMA plant
- 23 -



CTomments Cc3r!di!g te DrojoctP
2.1. The time required for review of the bidding documents and issuing of "no objections" by
the %Vorld Bartc was by far too long. In order to speed up this process these functions could be
transferred to field offices.
2.2. Occasionally, the supervisiotn missions could have included the disbursement specialist to
adise more specifically on disbursement related issues. That would have helped to avoid
certain misunderstandings in rmanaging the special account.
2.3, It should be noted that the World Bank made a positive decision transferring Team
leaders to field offices, which is currently the case. This allows to solve the problems of
project implementation more prompt v.
24. Execution of cooperation agreements with Trondheim and Kristianstad water companies
positively influenced the activities of the utility. The utility acquired a lot of good experience
in the spheres of management, planning, introduction of new working methods, and
improvement of operations.
2.5. Some of the financial, economical, social projections, set by the World Bank  Staff
Appraisal Report in 1995, as well as projections regarding the technical dimensions and the
need of finds for the planned projects did not prove right.
3. Repayment of loan
Currently the repayment of loan is already causing large financial problems to JSC "Siauliq
vandenys". The first and the main reason is a dramatic decline in water consumption. Water
consumption by conmmercial users has declined by 75%, and domestic consumption by 60%,
compared with 1996, when the project was commenced. On top of that, the company's losses
are aggravated due to the Government decision #1507. issued on December 31, 1997,
requiring the instaUlation of water meters in the apatments and settlement of bills based on
the readings of individual, not master meters. Local authorities are refuising to adjust the
tariffs for water services, justifying this by residents' inability to pay for water services.
Based on the strategic plan, the utility estimates that the maximal tariff will be reached in year
2003 and it will be 6.43 LtIm'. We anticipate, that the Government will change the decision
(#1507, December 31, 1997), and bills will be based on the readings of the master meters,
thus significanty reducing the utility's losses. We also expect that city Municipality will stick
to all financial commitments to the utility and provide assistance to the utility in repaying part
ofthe loan.
Another problen, which may cause additional difficulties repaying the loan, is pegging of
Lithuanian currency Litas to Euro in February, 2002. Fluctuation of Euro and US dollar may
cause additional financial difficulties for repayment of the loan.
Yours sincerely.
Ricardas Valskis                 .    .s
General director                                              20 -21-12-03
- 24 -



(b) Cqfinanciers:
Sida
2 (2)
200 1-12-06
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY
Address: S-l 05 25 Stockholm, Sweden. Office: Sveavagen 20, Stockholm
Telephone: - 46 (0)8-698 50 00. Telefax: + 46 (0)8-20 88 64.
Telegram: sida stockholm. Postal giro: 1 56 34-9. VAT. No. SE 202100-478901
Sida's Homepage: http:l/www.sida.se
World Bank
Mr. Inesis Kiskis
Vilnius Office
Lithuania
Dear Sir,
Reference is made to your request dated November 29, 2001, regarding evaluation of the
project implementation of the Siauliai Environment Project.
Within the Siauliai Environment Project, Sida grants have been allocated to technical
consultancy assignment, equipment to the new wastewater treatment plant, a twinning
co-operation between a Swedish water and wastewater company and Siauliu Vandenys,
as well as to an Environmental Management Component regarding non-point source
pollution control. The total amount of the Swedish support to Siauliai Environment
Project is approximately MSEK 41,5, out of which almost MSEK 39,5 has been
allocated to wastewater treatment.
Construction of the new WWTP has been heavily delayed, and costs have increased
considerably. Sida has accepted to increase its grant financing by MSEK 10, compared to
the original plan. Even so, the WWTP is still in implementation phase, as to day's date.
Completion is estimated during the end of year 2002.
- 25 -



The reason for the delay in implementation of some components of the project, especially
the WWTP and pumping station, is in our opinion a result of poor co-ordination and
flexibility on the Lithuanian side. Examples of such issues are:
* Difficulties to fulfil financial commitments from central and local authorities. Slow
decision-making.
*   Low flexibility from Lithuanian experts to accept experience from financiers and
other western co-operation partners, which in addition to delays and cost increases
also may result in over dimensioned works and installations.
*   The project implementation could have been more adequate in terms of procurement-
and contracting processes, which have been lengthy and difficult, had the project
management more successfully been able to assume to role as Project Owner and
purchaser.
The model of parallel financing using a mix of loans and grants and having the loan
institution (World Bank) in the lead role has in this case, as in the other Baltic water and
waste water projects, from Sida's point of view made it possible to achieve substantial
positive results in terms of institutional, financial and enviromnental improvements.
Best regards,
Lars Eklund
Head of Environment and Energy Division
Department for Central and Eastern Europe
- 26 -



Ministry of Environment, Finland
Mr. Inesis Kiskis
World Bank
Vilnius Office
Lithuania
Dear Sir,
With reference to your e-mail on 29, Nov. 2001, the Finnish Ministry of the Environment
would firstly like to inform you that it intends to carry out its own an assessment of the
Siauliai Environment Project as soon as the Project is fully completed. In our opinion, the
World Bank should not have discontinued its involvement in the Siauliai Environment
Project before all the originally intended works were accomplished.
Nevertheless, the Finnish Ministry of the Environment would like to share the following
observations:
- As a part of the Project, the Finnish grant financed construction of the main pumping station
which is expected to be handed over to the Client  before end of 2001. The test runs are
planned to commence on 15, December;
- The construction of the main pumping station started and even will be completed well ahead of
the wastewater treatment plant. This might be regarded as a deviation from usual procedure;
- Although Finland was not involved in the debate about the dimensioning of the wastewater
treatment plant and the iron removal plant, we remain concerned about the capacity of the WWTP.
We consider that over dimensioning of the WWTP and the main pumping station is a major
shortcoming of project implementation. The Siauliai Water company should consider measures to
improve operations of the plant with these dimensions;
- Due to various reasons, the original schedules were not always strictly followed, thus contributing
to considerable delays;
- Frequently, the delays were due to complicated permit issuing procedures and associated
bureaucracy, which still prevail in Lithuania;
- 27 -



- One of the major obstacles for smooth project implementation were old norms and standards
which had to be followed. Attempting to modify the norms could be regarded as one of the potential
sectors for the future bilateral/multilateral cooperation with Lithuania;
- Change of the water utility's attitude during the project implementation could be seen as a
remarkable result;
- As a demonstration activity under umbrella of the Siauliai Environment Project, Finland and
Denmark jointly financed the rehabilitation of the  Siauliai sewer network using the "no-dig"
method;
- The Industrial Pollution Management Database which was developed using Finnish grant
assistance, and has been operational in the Siauliai  Regional Environmental Department,
currently undergoes upgrading. Completion of upgrades will mark the end of Finnish involvement in
the      Siauliai Environment Project.
- We would like to recommend that the lessons learnt, in particular as regards dimensioning of
plants were taken into account in developing new  similar projects.
Yours sincerely,
Kristiina Isokallio
Director, Central and East European Cooperation
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
- 28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table I Reliability and Quality of Performance in 1997-2001*
Year                        1997     1998      1999     2000     2001
Water Supply                               _
Number of pipe breaks        135      101      123       98        70
Reliability of coverage 1  0.548    0.4102    0.501    0.507    0.284
Number of complaints
Quality of service '                 117      114       80       64
Technical 3                 304      184       94       64       19
Administrative 4                     483      531      484      204
Other                      1088      734     1424     1586      513
Total            1392     1518     2163     2214       800
Quality of coverage5      0.0111    0.0121   0.0173   0.0182    0.007
Sewerage                                            _
Number of pipe breaks          8       11       22         7        5
Reliability of coverage'  0.0482    0.0627    0.123     0.04    0.029
Number of complaints
Quality of Service 2
Technical 3                1652     1635     1899     1851      773
Administrative 4
Other                      164       467      367      274      130
Total            1816     2102     2266      2125      903
,Quality of coverage'     0.0145    0.0129   0.0181    0.017    0.007
In 2001, data covers January-May
Total number of pipe breaks/length of network in km
Complaints regarding the quality of the water that reached customers
Complaints regarding pressure of water, and disruption of service (no water)
Complaints regarding relations with customers, such as wrong billings
Number of Complaints/population served
- 29 -



Figure 1 Achievement of Financial Indicators by Siauliai Water Company
1 .40
-.0- Working ratio
.      -u- ]   Working ratio -WB
0.80 -                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Target < 0.6
0.60 -                        11 TOperating ratio
0.40 - X   | 11 11     |  | |       |       1     - -- Operating ration -
WB Target< 0.85
1997    1998     1999    2000     2001
Table 2 Drinking Water Quality in Birute Wellfield (the new plant was commissioned in 2000)
2  ~~~~~~~~ ~~z     Z 
YEARS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1997~ ~ ~     ~~~~~~~~~               o **  425 **108  *  .2105 1**|**|**|**|**g**111
2  ~~~~          o~t
Good1 quait       5.-   0 <0.3 87 200  0.1 5.9001 .7 1250 250 1 .10.05 05    0.03
- 30 0-52
1999 7eyoduaiy        -.4 15. 0.58 100  .5  2   3       50250.2 33.
Saisatoyquliy      "   407,7   50. 2,03 6,5I0.10 50. 45  350  0   .0 0032     ,
20001                7.3841  <0.391   0.6270.42.3191.0.2.10020                  .4
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million   US$ million
Project Implementation Unit                          0.51           1.11           2.18
Water Supply                                         3.98           5.82           1.46
Wastewater and Sewerage Rehabilitation               2.17           1.29           0.59
New Wastewater Treatment Plant inld. main PS and rising  7.36      14.40           1.96
main
Technical Assistance and Training                    1.17           1.41           1.21
Regional Environmental Monitoring                    1.13           0.18           0.15
Environmental Protection Activities in the Upper Lielupe  0.22      0.22              1
River basin
Total Baseline Cost                                 16.54          24.43
Physical Contingencies                              1.55           0.00
Price Contingencies                                 4.76           0.00
Total Project Costs             22.85          24.43
Total Financing Required             22.85          24.43
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB          Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     5.31          0.00         0.00         11.71        17.02
(4.67)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (4.67)
2. Goods                      1.48         0.00         0.61          0.00        2.09
(0.42)       (0.00)        (0.53)       (0.00)       (0.95)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.59          1.62        2.21
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.58)       (0.00)       (0.58)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          1.54         1.54
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      6.79         0.00          1.20         14.87       22.86
(5.09)       (0.00)        (1.11)       (0.00)       (6.20)
- 31 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB          Othero         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        5.54          0.00           0.00         12.82         18.36
(4.69)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (4.69)
2. Goods                        1.60           0.00          0.61          0.00         2.21
(0.90)         (0.00)        (0.25)       (0.00)        (1.15)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          0.59          2.52          3.11
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.18)       (0.00)        (0.18)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.75          0.75
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        7.14           0.00          1.20          16.09        24.43
(5.59)         (0.00)        (0.43)        (0.00)        (6.02)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage or A+ppraisal
Component              Appraisal Eslimate          Actual/Latest Estimale   P         or Appraisal
Bank      Goui.     CoF.      Bank      Go%t.     CoF.    Bank   Gov-.  CoF.
Water and Wastewater     6.00      8.00      7.00      5.81      9.72      8.90    96.8   121.5  127.1
Environmental            0.20                1.65      0.20                1.65    100.0         100.0
Management
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The Tables below present calculations of various scenarios for achieving acceptable ERR,
as described in Sections 4 and 6.
Table 1: Economic Analysis - Baseline Scenario (elasticity of demand -0.5).
Investment Net Working OaM Costs O&M Costs Incremental Revenues  Revenues  Incremental Incremental
Cost      Capital  wI Project wlo Project O&M Costs wl Project wlo Project  Revenues  Net Benefits
1000 LTL   1000 LTL  1000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL  1000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL
1996    4,514     -2,380     12,295    10,522      1,773    17,424     13,073      4,351       444
1997    4,196      507       11,947    10,627      1,320    1 7,391    13,073      4,318      -1,705
1998    7,674      489       12,394    10,733      1,661    16,836     13,073      3,763     -6,061
1999   22,990     1 ,564     12,667    10,840      1,827    17,798     13,073      4,725     -21 ,656
2000   15,825     -1,401     12,380     10,948     1,432     16,414    13,073      3,341     -12,515
2001   21,757      771       12,312     11,057     1,255     16,000    13,073      2,927     -20,856
2002   12,500      191       11,931    11,168      763      18,399     13,073      5,326      -8,128
2003      0        263       12,076    11,280      796       20,860    13,073      7,787      6,728
2004      0         0        12,076    11,393      683      20,860     13,073      7,787      7,104
2005      0         0        12,076    11,507      569       20,860    13,073      7,787      7,218
2006      0         0        12,076     11,622     454       20,860    13,073      7,787      7,333
2007      0         0        12,076     11,738     338       20,860    13,073      7,787      7,449
2008      0         0        12,076    11,85S      221      20,860     13,073      7,787      7,566
2009      0         0        12,076    11,974      102      20,860     13,073      7,787      7,685
2010      0         0        12,076    12,094      -18      20,860     13,073      7,787      7,805
2011      0         0        12,076    12,094      -18       20,860    13,073      7,787      7,805
2012      0         0        12,076    12,094      -18       20,860    13,073      7,787      7,805
L20 03    o         0        12,076    12,094      -18      20,860     13,073      7,787      7,805
2014      0         0        12,076    12,094      -18      20,860     13,073      7,787      7,805
2015      0         0        12.P076  1 2.094      -18       20.860    13.073      7.787    7..805
ERR 3.8%
- 33 -



Table 2: Economic Analysis - Scenario 2 (elasticity of demand -0.4)
Investment Net Working OaM Costs O&M Costs Incremental Revenues  Revenues  Incremental Incremental
Cost      Capital  wI Project wlo Project O&M Costs w/ Project wlo Project  Revenues  Net Benefits
1000 LTL   I000 LTL   1000 LTL  I000 LTL   1000 LTL  1000 LTL   I000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL
1996    4,514     -2,380     12,295     105,22     1,773    17,424     13,073      4,351       444
1997    4,196      507       11,947    10,627      1,320    17,391     13,073      4,315     -1,705
1998    7,674      489       12,394    10,733      1,661    16,836     13,073      3,763      -6,061
1999   22,990     1,564      12,667     10,840     1,827    17,798     13,073      4,725     -21,655
2000   15,825     -1,401     12,380     10,948     1,432     16,414    13,073      3,341     -12,515
2001   21,757      771       12,312     11.057     1,255     16,000    13,073      2,927     -20,856
2002   12,500      229       11,921     11,168     753       18,757    13,073      5,684      -7,798
2003      0        316       12,059     11,280     779       21,721    13,073      8,648      7,553
2004      0         0        12,059     11,393     666       21,721    13,073      8,648      7,982
2005      O         0        12,059     11,507     552       21,721    13,073      8,648      8,096
2006      0         0        12,059     11,622     437       21,721    13,073      8,648      8,211
2007      0         0        12,059     11,738     321       21,721    13,073      8,648      8,327
2008      0         0        12,059     11,855     204       21,721    13,073      8,648      8,444
2009      0         0        1 2,059    11,974      85       21,721    13,073      8,648      8,563
2010      0         0        12,059     12,094     -35       21721     13,073      8,648      8,683
2011      0         0        12,059     12,094     -35       21,721    13,073      8,648      8,683
2012      0         0        12,059     12,094     -35       21,721    13,073      8,648      8,683
2013      0         0        12,059     12,094     -35       21,721    13,073      8,648      8,683
2014      0         0        12,059     12,094     -35       21,721    13,073      8,648      8,683
2015      0         0        12,059     12,094     -35       21,721    13,073      8,648 
ERR 5.1%
- 34 -



Table 3: Economic Analysis - Scenario 3 (elasticity of demand -0.25)
Investment Net Working O&M Costs O&M Costs Incremental Revenues  Revenues  Incremental Incremental
Cost      Capital  wI Project wlo Project O&M Costs wI Project wlo Project  Revenues  Net Benefits
1000 LTL  1000 LTL  1000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL  1000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL
1996    4,514     -2,380     12,295    10,522     1,773     17,424     13,073      4,351       444
1997    4,196      507       11,947    10,827     1,320     17,391     13,073      4,318     -1,705
1998    7,674      489       12,394    10,733     1,661     16,838     13,073      3,763     -6,061
1999   22,990     1.564      12,667    10,840     1.827     17,798     13,073      4,725     -21,658
2000   15,825     -1,401     12,380    10,948      1,432     16,414    13,073      3,341     -12,515
2001   21,757      771       12,312    11,057      1,255     16,000    13,073      2,927     -20,858
2002   12,500      286       11,907    11,168      739       19,298    13,073      6,225     -7,300
2003      0        400       12,031    11,280      751       23,057    13,073      9,984      8,833
2004      0         0        12,031    11,393      638       23,057    13,073      9,984      9,346
2006      0         0        12,031    11,507      524       23,057    13,073      9,984      9,460
2006      0         0        12,031     11,622     409       23,057    13,073      9,984      9,575
2007      0         0        12,031    11,738      293       23,057    13,073      9,984      9,691
2008      0         0        12,031    11,855      176       23,057    13,073      9,984      9,808
2009      0         0        12,031    11,974       57       23,057    13,073      9,984      9,927
2010      0         0        12,031    12,094      -63       23,057    13,073      9,984      10,047
2011      0         0        12,031     12,094     -63       23,057    13,073      9,964      10,047
2012      0         0        12,031    12,094      -63       23,057    13,073      9,984      10,047
2013      0         0        12,031    12,094      -63       23,057    13,073      9,984      10,047
2014      0         0        12,031    12,094      -63       23,057    13,073      9,984      10,047
2015      0         0        12,031    12,094      -63       2         13,073      9.984      10,047
ERR 7.1 %
- 35 -



Table 4: Economic Analysis - Scenario 4. (rehabilitation of existing WWTP only).
Investment Net Working OaM Costs O&M Costs Incremental Revenues  Revenues  Incremental Incremental
Cost      Capital  wi Project wlo Project O&M Costs wI Project wlo Project  Revenues  Net Benefits
I000 LTL   1000 LTL  1000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL  1000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL   1000 LTL
1996      0       -2,380     12,295    10,522      1,773    17,424     13,073      4,351      4,958
1997   10,649      507       11,947    10,627     1,320     17,391     13,073      4,318      -8,158
1998   11,848      489       12,394    10,733     1,661     16,836     13,073      3,763     -10,235
1999   25,432     1,564      12,667    10,840     1,827     17,798     13,073      4,725     -24,098
2000    6,434     -1,401     12,380     10,948     1,432    16,414     13,073      3,341     -3,124
2001      0        741       11,703     11,057     646      16,476     13,073      3,403      2,016
2002      0        209       11,707     11,168     539      18,586     13,073      5,513      4,765
2003      0         59       11,717    11,280      437      19,130     13,073      6,057      5,561
2004      0         55       11,728     11,393     335      19,684     13,073      6,611      6,221
2005      0         59       11,738     11,507     231      20,259     13,073      7,186      6,896
2006      o         61       11,747    11,622      125      20,839     13,073      7,766      7,580
2007      0         63       11,757     11,738      19       21,430    13,073      8,357      8,275
2008      0         0        11,757    11,855      -98      21,430     13,073      8,357      8,455
2009      0         0        11,757     11,974     -217     21,430     13,073      8,357      8,574
2010      0         0        11,757     12,094     -337     21,430     13,073      6,357      6,694
2011      0         0        11,757    12,094      -337     21,430     13,073      8,357      8,694
2012      0         0        11,757    12,094      -337     21,430     13,073      8,357      8,694
2013      0         0        11,757    12,094      -337     21,430     13,073      8,357      8,694
2014      0         0        11,757    12,094      -337     21,430     13,073      8,357      8,694
2015      0         o        11t75 7    2.094      -337     21.430     13,073      8.3S7
ERR 11.3%
- 36 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 28 - April            3   Environmental Specialists
3, 1995                     2   Environmental Economists
I   Financial Analyst
I   Operations Analyst
I   Environmental Policy Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 12 - June              3   Environmental Specialists
16, 1995                    2   Environmental Economists
I   Financial Analyst
1   Environmental Policy
I   Analyst
Procurement Specialist
October 16 -                3   Environmental Specialists
October 20, 1995            1   Environmental Economist
I   Disbursement Specialist
I   Legal Counsel
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Loan Analyst
Supervision
February                    2   Environmental Specialists          S             S
13-February 14,             2   Environmental Economists
1996                        1   Financial Specialist
I   Organization and
I   Management Specialist
Procurement Specialist
June 24 - June 25,          2   Environmental Specialists          S             S
1996                        1   Financial Specialist
January 22-January          2   Environmental Specialists          S             S
24, 1997                    1   Financial Specialist
1   Organization and Management
Specialist
I   Operations Analyst
I   Procurement Specialist
September 30 -              2   Environmental Specialists          S             S
October 2, 1997              1  Financial Specialist
1   Organization and Management
Specialist
April 23 - April 27,         1  Environmental Economist            U             S
1998                        3   Environmental Specialists
I   Financial Specialist
I   Organization and Management
Specialist
I   Operations Assistant
- 37 -



November 9 -                 3   Environmental Specialists          S             S
November 11, 1998            1   Financial Specialist
I   Organization and Management
Specialist
I   Operations Analyst
I   Research Assistant
May 9 -May 11,               2   Environmental Specialists          S             S
1999                         1   Financial Specialist
I   Organization and Management
Specialist
I   Operations Analyst
I   Environmental Economist
November 4 -                 2   Environmental Specialists          S             S
November 6, 1999             1   Financial Specialist
I   Organization and Management
Specialist
I   Environmental Economist
May 3 - May 5,               2   Environmental Specialists          S             S
2000                         1   Financial Specialist
I   Organization and Management
Specialist
I   Staff Assistant
October 23-                  2   Environmental Specialists          S             S
October 25, 2000             1   Environmental Economist
I   Financial Specialist
I   Organization and Management
Specialist
ICR
July 16 - July 20,           2    Environmental Specialists          S             S
2001                         1    Environmental Economist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                        110,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                                              18,530
Supervision                                                       153,333
ICR                                                                16,000
Total                                                             297,863
The Table above shows only Bank costs, and does not show the expenditures from Consultant Trust Funds.
- 38 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                      O H  0 SU O M   O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                      OH   * SUOM     ON   O NA
X Physical                             O H  * SU O M   O N  O NA
Z Financial                            O H  O SU * M   O N  O NA
O Institutional Development            0 H  * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
 Environmental                        O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction              OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
Z Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development           0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N  * NA
E Public sector management             0 H  * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 39 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
_ Lending                                           Q HS * S     C U     OHU
Supervision                                      O HS * S     C U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   3 HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS      C    U  Q HU
F2 Government implementation performance            O HS *0S     O U   C HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 C HS O S     0 U   0 HU
E Overall                                           O HS * S     C   U  Q HU
- 40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 41 -






IBRD 27027
To VoiJ-emrpils  RoX.
P;1 1 .     >            Gulf                  1  _                            _          LITHUANIA
.0                      ~~~~~~~OF                                                  SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT
v'qci                             v                                \_-f / ........... ,ga <) PROJECT
T o-tf  _    5                                                 t                   {    _    *  PROJECT SITE
KUA;go                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
-LIELUPE RIVER
WATERSHED BOUNDARY
-     PREVIOUS PROJECT LOCATONS  o-et)
SEECTED MAJOR ROADS
KMdon  0  SELECTED TOWNS
  PROVNCE CAPITALS
 NATIONAL CAPITAL
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
T~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       TrLO~OIOOI0oyOoyOo
L~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I          oooor,.hodo
DbkE i~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.I
T~~~~~~IOI.
V'i- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ aRO 
C) V-ta~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IHAI    5
KILOMEFERS~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPRRRER



