Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3963 LT
Project Agreement
(Siauliai Environment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SIAULIAI WATER
and
MUNICIPALITY OF SIAULIAI
Dated May 8, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3963 LT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
 AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) on the one hand, and SIAULIAI
WATER (SW) and the MUNICIPALITY OF SIAULIAI (MS) on the other hand.
 WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Lithuania (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to six million two
hundred thousand dollars ($6,200,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SW and MS agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
 (B)     by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SW, a portion of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to SW on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
 WHEREAS SW and MS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
 NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
      ARTICLE I
Page  2
     Definitions
 Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "SW
Action Plan" means the plan, agreed with the Bank, dated October 20, 1995,
which sets objectives and implementation actions for all aspects of SW's
activity and organization, including operational, organizational and
financial targets.
     ARTICLE II
      Execution of the Project
         Obligations of MS
 Section 2.01. MS declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Project Agreement, shall cause SW to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of SW herein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SW to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
 Section 2.02. Without limitation upon the generality of the
obligations of MS set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement, MS shall:
 (a)     except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, maintain the
responsibility for setting of water and wastewater tariffs with its
Executive Committee which includes the Mayor, the Vice Mayor and the
six Chairmen of the Standing Committees of the Siauliai City Council;
 (b)     (i) by October 30, 1996, cause SW to carry out a water
and wastewater tariff study in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank with the assistance of consultants satisfactory
to the Bank; (ii) within 30 days of completion of the said study, cause
SW to furnish to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations;
and (iii) by June 30, 1997, implement and cause SW to implement the
recommendations of such study, taking into account the comments and
suggestions received from the Bank;
 (c)     except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, by March 15,
1996, increase the level of water and wastewater tariffs by at least 15%
in real terms, in accordance with methodology acceptable to the Bank; and
 (d)     thereafter and until the recommendations of the tariff
study referred to in paragraph (b) above are implemented, maintain,
through periodic adjustments, an average level of water and wastewater
tariffs at the level required for SW to comply with its obligations under
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
 Section 2.03. (a) MS shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
 (b)     MS shall promptly inform the Bank of any conditions which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement.
 Section 2.04. MS shall exempt SW from payment of income tax
payable to MS on SW's net profits for each fiscal year commencing with
fiscal year 1995 until and including fiscal year 2001.
 Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MS shall
not take any action to cause SW to declare any dividend or make any other
distribution with respect to its share capital prior to December 31, 2001.
    ARTICLE III
Page  3
     Execution of the Project
        Obligations of SW
 Section 3.01. SW declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
 Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
 Section 3.03. (a) SW shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the
Project.
 (b)     For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions,
and without limitation thereto, SW shall:
  (i)     prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable
   to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later
   than six (6) months after the Closing Date or
   such later date as may be agreed for this
   purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
   plan for the future operation of Part A of the
   Project; and
  (ii)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
   exchange views with the Borrower and SW on
   said plan.
 Section 3.04. SW shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SW shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
 Section 3.05. (a) SW shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan.
 (b)     SW shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by SW of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
 Section 3.06. During execution of the Project, SW shall maintain
the PIU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and
with staff, in adequate numbers, with qualifications and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
    ARTICLE IV
       Financial Covenants
 Section 4.01. (a) SW shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
 (b)     SW shall:
Page  4
  (i)     have its records, accounts and financial
   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
   and expenses and funds flow statements) for each
   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
   appropriate auditing principles consistently
   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
   the Bank;
  (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
   any case not later than six months after the end
   of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
   financial statements for such year as so audited;
   and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
   of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
   have reasonably requested; and
  (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
   concerning said records, accounts and financial
   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
 Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SW
shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1995, a ratio of total operating expenses to
total operating revenues not higher than 85%.
 (b)     Before May 1 in each of its fiscal years, SW shall, on
the basis of forecasts prepared by SW and satisfactory to the Bank,
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)
in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall
furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
 (c)     If any such review shows that SW would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for SW's fiscal years covered
by such review, SW shall promptly take all necessary measures (including,
without limitation, cost reductions and actions specified in Section
4.04 (b) relating to the structure and adjustment of tariffs) in order
to meet such requirements.
 (d)     For the purposes of this Section:
  (i)     The term "total operating expenses" means all
   expenses related to operations, including
   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
   payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
   depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
   of not less than 5% per annum of the average
   current gross value of SW's fixed assets in
   operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank,
   but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
  (ii)    The term "total operating revenues" means
   revenues from all sources related to operations.
  (iii)   The average current gross value of SW's fixed
   assets in operation shall be calculated as one
   half of the sum of the gross value of SW and
   MS's fixed assets in operation at the beginning
   and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued
   from time to time in accordance with sound and
   consistently maintained methods of valuation
   satisfactory to the Bank.
 Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SW
shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of SW for the fiscal
year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated
maximum debt service requirements of SW for any succeeding fiscal year
on all debt of SW, including the debt to be incurred.
Page  5
 (b)     For the purposes of this Section:
  (i)     The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SW
   maturing by its terms more than one year after
   the date on which it is originally incurred.
  (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
   a loan contract or agreement or other instrument
   providing for such debt or for the modification
   of its terms of payment on the date of such
   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
   providing for such guarantee has been entered
   into.
  (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
   between:
   (A)     the sum of revenues from all sources
   related to operations adjusted to take account
   of SW's rates in effect at the time of the
   incurrence of debt even though they were not in
   effect during the twelve-month period to which
   such revenues relate and net non-operating
   income; and
   (B)     the sum of all expenses related to
   operations including administration, adequate
   maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
   taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation,
   other non-cash operating charges and interest
   and other charges on debt.
  (iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
   difference between:
   (A)     revenues from all sources other than
   those related to operations; and
   (B)     expenses, including taxes and payments
   in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
   revenues in (A) above.
  (v)     The term "debt service requirements" means the
   aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
   fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
   charges on, debt.
  (vi)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it
   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
   currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
   currency, such valuation shall be made on the
   basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
   at which such other currency is, at the time of
   such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
   servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
   rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
   acceptable to the Bank.
 Section 4.04. (a) (i) By October 30, 1996, carry out a water and
wastewater tariff study in accordance with terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank with the assistance of consultants satisfactory to the Bank,
(ii) within 30 days of completion of the said study, furnish to the Bank
a copy of its findings and recommendations and (iii) by June 30, 1997,
take all action required to implement the recommendations of such study
taking into account the comments and suggestions received from the Bank;
 (b)     SW shall (i) by March 15, 1996, take all action required
on its part to increase its tariffs in accordance with Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement and (ii) thereafter, and until the recommendations of
the study referred to in paragraph (a) above are implemented, take all
action required on its part to ensure that its tariffs shall be
Page  6
periodically adjusted so as to be maintained at the level required for
SW to achieve the financial covenant set forth in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement.
 Section  4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SW shall
not declare any dividend or make any other distribution with respect to
its share capital, prior to December 31, 2001.
     ARTICLE V
         Management and Operations of SW
 Section 5.01. (a) SW shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, utility
and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
 (b)     SW shall not implement any substantial management,
structural or operational changes without prior approval of the Bank.
 (c)     SW shall duly implement the SW Action Plan in accordance
with the timetable included in the said plan.
 Section 5.02. SW shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and water and wastewater
management practices.
 Section 5.03. SW shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
          ARTICLE VI
        Effective Date; Termination;
        Cancellation and Suspension
 Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
 Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of SW and MS thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify SW and MS thereof.
 Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
          ARTICLE VII
   Miscellaneous Provisions
 Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
 For the Bank:
  International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
  1818 H Street, N.W.
  Washington, D.C. 20433
  United States of America
Page  7
  Cable address:                  Telex:
   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
       64145 (WUI) or
      197688 (TRT)
 For SW:
  Vytauto 103
  5400 Siauliai
  Republic of Lithuania
 For MS:
  Vasario 16-os 62
  Siauliai 5400
  Republic of Lithuania
 Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of SW and MS, respectively, or by SW and MS on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by on behalf
of SW by the General Director or such other person or persons as the
General Director shall designate in writing, and on behalf of MS by the
Mayor or such other person or persons as the Mayor shall designate in
writing, and SW and MS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
 Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
    By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
         Acting Regional Vice President
         Europe and Central Asia
    SIAULIAI WATER
    By /s/ Alfonsas Eidintas
       Authorized Representative
    MUNICIPALITY OF SIAULIAI
    By /s/ Alfonsas Eidintas
        Authorized Representative
          SCHEDULE 1
      Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  8
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
 Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.      International Shopping
 Goods estimated to cost $260,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.      National Shopping
 Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $85,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
3.      National Competitive Bidding
 Works estimated to cost $120,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
4.      Direct Contracting
 Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to
be compatible with existing equipment and costing $100,000 equivalent
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.      Procurement Planning
 Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval,
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.      Prior Review
 With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
 Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Page  9
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
