LOAN NUMBER 3963 LT
Loan Agreement
(Siauliai Environment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                  ,1996


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3963 LT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                       , 1996, between
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Sweden a grant
(the Swedish Grant) in an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swedish Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Government of Sweden;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Finland a grant
(the Finnish Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,700,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Finnish Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Government of Finland;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Norway a grant
(the Norwegian Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Norwegian Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Government of Norway;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from other donor sources a grant or grants
(the Additional Grant) in an aggregate amrount equivalent to $850,000 to assist in
financing Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in an
agreement or agreements (the Additional Grant Agreements) to be entered into between
the Borrower and additional donors;
(F) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Siauliai Water (SW) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to SW a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, SW
and the Municipality of Siauliai;


﻿-2-
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank, Siauliai
Water, and Municipality of Siauliai of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
(b)    "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SW pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)(i) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, ar 3 such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(d)    "Siauliai Water" or "SW" means the municipal joint stock company re-
organized pursuant to Decree No. 787 of the Borrower's Government, entitled
"Reorganization of state-owned enterprises into open and closed joint-stock companies,"
dated August 26, 1994 as the same may be amended from time to time, and registered
with the Siauliai Town Board on March 13, 1995;
(e)    "SW  Statutes" means the founding statutes, charter, articles of
incorporation and by-laws or other similar instrument of SW registered by SW with the
Siauliai Municipality Executive Board on March 13, 1995;
(f)    "Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the unit established
within SW and referred to in Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement and Section 3.06 of the
Project Agreement;


﻿-3-
(g)    "MEP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environmental Protection or
any successors thereto;
(h)    "Lielupe River Basin Commission" means the joint commission of the
Ministry of Environment and Regional Development of Latvia and the Ministry of
Environmental Protection of Lithuania, established pursuant to an agreement on
Environmental Management of the Lielupe River Basin, concluded in May 1993;
(i)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 20,
1995, and December 4, 1995, between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(j)    "Implementation Program for Part B of the Project" means the program
acceptable to the Bank to be adopted by the Borrower and referred to in Section 3.01
(a)(i) of this Agreement, which sets the organizational structure, financial plan and
timetable for implementation of various activities under Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to six million
two hundred thousand Dollars ($6,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable
to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn


﻿-4-
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. SW is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect of
Part A of the Project for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)     shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and environmental practices and in accordance with
the Implementation Program for Part B of the Project and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for such Part of the Project; and
(ii)    without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause SW and MS to perform all their respective obligations
set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be


﻿-5-
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
SW and MS to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)    For the purposes of Part A of the Project the Borrower shall:
(i)     relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Categories (1) and (2) of the table in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement to SW under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SW, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and
which shall include, inter alia, (i) maturity of 10 years, with a
4-year grace period; (ii) an interest rate equal to the Loan rate
as specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (iii)
denomination in Dollars; and
(ii)    exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out
of the pvoceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating


﻿-6-
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project shall
be carried out by SW pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnisk to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
f:om time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal.
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-7-
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    SW or MS shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that SW or MS will be able to perform its respective obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)    SW Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SW to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)    The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SW or for the suspension of its
operations.
(e)    The Additional Grant shall have failed to become effective by June 30,
1997, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
that adequate funds for Part B of the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(f)    (i)     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:


﻿-8-
(A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)    any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)    any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f) (i) (B) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of sub-paragraph (e) and sub-paragraph (f)
(ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a)    the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and SW;
(b)    the PIU  has been established within SW    with   functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, with staff that shall include a director, an
accountant and an English-speaking assistant, whose qualifications and terms of


﻿-9-
reference are acceptable to the Bank and a consultant to the PIU, providing project
management and procurement advice, whose qualifications and terms of reference are
acceptable to the Bank;
(c)    the Supervisory Board of SW, with composition and functions
acceptable to the Bank, has been createe and SW Statutes have been amended in
accordance with the applicable laws of the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank to reflect the creation of such Supervisory Board;
(d)    an agreement for twinning arrangement between SW and a foreign water
and wastewater utility, acceptable to the Bank, has been executed on behalf of SW and
such utility under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and
(e)    all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Swedish Grant
Agreement, the Finnish Grant Agreement and the Norwegian Grant Agreement have
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)    that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SW
and MS, and is legally binding in accordance with its terms; and
(b)    that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by the Borrower and SW and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SW in
accordance with its terms.
*     Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister
of Finance of the* Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-10-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sermuksniy 6
2696 Vilnius
Republic of Lithuania
Telex:
261252 FIMA SU
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-11-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
By     /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                        Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of th.             % of
Loan Allocated         Ependitures
(Expressed in            to be
Category                      Dollars)             Financed
(1)    Goods and works
under Part A               5,529,000
of the Project
(a) Goods                                       100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(b) Works                                       100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)    Consultants'                221,000             100%
services and training
under Part A of the
Project


﻿-13-
Amount of the             % of
Loan Allocated         Expenditures
(Expressed in            to be
CategoD ollars)                                    Financed
(3)    Goods under Part B           150,000            100% of foreign
of the Project                                  expenditures, 100%
of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(4)    Consultants' services         50,000            100%
under Part B of the
Project
(5)    Refunding of Project         250,000           Amounts due
Preparation Advance                             pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
TOTAL                      6,200,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-14-
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) goods and works under
contracts not exceeding $260,000 equivalent, and (ii) services under contracts not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for individual
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to (a) reduce the pollution load from the
Siauliai area into the Upper Lielupe River Basin; (b) improve the quality, reliability, and
cost efficiency of water supply and wastewater services in the Municipality of Siauliai;
(c) establish a financially sustainable provision of municipal services; and (d) improve
the regional and local environmental quality monitoring programs and enforcement
systems in the Upper Lielupe River Basin.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Water and Wastewater Improvement
1.     Rehabilitation and improvement of water supply and distribution system in
Siauliai through:
(i)    construction of an iron removal plant at the existing Birute groundwater
well field;
(ii)   renewal of pumps requiring high maintenance and supply of critical
spare parts; and
(iii)  carrying out of a leak detection and control program.
2.     Rehabilitation and improvement of wastewater collection and treatment system
in Siauliai through:
(i)    rehabilitation of the sewerage system to reduce infiltration and leakage;
(ii)   rehabilitation of pumping stations requiring high maintenance including
provision of energy efficient equipment;
(iii)  rehabilitation of the existing Siauliai wastewater treatment plant to allow
operations during the construction of the new wastewater treatment
plant; and
(iv)   completion of the new wastewater treatment plant in Siauliai, including
main pumping station, screens, grit removal, primary sedimentation,


﻿-16-
aeration, phosphorus removal, final sedimentation, and sludge
dewatering.
3.     Provision of technical assistance and training for:
(i)    preparation of a tariff study for SW;
(ii)   supporting the PIU; and
(iii)  institutional strengthening and training for SW through a twinning
arrangement.
Part B: Fnvironmental Management
1.     Direct support for the Lithuanian side of the Lielupe River Basin Commission
through provision of environmental monitoring stations, training, technical assistance,
equipment and software and a twinning arrangement with a foreign river basin
management organization.
2.     Support for environmental protection activities in the Upper Lielupe River
Basin, including technical assistance, training, monitoring and laboratory equipment;
implementation of a management plan and procedures to restrict the discharge of
industrial wastewaters; preparation of an evaluation of old and current sludge disposal
sites and development of a plan to improve sludge management; provision of technical
assistance and equipment for selected demonstration activities for cost effective
approaches for pollution control at small point sources, and improved methods for
agricultural run-off control.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.     General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such
Interest Period.
(b)    "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest Payment date to,
but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)    "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
(d)    "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of
the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is
withdrawn.
B. Interest
1.     The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its
Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.     (a)    From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed
Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)     LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)    LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)    From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final
repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the
applicable:
(i)     Fixed Base Rate; plus


﻿-18-
(ii)    Fixed Total Spread.
3.     For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the
following meanings:
(a)    "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest
Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day
of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
(b)    "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)    one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)   minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
by it that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)    "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of
the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposit in Dollars for value on the Rate
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
(d)    "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)    one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)   minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or


﻿-19-
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount;
plus
(iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably detennined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.     The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread,
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly
upon the determination thereof.
5.     Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest
of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may
modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not
yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.     Repayment
1.     Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each May
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th)
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and
the last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said
paragraph 1, be payable after May 15, 2011, the Borrower shall also pay on said date the
aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.     After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
PatA: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B: Procurement Procedures
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and $150,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part LC Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in


﻿-21-
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, otiier standard
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.


﻿-22-
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A. 1(i), (ii) and (iii), A.3(ii) and
B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.


﻿-23-
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding. the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of ihis Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts A and B of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Parts A and B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿-24-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A and B of the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
(b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


