                                    Documentof
                                The WorldBank


                                                       Report No.: 38472




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                       INDIA

               INDUSTRIAL POLLUTIONCONTROLPROJECT
                     (LOAN 3334-IN AND CREDIT 2252-IN)

                                        AND

             INDUSTRIAL POLLUTIONPREVENTIONPROJECT
                  (LOAN 3779 & 3780-INAND CREDIT2645-IN)




                                 January 25,2007




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
IndependentEvaluation Group (WorldBank)

Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (INR)

2003 (Feb)                 US$l.oo                Rs. 45.5
2004 (Feb)                 US$1.oo                Rs. 45.O
2005 (Feb)                 US$ 1.oo
                           US$1.oo                Rs. 43.4
2006 (Feb)                                        Rs. 44.0


AbbreviationsandAcronyms

ADB               Asian Development Bank
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CETPs             Common EffluentTreatment Plants
CII               Confederation of IndianIndustry
CNG               Compressednatural gas
CPCB              Central PollutionControl Board
CSE               Centre for Science and Environment
DOES              StateDepartmentsof Environment
EAP               Environment Action Program
ERRS              Economic rates of return
GIS               Geographic informationsystem
GO1               Government of India
ICICI             Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India,Limited
                  (later ICICIBank Limited)
ICR               ImplementationCompletion Report
IDBI ,            Industrial Development Bank of India, Limited
IEG               IndependentEvaluation Group
IEGWB             IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)
IPCP              Industrial PollutionControl Project
IPPP              Industrial PollutionPrevention Project
IRRs              Internal rates of return
IWRPs             Industrial Water RecyclingPlants
MIS               Management informationsystems
MOEF              Ministry of Environment and Forests
MTR               Mid-Term Review
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PSAP             Policy Statement for Abatement of Pollution
SPCBs             State Pollution Control Boards
UNCED            UNConference onEnvironment andDevelopment
WMCs             Waste Minimization Circles


FiscalYear

Government:               April 1-March31




Director-General, Evaluation                              : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent EvaluationGroup (World Bank)        : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and GlobalEvaluationDivision   : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                              : Mr.JohnRedwood

                                                            1




 IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectiveness through excellenceand independence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The Independent EvaluationGroupassesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two purposes:
first,to ensurethe integrity of the Bank's self-evaluationprocessandto verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results,and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthroughthe
disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As partof this work, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preference is givento those that are
innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studiesor country evaluations; those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments; and those that are likelyto generate
important lessons.The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selectedfor assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conductedby IEGWB. To prepare
PPARs, IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other documents, interview operationalstaff, and in mostcases
visit the borrowingcountryfor onsite discussions with projectstaffand beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validateand augment the informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issuesof specialinterestto broader
IEGWBstudies.
      Each PPAR is subjectto a peer review processand IEGWBmanagementapproval.Once clearedinternally,
the PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary.The completedPPAR is
then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attachedto the documentthat is sent to the
Bank's Boardof Executive Directors. After an assessment report has beensent to the Board, it is disclosedto the
public.


About the IEGWB Rating System
      The time-testedevaluationmethods usedby IEGWBare suited to the broad rangeof the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument,projectdesign, or
sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following
is the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion (more information is availableon the IEGWB
website: http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to whichthe project's objectives are consistentwith the country's
current development prioritiesand with current Bank countryand sectoralassistance strategiesand corporate
goals (expressedin Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies).Possible ratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extentto which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expectedto be achieved,taking into
account their relativeimportance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved,or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
opportunitycost of capitaland benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally appliedto adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the abilityof a countryor region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human,financial,and naturalresourcesthrough: (a)
better definition, stability,transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsandor (b)
better alignment of the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandate, which derivesfrom these
institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impactincludes both intended and unintendedeffects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supportedimplementation through appropriatesupervision(includingensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regularoperation of the project). Possible ratings:Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
qualityof preparation and implementation, and compliedwith covenants and agreements, towardsthe
achievement of development objectives and sustainability.Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                       111



Contents

Principal Ratings          ...............................................................................................................        v

Key Staff Responsible              ........................................................................................................       v

Preface   .............................................................................................................................          ..
                                                                                                                                                vi1


Summary      ...........................................................................................................................         ix

1.      Background            ............................................................................................................        1

2.      ProjectDesign. Implementation and Results                                         ...................................................... 4
        Project Design..........................................................................................................                 4
        Project Implementation and Results........................................................................                                8

3.      Evaluation Findings                 .............................................................................................       10
        Relevance...............................................................................................................                 10
        Efficacy (Achievement of Objectives) ..................................................................                                  12
        Efficiency...............................................................................................................               14
        InstitutionalDevelopment Impact .........................................................................                                15
        Sustainability .........................................................................................................                16
        Outcome................................................................................................................. 18
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                      18
        Borrower Performance...........................................................................................                         19

4.      Lessons      ..................................................................................................................         20

Annex A BasicData Sheet
           .                               ..............................................................................................       25

Annex B Project FinancingArrangements
           .                                                              ..................................................................    33




This report was preparedby John Redwood. who assessed the projectsinApril-May 2006.The report was
editedby WilliamHurlbut. and Soon-WonPakprovided administrative support                                        .


                                               V



PrincipalRatings

                                                                        ~~


                              ICR*                 ICR Review*                    PPAR
India Industrial Pollution ControlProject (Loan3334-IN and Credit2252-IN)
Outcome              Unsatisfactory           Marginally                  Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory

InstitutionalDev.    Partial                  Modest                      Modest

Sustainability       Unlikely                 Uncertain                   Likely
Bank                 Deficient                Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Performance
Borrower             Deficient                Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Performance
India Industrial Pollution PreventionProject (Loan 3779 & 3780-IN and Credit 2645-IN)
                                     -
                                                                                           _I_


Outcome              Unsatisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory Moderately
                                                                          Unsatisfactory
InstitutionalDev     Substantial              Substantial                 Substantial
Sustainability       Likely                   Likely                      Likely
Bank                 Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Performance
Borrower             Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Performance
                                               - -
* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational
divisionof the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediateIEGWB product that seeks to
independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

Project                               Task             Division Chief/            Country
                               Manager/Leader          Sector Director            Director
India IndustrialPollution ControlProject (Loan3334-IN and Credit 2252-IN)
Appraisal                        W. Vergara               M. Gould                H. Vergin
Completion                     N. Hadjitarkhani        R. Ackermann                E. Lim
India Industrial Pollution PreventionProject (Loan 3779 & 3780-IN and Credit2645-IN)
                               -
Appraisal                        W. Vergara         J. Khalilzadeh-Shirazi        H. Vergin
Completion                        B. Onursal             J. S. Racki              M. Carter


                                             vii


Preface

        This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) for the Industrial
PollutionControl and IndustrialPollutionPrevention Projects (IPCP and IPPP,
respectively) in India. These two closely linked operations constituted a major line of
Bank assistanceto the Government of India(GOI) inresponse to one of its declared
priority areas for improved environmental management during the 1990s.

        IPCPwas approved on May 30,1991 with an IBRDloan (Ln. 3334-IN) of US$
 124millionand an IDA credit (Cr. 2252-IN) inthe amount of US$31.6 million. Both
the loan and the credit were closed on March 31, 1999, after a nine month extension of
the original closing date. US$7.5 million was canceled from the loan and US$6.6
million from the credit.

        IPPPwas approved on July 26, 1994with two IBRDloans totalingUS$ 143
million-Ln. 3779-IN for US$93 million to the IndustrialDevelopment Bank of India,
Limited (IDBI) and Ln. 3880-IN for US$50 million to the ICICIBank Limited (formerly
IndustrialCredit and Investment Corporation of India; hereafter ICICI) - and an IDA
credit (Cr. 2645-IN) of US$25 million to GOI. The loan to IDBIwas closed inMarch
31, 2001with cancellation o f US$66.7 million and that to ICICIwas closed on
November 30, 2002 after two extensions for a total of 20 months and cancellation of US$
10.5 million. The credit was also closed on November 30, 2002 after an extension of 8
months with cancellation of SDR 6.7 million. The cancellations were partly due to
significant devaluation of the Rupee inrelationto the dollar duringthe 1990s.

        This report is basedon a review of project documents, including Implementation
CompletionReports, Staff Appraisal Reports, Memoranda to the President, legal
documents and project files, and on discussions with Bank staff involved in the projects
both inWashington and New Delhi. An IEGmission visited IndiainApril-May 2006,
includingfour of the states that directly benefited under the two operations (Karnataka,
Maharasthra, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu), and met with government officials and others
familiar with project implementation and related pollution management issues in the
Ministry of Environment andForests (MOEF),the CentralPollutionControl Board
(CPCB), the respective State Departments of Environment (DOES)and State Pollution
ControlBoards (SPCBs), ICICI and IDBI, as well as with the Confederation of Indian
Industry (CII), the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Centre for Science and
Environment (CSE), a renowned national environmental NGO. We gratefully
acknowledge the courtesies and attention received from all these interlocutors together
with the excellent logistical support providedby the visiting missions unit and other staff
inthe Bank's country office inNew Delhi.

       Following standard IEGprocedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to the
Borrowers (GOI, ICICI and IDBI)for comments, but none were received.


                                               ix


 Summary

         The India IndustrialPollutionControl and IndustrialPollutionPrevention Projects
(IPCP and IPPP) were approved on May 30, 1991 and July 26, 1994respectively, and
 supported with three Bank loans (3334-INY3799-IN and 3780-IN) and two IDA credits
 (2252-IN and 2645-IN) involving total commitments of US$323.6 million. The projects,
whose designs were nearly identical, sought to support GOI's efforts to prevent and
alleviate environmental degradation from industrial activities and help it meet its short
and medium-termenvironmental policy targets (IPCP), and promote cost-effective
pollution abatement from industrialsources (IPPP), respectively.

         Eachproject hadthree components: (i)     institutional development of selected State
Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) to strengthen government enforcement capacity in
those states possessing the highest concentrations of pollutingindustries; (ii)  investment
inpollution controllprevention equipment andtechnologies byindividualindustries in
targeted subsectors financed inpart through dedicated credit lines managedby two
importantdomestic financialintermediaries; and (iii)     technical assistanceto the Ministry
of Environment and Forests and participatingfinancial intermediaries.

         The main difference between the two projects was IPPP's more explicit focus on
pollution prevention, waste minimization, and resource recovery, as compared with more
traditional "end-of-pipe" industrialpollution control approaches under IPCP. The credit
lines under both operations were targeted on larger industrial establishments, and both
projects sought to implement Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) for smaller
industries, and demonstration projects to pilot new techniques. Inaddition, IPPP sought
to finance Industrial Water Recycling Plants (IwRPs), establish a Clean Technology
InstitutionalNetwork, and create Waste Minimization Circles (WMCs).

         The outcome of bothprojects i s rated moderately unsatisfactory inthat their
objectives were only partially achieved and with significant shortcomings. The projects
were, nevertheless, substantially relevant bothinterms of GO1environmental priorities
and Bank Country Assistance Strategies. Bothprojects didcontribute to pollution
abatement and prevention insome key industrialestablishments, as well as to building
institutional capacity at the state level. IPCP's performance was superior to that of IPPP
on the investment component, while that of IPPPwas relatively stronger in terms of
capacity building. However, in both cases there were major shortfalls both in terms of
credit line performance and institutional development. The overall ratings in terms of
institutional development impact were modest for IPCPand substantial for IPPP. Onthe
whole, sustainability of the economic, environmental, and institutional benefits associated
with bothoperations i s likely as the individual industries have a financial incentive to
maintain resource saving and waste minimizationtechnologies and SPCBs have recently
been bolstered by increasing civil society, judicial, and mediaproactivity regarding
pollution abatement.

        On the less positive side, there were implementationdelays with the institutional
strengthening and technical assistance components, one of the credit lines under IPPP
was underutilized, the quality and sustainability of many CETPs and demonstration

                                               X



projects are questionable, better use could have beenmade of technical assistance
resources, and inter-institutional coordination could have been stronger. More generally,
Bank experience inIndia, Brazil and elsewhere has revealed that special industrial credit
lines are not the most effective way of achieving improvements in air and water quality.

         On balance, Bank and the Borrower performance are rated unsatisfactory, even
though there was considerable improvement on the part of bothfollowing the mid-term
review of IPPP. Many of the shortcomings mentioned above could have been avoided
had the Bank supervised IPCP more carefully from the beginning and sought to correct
its initial design flaws early on.

         Several lessons can be derived from this experience bothwith regard to pollution
management and to project quality and development effectiveness more generally:

                 These efforts should havebeen part of more comprehensive localpollution
                 abatement strategies, involvingthe full range of contributing sectors and
                 sources and suitable actions to address the entire set of air, water and land
                 degradation problems ina spatially more focused way.

                Bank environmental projects should have explicit environmental quality
                objectives that can be readily monitored and evaluated.

                Bank projects seeking to improve the environment, whether ina single
                 sector such as industry or more generally, shoulduse all available means,
                including public disclosure, to achieve this objective.

                The Bank should not go forward with new projects that attempt to extend
                and/or replicate previously untested design approaches ifthere has been
                insufficient opportunityto monitor, evaluate, and learn from the first
                operation. Adequate monitoring and evaluation are particularly important
                insuch situations.

                Inprojectextensiondecisions, development effectiveness shouldtake
                precedence over internalBank portfolio housekeeping concerns.

         Despite the significant shortcomings of the two projects under review, the PPAR
mission found that Bank support for pollution management through the projects assessed
was appreciated by the IndianGovernment, private industry, and civil society, at both the
national and state levels, and further assistanceinthis area i s welcomed. Given its
continuing relevance in a context of rapid urbanization, industrialization, and economic
growth, improvedpollution management should remain a key focus of Bank
environmental support to Indiainthe years ahead.




                                                                     Vinod Thomas
                                                                    Director-General
                                                                       Evaluation

                                                       1


 1.Background

 1.1      Addressing industrialpollution is one of the seven priority areas identifiedby the
 Government of India (GOI) in its Environment Action Program ( E M ) , issued by the
Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) inDecember 1993. The EAP highlighted
 the needto control industrialpollution "with emphasis on the reductionand management
 of wastes, particularly hazardous wastes." A second priority was increased access to
 clean technologies, with the associated objective of pollution prevention. A third referred
to improvedmanagement of urban environmental problems more generally, especially air
 and water pollution from non-industrial sources and municipal solid waste collection and
disposal.'

 1.2     These priorities were pickedup inthe Bank's subsequent assessment of the EAP,
issued inJanuary 1996. This report observed that, between 1963 and 1991, industrial
output in Indiahadquadrupled, growing at an annual average rate of about 5.5 percent.
The greatest expansion occurred in the garment, petroleum, chemical, beverage and
ferrous and non-ferrous metals subsectors. Toxic releases from industrial sources,
includingheavy metals, cyanides and pesticides, however, increased sixfold over this
period. These were highly concentrated in certain subsectors, with chemical and iron and
steel producers contributingclose to 70 percent (as compared with 20 percent of total
industrialoutput). MOEFestimated that roughly one-third of all water pollution inthe
country came from industrial sources.2

 1.3     Based on an examination of the interaction between industry and the environment,
the report highlights three major issues - industrial pollution, chemical accidents and
occupational health - and mentions Bank efforts to help India address the first of these
through the two projects which are the object of the present assessment. It observed that
"though environmental management in Indiahas improved significantly inthe past
several years, institutions are still weak, and the policy and implementation framework
needs strengthening." As a result, further Bank assistancewas required, starting with
efforts to "refine and expand current efforts at pollution abatement" and "develop
assistance in other areas of industrial environmental management." It also recommends
that the Bank "help the government in...developing an area-based approach to pollution
abatement [which] focuses the efforts and resources of enforcement agencies on targeted
reductions of pollution and covers all sources of p~llution."~Unfortunately, however, the


1. The other key priorities identified inthe EAP were: conservation and sustainableutilizationof
biodiversity in selected ecosystems; afforestation, wasteland development, conservation of soil and
moisture, prevention of ground and surface water pollution (in rural areas); development of an alternative
energy plan; and, scientific understanding of environmental issues, training, creation of environmental
awareness, and resourceassessment.
2. World Bank, India's Environment- TakingStock of Plans, Programsand Priorities: An Assessment of
the EnvironmentAction Program, India, Nepal and Bhutan Country Department, January 1996, pp. 138-
139.
3. Ibid.,pp. 146-147. With respectto the improved enforcement in some of the more industrializedstates,
the report notes that "this improvement i s limitedto non-toxic air and water pollution from large and
medium-sized private industrial units. Regulations for public unitsare poorly enforced due to political

                                                       2


 Bank didnot follow up on this recommendation, suggesting a possible "disconnect"
 between staff carrying our analytical work and those preparing lendingoperations for
 pollutionabatement.

  1.4     Well before the 1990s, GO1demonstrated its concern with pollution problems
 throughpioneering legislation. This includedthe Water (Prevention and Controlof
 Pollution) Act of 1974, passedfollowing the first UnitedNations Conference on the
 Environment inStockholm in 1972, the Water Cess Act of 1977, and the Air (Prevention
 and Control of Pollution) Act o f 1981. A broader Environment (Protection) Act was
 promulgated in 1986, inresponse to the industrial tragedy inBhopal, providing an
 umbrellastructure for Indianenvironmental legislation and empowering the central
 government to take the measures necessary to improve environmental quality and control
 pollution from all sources. This act also gave government the capacity to prohibitor
 restrict the locationor operation of industrial activities on environmental grounds and
 established comprehensive minimumnationaldischarge standards for particular types of
 industrial operations4which the states were also required to apply (and could further
 tighten at their discretion). Additional rules were established under the Environment Act
 in 1989to address hazardous waste collectionand disposal, which, as central and state
 environmental authorities repeatedly informed the PPAR mission, continue to be a major
 concern in much of the c o ~ n t r y . ~

 1.5      The basic institutional arrangements for environmental management at the
 nationaland subnational levels were also established under this legislation, including the
 Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) and the Central Pollution Control Board
 (CPCB), together with EnvironmentDepartments6and Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs)
 ineach of the states. The PollutionControlBoards, which were set up under the 1974
 Water Act, were given authority to inspect and place conditions onthe operation of
 industrial facilities, set water quality and effluent standards, and permit or prohibit the
 discharge of liquid and solid wastes into water bodies. The Boards were also empowered
 to monitor and enforce compliance with legalrequirements. The Air Act added

                                            ~~        ~                ~~




interference inthe functions of the state boards. Inaddition, the boards cannot deal with the large number
of small-scale units [and] lack the capacity to monitor and enforce regulations related to hazardous waste."
4. Industrial subsectors of particular concern were chemicals and petrochemicals, textiles, tanneries,
pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, pulpand paper, sugar, and pesticides.
5. The lone exception among the states visited was Maharashtra, where an industrial hazardous waste
disposal facility is already inplace. According to a recent Bank document, the current estimate of
hazardous waste generatedinIndia is about 4.4 million tons a year, of which 1.4 million tons i s recyclable,
100,000 tons canbe incinerated and 2.9 milliontons mustbe disposedof by other means. This total i s
expected to increase with continued rapid industrial expansion, while bothits location and future growth
will be concentratedina small number of rapidly industrializing states. See Project Concept Note (PCN)
for the proposed India Capacity Buildingfor Industrial Pollution Management Project, Environmentand
Social Development Unit,South Asia Region(SASES), February 10,2006, pg. 2.
6. In some states, suchas Maharashtra andTamil Nadu, these Departments focus primarily on pollution
management(Le., "brown" environmental issues), while in others, such as Karnataka, they also cover
forests and ecological concerns (or "green" environmental issues). Where the focus i s mainly on pollution
issues, the states normally have separate Departments of Forests, and most states, including Karnataka,
have separate Departments for Water ResourceManagement. Intheory, actions related to environmental
managementat the state level are coordinated across these different government agencies.

                                                      3


responsibility for protection of air quality and gave the Boards authority to establish
emission standards for airborne pollutants together with ambient air quality standards and
associatedmonitoring and enforcement procedures.

 1.6     At the time of the UNConference onEnvironmentand Development (UNCED)
inRio de Janeiro in 1992and with Bank technical support, GO1issued aPolicy
Statement for Abatement of Pollution(PSAP) with the stated intentionof better
integrating environmental and economic aspects indevelopment planning. By stressing
preventive aspects of pollution abatement, this policy represented a significant change in
India's approach to environmental regulation. It also providedthe policy backdrop for
IPPPwhose Staff AppraisalReport (SAR) includedit as an annex. Specific measures
associatedwith PSAP were: preventing pollutionat its source; encouraging, developing
and applying the best available technological solutions as part of the productionprocess;
ensuring that polluters paidfor pollution prevention and control arrangements; focusing
protection on heavily polluted air- (mainly inthe largest cities such as Delhi and
Mumbai) and watersheds; involving the public indecision making; and increasing the
safety of industrialoperations. The main thrust of PSAP, however, was to shift the focus
of government action from installationof "end-of-pipe" (or end-of-stack) controls to
encouraging industrial pollution prevention through adoption of waste minimization,
resource recovery and cleaner productiontechnologies that would generate economic as
well as environmental benefits. PSAP also called for a mix of instruments including
legislation and regulation, fiscal incentives, voluntary agreements, educational programs
and information campaigns, and affirmed that "while large and medium industrial units
will remain totally responsible for control of their pollution, assistancewill be provided
to small-scale industrial units...to aid the implementation of pollution control measures"
through the development and adoption of cleaner techn~logies.~

1.7      Despite evolving national legal and institutional measures, according to the EAP,
"the establishment of a diversified industrialstructure, based on a unique combination of
heavy and small-scale industries and the growing urban and ruralpopulation inIndia, has
produced pressureson water and land resources [which] are reflected inthe growing
incidence of air and water pollution.yy*Poor compliance byheavily polluting industries,
particularlyin the chemical sectors, and institutionalweaknesses, especially with respect
to monitoringand enforcement by the SPCBs, were among the principal concerns
identified. Inthis context, the Bank was requested to provide financial and capacity
buildingsupport for industrialpollution control andprevention, basedinpart on its
experience with similar operations elsewhere, particularly Brazil:              from which the design
of the Indiaprojects (e.g., dedicated credit lines and technical assistanceto selected state
environmental protectionagencies) appears to have been largely drawn.

1.8     Controlling and preventingindustrial pollutionremains a significant
environmental challenge in India. Over the past decade, industrial development,

7. Government of India, Policy Statementfor Abatement of Pollution, February 1992.
8. Government of India, Environment Action Program, December 1993,pg. 20
9.More specifically, the S2o Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project, approved inMarch 1980, the
SecondIndustrialPollution Control Project, approved inJune 1987 (also for S2oPaulo state), and the
National IndustrialPollution Control Project, approved inJune 1992.

                                                     4


 stimulatedby economic liberalization, has been a major contributingfactor in the
 country's impressive output growth and presently accounts for roughly one quarter of
 GDP. Over the past few years, industrialproduction has expanded at about 8 percent
 annually and is expected to continue to be a significant element infuture economic
 growth. While compliance by larger industrialestablishments with national
 environmental regulations has greatly improved since the early 1990s,inpart as the result
 of Bank support, pollutionby small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs), which are
 currently estimated to account for as much as 60 percent of the total industrialpollution
 load, continues to be a significant concern. As a result, according to one recent Bank
 project document, "indiscriminate dumping of waste, both on site and alongside roads,
 rivers and canal pits outside industrial estates, is occurring and posing significant hazards
 to the labor force and localpopulation, and turning sizeable areas into ecologically
 degraded zones.""      Addressing air, water, soil and noise pollution from multiple sources
 including industry, accordingly, i s identified as an important element in GOI's recently
 approved NationalEnvironment Policy 2006.

 2. Project Design, Implementation and Results

Project Design

2.1      Not surprisingly since they were designed to beboth substantively and
geographically complementary, the objectives and components of the Industrial Pollution
Control and IndustrialPollution Prevention Projects (PCP and IPPP)were quite similar.
As statedinthe respective Staff Appraisal Reports (SARs), project objectives were as
follows:

             PCP: to support the Government of India's efforts to prevent and alleviate
             environmental degradation causedby industrialoperations and assist inthe
             successful attainment of the proposed short and medium-termtargets of its
             environmental policy. Specific goals were: (i)promote effective and timely
                                                                   to
             enforcement of existing legislationon environmental protection regarding
             industrial sources; (ii)    to support efforts by industry to comply with existing
             environmental regulations, including a special effort designed to reach small
             scale industry through the setting up of common treatment facilities; and (iii)
             to support resource recovery and pollution abatement inindustry. Inshort, by
             promoting improvedenforcement, while supporting compliance and providing
             technical assistance [to CPCB and four selected SPCBs] for the identification
             and implementation of solutions to environmental problems, the project



10.PCNfor the proposedIndiaCapacity Building for IndustrialPollutionManagementProject, op. cit.,
pg. 2. This notealso observes that "pollution preventionand waste minimizationis (sic) relatively more
expensive andtechnologicallychallengingfor SMEs" andthat "many of themcan not afford the requisite
investments ineffectivepollutionmitigation."
11.Governmentof India,National Environment Policy 2006,Ministry of EnvironmentandForests, New
Delhi,May 18, 2006.

                                                      5


             sought to be a catalyst for environmental performance improvements inthe
             Indian industrial sector.I2

             IPPP:to promote cost-effective pollution abatement from industrial sources,
             more specifically by: (i)     strengthening four additional SPCBs inrespect to
             their facilities, equipment, and skills, to enable them to more effectively
             performtheir mandate, while continuing the program of support to the Boards
             already assisted: (ii)    facilitating priority investments dedicated to prevent
             pollution from industrial sources by encouraging use of clean technologies,
             waste minimization and resource recovery by industry, or pollution control
             where cost effective and where these investments have a significant
             demonstration and replicationpotential; and (iii)         provide technical assistance
             for adoption of modern tools of information, management and control of
             residues; organize a clean technology network; and set up an extension service
             on environmentally sound practices for small scale industry.l3

2.2     Both projects contained components for institutionaldevelopment, investment
and technical assistance. They were characterized by complex financing and institutional
arrangements involving three Bank loans, two IDA credits, two domestic financial
intermediaries, the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF), the CentralPollution
Control Board (CPCB) and nine State PollutionControl Boards (SPCBs). The Bank
loans were channeled through the IndustrialCredit and Investment Corporationo f India14
(ICICI) and the Industrial Development Bank of India(IDBI) for on-lending to industrial
sub-bonowers inpriority subsectors, but through different arrangements and conditions
underthe two projects (described inAnnex B) that would have a direct impact on their
performance. The financial intermediaries and industrial sub-borrowers were expected to
use some of their own resources to finance pollution control and prevention investments
supported under the credit lines (see Annex B), while GO1was to provide counterpart
funds for the IDAcredits (US$ 17.4 millionfor IPCPand US$ 16million for IPPP). The
IDAcredits (US$31.6 million, for IPCPandUS$25 million, for IPPP) were to be passed
on as budgetary allocations (see Annex B for details).

2.3     The institutional development components were intended to strengthen
government enforcement capacity by financing improvements at CPCB and selected
SPCBs - inGujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh under IPCP and Andhra
Pradesh, Karnataka, MadhyaPradesh, and Rajasthanunder IPPP1' -- to enable them to
better carry out their legal responsibilities. These states were selected because of the
relatively high concentrations of pollutingindustries within their borders. More
specifically, these components would finance training programs in technical and
managerial skills, acquisition of laboratory and monitoring equipment required to
upgrade the analytical and technical capabilities of the Boards (both at their central


12. SAR, India Industrial Pollution Control Project (IPCP), ReportNo. 9347-IN, May 7, 1991, pg. 17.
13. SAR., India Industrial Pollution PreventionProject (IPPP), ReportNo. 12822-IN,June 9, 1994, pg. 13.

14.Now formally namedICICIBank Limited.
15. The SPCB inthe newly establishedstate of Chattisgarth, which was split off fromMadhyaPradesh
duringthe project implementationperiod, was later also added to this group.

                                                      6


headquarters and district office locations), and provision or improvement of other
facilities, including mobile monitoring stations. Additional support for training and
equipment was provided to the four SPCBs benefited under IPCPthrough IPPP, with
 special attention to Gujarat, including, among other measures, a Geographic Information
System (GIS)?

2.4      The investment components would finance individualsubprojects for waste
minimization, resource recovery and pollution abatement in "target" (Le., heavily
polluting) industrial subsectors, through the ICICIand IDBIcredit lines. "Adoption of
cleaner productionmethods" was added to the description of the industrialinvestments to
be funded under IPPP. CETPs at industrialestates for the treatment anddisposal of
liquidand solid waste and selecteddemonstration projects "based on their prototype
nature or novelty o f application inIndia, the potential environmental benefits and other
eligibility criteria," would also be financed. Under IPPP, financing was likewise to be
provided for Industrial Water Recycling Plants (IWRPs)17 and additional CETPs. As in
IPCP,these plants were designed to serve clusters of small and medium-scale industries
that could not afford individual treatment facilities.

2.5      The technical assistance component under IPCP was described very vaguely in
the SAR to "assist MOEFto evaluate environmental problems and solutions'' and ICICI
and IDBIto help potential industrialsub-borrowers undertake feasibility studies for
pollution control investments (other than those already prepared prior to appraisal for
immediate implementation). Under IPPP, this component would: (i)                support
establishment of a "clean technology institutional network designed to promote the
development, diffusion and transfer of technologies with environmentalbenefits for
industries;" (ii) extension services for identification of waste minimization and
                   provide
abatement methods for small scale industries, together with the organizationof "Waste
Minimization Circles" (WMCs); (iii)           finance pre-investment studies for CETPs, I W R P s
and other waste minimization facilities proposedfor funding under the project; and (iv)
provide other training and consulting services to MOEF,including on "requirements for
the preparation o f environmental statementsby industries."'*

2.6      Several smaller subcomponents were added to PPP following the Mid-Term
Review (MTR) inJanuary 2000. These were for strengthening environmental
management information systems (MIS/GIS) in the SPCBs and state environmental
awareness programs; an updated needs assessment for the project SPCBs; an independent
evaluation of WMCs; development of a laboratory guidance manual to standardize
procedures and strengthen quality control; and a resource optimization study to help
SPCBs improve their approach to sampling and analysis. The training program was also
reorganized and supervision intensifiedfollowing the MTR.



16. Gujarat was also a significant beneficiary under the contemporaneousBank-supported Environmental
Management Capacity Building(EMCB) Project, which i s the subject of a parallel PPAR, reported
separatelybut whose field mission was undertaken by IEGat the same time as that for IPCP and IPPP.
17. IWRPswere tertiary treatment units, mainly at municipal sewage treatment plants, intended to provide
a competitive source of recycled water for nearby industrial establishments.
18. More detailed descriptions of the TA and other components are contained inthe respective SARs.

                                                        7


 2.7       Even though the SAR for IPPPexplicitly refers to "implementation progress"
 with IPCP and contains an annex describing several of the individual subprojects
 financed under it, one highly questionable aspect of the design and processing of the
 second operation was the rapidity with which it followed the first, which, due mainly to
 procurement delays for the non-investment components, would remainunder execution
 for nearly five more years. As the ICR for IPPPcorrectly points out, this did not permit
 sufficient time for the results and lessons of PCP, which was the Bank's first such
 experience inIndia, to be properly taken into account inpreparing the follow-on
 operation, and was one of the mainreasons why quality-at-entry of the second project
 was unsatisfactory." As confirmedby senior officials at ICICIand IDBIduring the
 PPAR mission, moreover, insufficient analysis regarding the implications of evolving
 macroeconomic policy and domestic financial market conditions (e.g., progressive
 liberalizationand its short, medium and longer-term impacts 3nthe national industrial
 sector), the availability of competing - and less expensive -- credit lines (including those
 fundedby other multilateralandbilateral donors), and the differing terms of the Bank's
 on-lending arrangements for IPCPand PPP with respect to the subsequent uptake of the
 Bank-supported credit line resources by potential industrial sub-borrowers also constitute
 significant design shortcomings of the latter operation.

 2.8       Onthe more positive side, however, these two projects were innovative2' in
 several respects. PCP introduced CETPs and IPPPWMCs, which would subsequently
become models for use with mediumand small-scale industries inother parts of the
 world. As observed inthe ICR for IPPP and verified ina recent UNIDOAJNEP
assessment, for example,

          Asian countries such as Bangladesh, Philippines, Sri Lanka and Vietnam have
          picked up on the concept of CETP.. .WMC and its success have also been
          discussed in several international conferences.. ..Several countries, notably
          Indonesia, Egypt, Nepal, Sri Lanka, South Africa and Thailand, have taken a cue
          from the W M C program. Today the concept has been dovetailed into the design
          and operation of the UNIDO/UNEP NationalCleaner Production Centres.'l




19. For details, see Implementation CompletionReport (ICR), India Industrial Pollution Prevention Project,
Report No. 26255, June 30, 2003, pp. 7-9. IPPP was also subject to two different QAG reviews, in 1997
and 1999, respectively, which reached similar negative conclusions inthis regard.
20. CEPTs andWMCs were not included inthe earlier industrialpollution abatement projects in Brazil, for
example.
21. ICR for IPPP, op. cit., pp. 4-5. For a recent summary assessmentof the UNIDOLJNEPNational
Cleaner Production Centres, see Ralph Luken & Paul Hesp, Review of SelectedIndustrial Environmental
Initiativesof the UnitedNations Systemand Regional Banks -Issues Paperfor the UnitedNations
Environmental ManagementGroup,unpublished draft, January 17,2006. This paper also contains a
positive evaluation of IPCP and IPPP that seems to be drawn almost exclusively from the Bank's ICR of
the latter project, which was more critical of project performance.

                                                     8


 Project ImplementationandResults

 2.9       The ICRs provide detailed accounts of the implementation and results of bothIPCPand
 IPPP.22Hence, only the highlightswill be summarizedhere. Inthe case of IPCP, commitment of
 the ICICIand IDBIcredit lines for individualindustrial pollution control investments occurred
 quite rapidly, representingone of the motives for Bank processing of IPPP to move ahead-in
 retrospect, too --quickly. The principalreasonfor the rapidcommitment of IPCP credit line
 resourceswas the growing differential betweentheir on-lending rates and regular commercial
 interest rates as the former were not adjustedupward to parallel increasesin the latter. As a
 result, project credit lines becameincreasingly attractive to industrial sub-borrowers, although
 this led to certain distortions, including substitution of Bank-supported credit for that from other,
 more expensive, commercial sources in some cases. This experience contrasts sharply with that
 under IPPP, where demand for the credit lines proved to be much lower, leading to a
 corresponding decrease inthe number of subprojects financed andeventual cancellation of a
 substantial part of the Bank loans, particularly to IDBI. The availability of a robust pipelineof
potential industrial pollution control subprojects for funding under the credit lines for IPCP,
which was not the case for IPPP -- again due largely to the premature processing of the latter, and
thus, another significant quality-at-entry deficiency -- was also a factor inthe differing
experiences of the two operations.

2.10      Both IPCP and IPPPexperiencedsignificant implementation delays with their
institutional strengthening and technical assistancecomponents, particularly because of
equipment procurement problems. The CETPs financed under IPCP also suffered delays and
associatedcost overruns, largely because of organizational difficulties and communication
problems between MOEF and IDBI. The approval of demonstration projects under IPCP was
similarly delayed because of cumbersome approval procedures and the inability of IDBIto
identify appropriate subborrowers given that its client baseconsisted mainly of medium and large
scale enterprises(which were not eligible for assistanceunder this subcomponent). Despite this,
twelve projects were eventually approved, although three were subsequentlywithdrawn and five
were already under implementation, suggestingthat project funds may simply have beenusedto
substitute for more expensive non-project resources already available under more conventional
credit lines. Finally, delays were experiencedincarrying out a number of studies due to poor
coordination between MOEF and CPCB, together with the low priority given by ICICIand IDBI
for use of project funds to strengthentheir internal environment-related capabilities.

2.11      Many of the same implementation problems, especially equipment procurement delays,
affected IPPP, inpart because the new SPCBs (i.e., not assistedunder IPCP) were unfamiliar with
Bank requirements and procedures. Project results interms of the establishment of additional
CETPs and IWRPs were likewisedisappointing. Again, bothpoor executing agency performance
and inter-institutional coordination problems, especially between the central and state government
levels, were contributing factors. The ICR for IPPPobserves, additionally, that CPCB's lack of
involvement hindered efforts to disseminate good practices and lessons amongparticipating (and
non-project) SPCBs, thereby limiting possibilities of greater institutionallearning fromproject-
related experience. The PPAR mission confirmed that "horizontal" interaction among SPCBs,
although better than inthe past, continues to be limited, and that most communication takes place


22. The ICR for IPCP, which was carriedout by two experienced consultants andbenefitedfrom
significant Regionalmanagementoversight, was particularly good inthis respect,as inits assessment of
projectoutcomes and lessons, moregenerally. Furthermore, this ICR later playedan important rolein
reorientingthe institutionalstrengthening andtechnicalassistancecomponents of IPPPfollowing its Mid-
term Review. See ImplementationCompletionReport(ICR), IndiaIndustrialPollutionControlProject,
ReportNo. 19678, November 30, 1999.

                                                          9


 "vertically" between individual state Boards and the central environmental agencies in Delhi.
 Another issue affecting project implementation was the frequent turnover of senior managersin
 the SPCBs, which i s still the case, although, on the more positive side, there does appear to be
 significant continuity of senior technical staff (e.g., scientists and environmental engineers)
 within these agencies.23

 2.12     Implementationof the institutional strengtheningand technical assistance components of
 IPPP improved substantially over time, particularly after the Bank intensified its supervision
 following a change in the task team in 1998. As a result, greater attention was given bothto
 technical and managerial training and the introduction of I T and other system improvements, as
 well as to the continued upgrading of laboratories, monitoringequipment and other facilities, for
 the SPCBs. The relevance and usefulness of this assistance was emphasized to the PPAR mission
 by managers and staff inall of the SPBCs visited, and nearly all regrettedthat a proposedfurther
extension of IPPPhad not beengranted by Bank management-apparently more for internal
portfolio "quality" than development effectiveness reasonsz4- at a time when project
implementation was clearly improving.

2.13      Visits to SPCB laboratories and discussions with technical staff duringthe PPAR mission
revealedthat project-provided equipment andfacilities were being well used, but that a clear need
exists for further assistance. This encompasses both additional equipment, including information
technology and monitoringand analytical devices,z5and further training, especially on the
*,-;hnical side. Those interviewed at the state level also expressed strong appreciation for Bank
material and technical supportz6underthe projects, especially IPPP. The SPCBs and some state
Department of Environment heads indicated, however, that proper staffing, bothinquantitative
and qualitative terms, was the main limitation they were presently facing due to continued
government hiring freezes.




23. Most of the state EnvironmentDepartment heads and Chairmen of the SPCBs met duringthe PPAR
mission were relatively new intheir positions and, as a result, personally unfamiliar with the Bank-
supportedprojects, especially the older IPCP.

24. IEGwas informed that the decision not to further extend the projectprimarily reflected a desire on the
part of Regional managementat the time to reducethe number of "unsatisfactory" operations inits
portfolio despite what both the executing agencies and the Bank task team felt were sound technical
reasons for granting the requestedextension.
25. The SPCB for Rajasthan, for example, presentedthe PPAR mission with a request for additional IT
support to allow it to improve its networkingcapacity between its headquartersinJaipur and district
offices, while the SPCBs in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra referred mainly to the need to
enhance their air and water quality monitoringand analysis capabilities. The SPCB in Karnataka was
particularly proud of its mobile environmental education facilities, including specialized vehicles for use
with industries and schools and specifically focused on urban environmental issues, that had beenfunded
underIPPP, while environmental authorities inTamilNaduhighlighted their periodic newsletters,
includingrecent and forthcoming issues on biodiversity and coastal zone management, which also
benefited from Bank support under the environmental information system (ENVIS) component of the
EMBCproject mentioned in footnote 13 above.
26. Inadditionto the training opportunities providedthrough the project, including some outside of India,
professional staff at several of the Boards visited during the PPAR mission, particularly in Karnataka and
Tamil Nadu, as well as at ICICIheadquartersinMumbai, expressedtheir strong appreciation for the nature
and quality of the technical discussions held with the Bank's last task manager for IPPP, who made a point
of at least briefly visiting all the participating agenciesduringproject supervision missions.

                                                      10


 3. EvaluationFindings

 Relevance

 3.1       Project relevance i s rated as substantial for both operations. Industrialpollution,
 both among large scale and small and medium-sized enterprises was, indeed, a significant
 and growing problemassociated with rapidurbanization and economic growth in Indiain
 the 1990s. Its priority among the principal environmental management challenges facing
 the country was clearly identified inthe National Environment Program issued in 1993,
 and pollution abatement inindustrial and other sources, first with respect to water and
 later air, were the mainconcerns of Indian environmental legislationdating back to the
 early 1970s. This was reinforced InGOI's nearly simultaneous Policy Statement for
 Abatement of Pollution (PSAP). Environment, including pollution abatement, was also
 an "area of special emphasis" inthe Bank's May 1995 Country Assistance Strategy
 (CAS) for Indiathat specifically mentions Bank support for industrialpollution
 abatement through IPCPand IPPP27

 3.2      Combating industrialand other forms of pollution continues to be a highly
 relevant concern. Air and water pollution remain serious environmental problems in
 India, although the larger industrial sources are reportedly under much better control than
 they were inthe early 1990s. This is due inpart to financial and institutionalsupport
providedthrough IPCPand IPPP, but also to legal restrictions on the location of new
industrial activities2* and other factors (see para. 3.4 below). According to ICICI
technical staff met during the PPAR mission, several of the industrial pollution control
investments financed under the two Bank-supported operations hadimportant
demonstration effects for other (i.e., non-project-assisted) enterprises, particularly inthe
cement and sugar subsectors, indicatingthat their influence extended beyondthe specific
investments directly supported by these projects.

3.3       The importance of adequately addressing pollutioninIndiais undeniable. Urban
air quality problems, related mainly to the transport and energy sectors (i.e., the rapid
expansion of vehicle fleets2' and increasing energy demand supplied ingood measure by
coal-fired power plants), persist andcontinue to represent a major challenge for Indian




27. World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy for India, Report No. 14509-IN,May 19, 1995, pg. 23. It
states "besides strengthening State PollutionControl Boards, also finance industrial waste prevention,
common treatment and water recycling plants."

28. The importance of these restrictions, together with other, more direct pollution control measures, were
highlighted, for example, duringthe PPAR mission's meeting with the PrincipalSecretary for the
Environmentfor Maharasthra inMumbai.
29. Eventhough strong measurestaken by GO1inrecent years to remove lead from gasoline and convert
taxis, including three-wheelers, andbuses to clean natural gas (CNG) and other cleaner fuels inDelhi,
Mumbaiand other very large cities, among others, have had a positive impact, the rapid expansion inthe
number of two, three and four wheeled motor vehicles over the past decade, has resultedinadded
emissions. Nevertheless, the net effect has been apositive one.

 environmental authorities, as well as a major concern for civil society.30 Urban water
 pollution from non-industrial sources, including that associated with inadequate sewage
 and solid waste collection and disposal, i s likewise a significant continuing problem, as
 was repeatedly affirmed to the PPAR mission by officials at both the central and state
 government levels. On the industrial side, in turn, hazardous waste management
 continues to be a serious probleminmost states, while inthose, such as Karnataka and
 Tamil Nadu, where rapidly expanding informationtechnology industries are
 concentrated, electronic, or "e-waste" -particularly the safe disposal of obsolete
 computers and other IT equipment -- i s a growing concern.31 The need to adequately
 manage hazardous wastes from industrial and biomedical sources, for example, was at the
 top of the list of major environmental issues inIndia presented to the PPAR missionby
 the Member Secretary of the CPCB inDelhi.32

 3.4      According to many of those interviewedduring the PPARmission, including
 representatives of both the Confederation of IndianIndustry(CII) and the Centre for
 Science and Environment (CSE), improved regulatory enforcement by the SPCBs,
 especially those supported through IPCP and IPPPinthe states where the most highly
 polluting industries are concentrated, has played a role inimproved industrialcompliance
 with nationaleffluent and emissions standards. However, a much more important factor
 hasixen the Indianjudicial system, especially the Supreme Court, which has required
 greater industrial compliance with pollution legislationinrecent years. Growing public
 awareness regarding the severity of environmental -- especially air and water quality --
 problems associated with increasingly rapidurbanization and economic growth, has also
 played a major role, as have expandin media coverage and the action of key national
 environmental NGOs, including CSE.f           3   Incombination, the increasingly proactive
 courts, media, and selected NGOs, together with more enlightened public opinion, appear
to have been significant motivating and/or supporting factors in the reported growing
effectiveness o f the SPCBs incarrying out their legal mandates. The improved material,
technical, information processing, and managerial capabilities of these agencies, for
which PCP and IPPPdidprovide direct support, have also made an relevant
contribution.




30. See, for example, Centre for Scienceand Environment (CSE), TheLeapfrog Factor: Clearing the Air in
Asian Cities, New Delhi, 2006, which focuses especially on the transport sector.
31. The PPAR mission visit to Bangalore coincided with a full-day technical workshop on this subject,
which is now a significant concern to state environmental authorities, as i s the degradation and threatened
disappearanceof a systemof local lakes inBangalore, which i s one of the key environmental features of
India's self-proclaimed "garden city," due to rapid and poorly planned urban growth and sprawl. For more
on these and other local environmental priorities, see the excellent Stateofthe Environment Report and
Action Plan -2003 published, with Bank assistance, by the Department of Forest, Ecology and
Environment, Government of Karnataka, Bangalore, 2004.

32. This list in contained ina detailed Power Point presentation provided by the Member Secretary entitled
Overview of Activities and Achievements of Central Pollution ControlBoard, CPCB, February 28, 2005.
33. These factors were identifiedina specific case study presentation on air quality improvements inDelhi
ina recentBank workshop on social accountability and environmental governance. See Harry Blair,
Strengthening Social Accountability through Civil Society Action; Reducing Air Pollution in Delhi,
unpublished paper, Department of Political Science, Yale University, May 15, 2006.

                                                       12


Efficacy (Achievement of Objectives)

3.5       The objectives of bothIPCP and IPPPwere only partially achieved and with
significant shortcomings. IPCPwas more successful than IPPPinterms o f achieving its
investment objectives and less so interms of its institutional strengthening and technical
assistance objectives. While 76 pollution control subprojects were implementedunder
the investment component of IPCP, only 24 (12 financed by IDBIand 12by ICICI) were
supported under IPPP.34Most of the funding for bothoperations was, nevertheless, used
for its intended purposes, and most of the individualinvestment subprojects financed
under IPCPand IPPPappear to have generated their expected benefits. The objective of
reaching large and medium-scale industries in the chemical and other priority sectors in
the most industrialized states inIndiawas generally met, Subprojects financed under
IPPP, for example, came predominantly from the steel/aluminum, cement, petroleum
coke, and sugar subsectors, which together accounted for close to 70% of the total
investments.

3.6       The objective of assisting smaller-scale industries through the provision of
Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs), however, was only partly attained and with
delays. Performance in this regard under IPCP-- as inutilization of the ICICIand
(especially) IDBIcredit lines to finance individual industrialpollution abatement
investments-- was better than that under the subsequent IPPP, although the quality of
these facilities and their operation was an issue inthe former.35 Inthis connection, a
recent evaluation of CETPs throughout Indiaprovided to the PPAR mission by CPCB
found that, despite design improvements inthe treatment plants implementedunder
IPPP,36on the whole, performance of these facilities was "very unsatisfactory" due to
poor operation and maintenance.          37


3.7      Due inpart to procurement delays and inter-institutionalcoordination difficulties,
the objectives of the projects' institutional development and technical assistance


34. The respectiveICRs provide details on each of these investments.
35. The ICR for IPPP states that only 2 new CEPTs were financed under IPPP compared with 53 under
IPCP. According to the Principal Secretary for Environment inMaharasthra, however, CETPs financed by
the Bank were technically and organizationally superior with support from other sources. And in a recently
publishedevaluation of CETPs, 59 of the 88 such facilities were located inthe four states covered by IPCP,
as comparedto 14 inthe additional states supported by IPPP (see, Central Pollution Control Board,
Pe$omuznce Status of CommonEfluent Treatment Plants in India, Delhi, January 2006 for details).
36. According to the ICR for IPPP, the CEPTs funded under this project "were more comprehensive in
scope than [those] funded under IPCP and included aspects such as sludge management, waste
minimization and effluent recyclinglreuse - important aspects missed in schemes financed under IPCP."
(pg. 13) The IPPP team also preparedfor MOEF a CETP Policy Note which captured many of the features
of the new CEPT schemes financed.
37. CPCB, op. cit., pg. 27. This report also indicated that the SPCBs neededto conduct regular monitoring
"to ensure proper operation and maintenance, failing which they should initiate action against negligent
agencies and willful defaulters." The report contains a number of other specific technical recommendations
which should be considered for any future Bank operations that seek to support CEPTs. Its conclusions are
also consistentwith those of the ICR for IPCP which observed that "except in a few cases, most CETPs are
only inpartial compliance with the SPCBs' standards and are not operating according to design
specifications, and may have a shorter life span than planned." (op. cit., pg. iiiand pp. 16-19 for details).

                                                       13


objectives were also only partially achieved. The assistance provided, bothinterms of
facilities and equipment and management and staff training, appears to have been well
used and was clearly a preciatedby the beneficiary SPCBs, at least inthe states visited
by the PPAR mission.        8  However, the corresponding project components had a less
positiveimpact on MOEF and CPCB, and communication problems between these two
key nationalenvironment agencies appear to persist.39

3.8          The two new subcomponents under IPPP, moreover, largely failed to achieve
their intended objectives. Only one Industrial Water Recycling Plant (IWRP) was built,
and the proposed Clean Technology Network never got off the ground.40However, IPPP
did succeedinsetting up 115 Waste MinimizationCircles (WMCs), involving 17states
and41 industrial subsectors and directly benefiting over 500 small and medium scale
industries, which, according to the ICR, have "interacted to generate ideas on waste
minimization and pollution pre~ention."~~            In addition, it trained a large number of
professionals and organized awareness programs for 4,500 participants. Both of these
activities were relevant for the SPCBs since one o f their major responsibilities, as was
stressed during the PPAR mission visits to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, i s to raise public
awareness regarding environmental problems and solutions.

3.9          A final project accomplishment, as cited inthe ICR, was "clear evidence" that
several pa-ticipating SPCBs have become "more responsive to clients, more focused on
achieving and reportingresults, and less tolerant of poor performance and
While the PPAR mission was not able to independently determine the extent to which
SPCB performance hadimproved inrelation to possible corruption problems,43the
Boards visited by the mission do appear to be quite client-responsive and results-focused,
inpartbecauseof the equipment, systems (particularly ITimprovements) andtraining
provided under the Bank-supported projects, especially IPPP. However, the PPAR
mission also observed that considerable institutional and technical capacity differences

the size and technical qualifications of their professional staff, among other indicator^.^^
s t i l l exist among the Boards, as reflected in the extent and quality of their facilities and in



38. The ICR for IPPP notes that the SPCBs achieved their institutional objectives with a particularly strong
impact on environmental awareness in Andhra Pradesh(not visited by the PPAR mission) and Karnataka
(confirmed by the mission) and that this had a positive demonstration effect on non-project SPCBs.
39. A senior official in the CPCB informedthe PPAR mission, for example, that, despite CPCB's technical
knowledgeand experience, MOEF was not sufficiently involving the Boardinthe preparation of a possible
new Bank operation to support capacity buildingfor industrialpollution management.
40. According to the ICR for IPPP (op. cit., pg. 16), this was "offset to some extent" by the establishment
of a website for WMCs which has met some of the original objectives of the proposed Clean Technology
Network.
41. Ibid, pg. 16. The PPAR missionconfirmed with several interlocutors, bothat the central and state
government levels, that the WMCs were, indeed, a beneficial innovationintroduced under the project.
42. Ibid, pg. 17.
43. A strong view among some civil society groups, as reported in meetings with representativesof CSE
duringthe PPAR mission, is that, even though the situation appears to haveimproved inrecent years,
corruption remains an issue, although not necessarily involving the SPCBs supported under IPCP and IPPP.
44. Among the SPCBs visited, that inKarnataka appearedto be the most capable (and proactive), followed
by those inTamil Nadu, Maharasthra and Rajasthan, and this also was the general sense of local Bank

                                                       14


 Furthermore, several of the meetings with heads of state EnvironmentDepartments,
 particularly inJaipur and Mumbai, but also Bangalore, suggested that there are several
 areas where SPCB performance still needsto improve, and that they would benefit from
 further technical and managerial assistance from the Bank or other external

 Efficiency

 3.10     Despite the fact that they could have been calculated basedon investment
 subprojects in the project pipelines and actually implemented, overall economic rates of
 return (ERRS)were not providedinthe SARs or ICRsfor either project, while expected
 project benefits were described only ingeneral terms?6 This is a serious shortcoming.
 The SAR for IPPPdidindicate, however, that, as had previously been the case with
 PCP, each subproject sponsor would be subject to "a careful financial and economic
 analysis andonly those operations that on the whole are financially and economically
 viable" would be supported. Even though the individual investments are briefly
 described inannexes to the respective ICRs, and such calculations shouldhave been
 made, no rates of return are provided for subprojects funded under lPCP andthey are
 presented for only some of those financed under IPPP. The ICR for the latter project
 observed that, while IRRshad not been calculated for all subprojects, those that were
 ranged from16% to 35% for IDBI-supp>rtedinvestments and 20% to 92% those funded
 through ICICI. Inaddition, many subprojects had "significant demonstration potential,
 multiplier impacts, and environmental benefit^."^^ Inthe aggregate, these benefits
 reportedly included: savings of 10-35% inwater consumption, 15-20% inelectricity
 consumption, 10-20% infuel consumption, 10-20%inraw material use, 10-30% in
 wastewater generation, 5-10% inair emissions, and 5-20% in solid waste generation.



environmental staff interviewedin Delhi. Gujarat and Andhra Pradeshwere likewise viewed as states
havingcomparatively stronger Boards. On the whole, the relatively more modern and prosperous southern
states were judged to have better governance, both from an environmental and a more general standpoint,
than the poorer ones inthe north.

45. Duringthe PPAR mission meeting, the (recently arrived) Principal Secretary of the Environment
Department for Maharashtra, for example, criticized (inthe presenceof one of its most senior technical
staff members) the poor quality of a number of analyses and reports produced by the SPCB under the
tenure of her predecessor,as well as its website, and indicatedthat she was inthe process of inducing it to
improve its performance, which was expected to take about another six months.

46. The SAR for IPPP stated, for example, "an overall economic analysis of this project is not feasible, as
all the environmental and social benefits decurrent (sic) from the sponsoredactivities (health, safety,
conservation of natural resources) are difficult to quantify. However, the proposedproject will assist
industries to meet the environmental regulations for their industrial activities. These standardshave been
establishedby GO1as a measure of what are considered unacceptableenvironmental costs." (pg. 32)
Although not statedinthe SAR, this most likely actually reflected the lack of a pipelineof subprojects that
had beenassessed interms of their suitability for implementationunderthe additional credit lines and i s
simply another reflection of poor quality-at-entry.

47. ICR for IPPP, pg. 17. A similar impression was transmitted to the PPAR mission by senior officials and
technical staff of IDBIand ICICI. The ICR also observes that while "the institutional benefits under the
project (e.g., to SPCBs) are difficult to quantify ineconomic terms, under the WMC program, over 220 of
500 identifiedoptions were implemented, about US$2 millionininvestmentsby WMC member unitsled
to annual savings of about US$ 1.8 million, indicatinga payback periodof less than 14 months."

                                                         15


  This suggeststhat, on average, IPPPdid help reduce waste and improve efficiency of
  natural resource use in the individual industrial subprojects supported.

  3.1 1 This also appears to have been the case with the more numerous individual
  investments financed under IPCP, even though there was less of an up-front focus on
  pollution prevention than in IPPP. While this could not be independently verified by the
  PPARmissionwhich, due to time limitationsand their spatial dispersion, didnot have an
  opportunity to visit any of the individual industrialinvestment subprojects, the ICR for
  IPCPconcludes that "most individual subprojects appear to have generated their intended
 benefits, whether legal compliance, resource and/or energy savings, waste minimization
 through recyclingof wastes, or cleaner te~hnology."~~However, this i s not adequately
 documented inthe ICR and, more importantly, there i s no information for either project
 on possible improvements inambient air and water quality inthe areas where these
 investments took place, which i s another serious deficiency of these operations and
 reflects inadequate monitoring and evaluation.

 3.12        The efficiency of projectresource use andbenefits associated with the
 institutionalstrengthening and technical assistance components are more difficult to
 determine and, inany event, are not readily quantifiable. Nonetheless, the initial benefits,
 as described inmeetings with SPCBs duringthe PPAR mission, seem to have been
 substantial. Among the participating financial intermediaries, ICICIbenefited to a
 greater extent from training opportunities and other technical support, includingdirect
 interaction with the task team, than didIDBI,particularly during the latter stages of IPPP.
 The impacts on MOEFand CPCB were less significant, even though a number of studies,
 including on the staffing and organization of the SPCBs, involving a total of close to US$
  1million, were carried out under IPCP.49

 Institutional Development Impact

 3.13        The institutionaldevelopment impact of bothprojects was mixed, but appears to
 have been stronger under IPPPthan IPCP. The participatingSPCBs benefitedfrom the
 facilities and monitoring and laboratory equipment, as well as the training provided,
under both operations, but especially under IPPP. ICICI, particularly its Technology
Group, which includes a number of environmental specialists, also seems to have
benefited substantially from this component. Following its involvement inIPPP, ICICI


48. ICR for IPCP, pg. 20. Further details on these benefits in individual subprojects are provided inthe
ICR. It also notes, however, that "these achievementsneedto be temperedinseveral respects" including
that "most subloans for individual projects were made to [ICICI's and IDBI's] existing customers, and
were not necessarilydirected to the ones most inneedof this financial assistance; while investments
include many liquid effluent treatment subprojects and, to a lesserextent, dust and emissions control
subprojects,except for an incineration unit andthe waste recycling plants, the project didnot finance
investmentsto address problems of adequate disposal of hazardous wastes, apervasive probleminIndia;
and there are strong doubts about the incrementality of project environmental benefits, at least with respect
to 25 projects (one thirdof the number of total projects and 30% of total funding)."
49. These studies and their respective costs, rangingfrom roughly US$ 16,500 to US$ 163,000, are listed in
an annex of the IPCP ICR (pg. 101).The ICR notes, however, that the technical assistancecomponent of
t h i s project "appears to have suffered from a general lack of attention andfrequency of changes in senior
officials inMOEFand from a lack of close coordinationwith CPCB." (pg. 25)

                                                      16


 has successfully managed an ADB credit line for an EnergyEfficiency Project and has
 been the financial intermediary for a series of well-performing World Bank Montreal
 ProtocolProjects to reduce the production and consumption of ozone depleting
 substances in India. There appears to have been less of an impact on IDBI,50MOEFand
 CPCB. Considering that the main concern of the projects was on institutional capacity
 buildingat the state level, however, the PPAR agrees with the institutionaldevelopment
 ratings for PCP                  and IPPP (substantial) contained inthe respective ICRs.

 Sustainability

 3.14    Sustainability o f the benefits generated under both IPCPand IPPPis rated
 likely.52 The sustainability of some of the CETPs financed under IPCPremains
 questionable and these facilities suffer from operation and maintenance deficiencies
 according to the recent evaluation by CPCB. However, if the recommendations of the
 CPCB evaluation are followed by the pertinent SPCBs, these facilities could improve
bothinterms o f the quality of the waste disposal services they provide and their
 organization and financial sustainability inthe years ahead.

 3.15    More importantly, many of the individual industrial pollution prevention and
control investments financed by the ICICIand IDBIcredit lines under both projects are
likely to be sustainable. These improvements have reportedly providedtangible financial
 savings and other benefits (through resource savings, waste recycling, etc.) to the
industrial enterprises involved, inaddition to environmental (and economic) benefits to
 society as a whole inthe form of lower air and water pollution (and a likely associated
reduction in public health costs). Because of the private benefits, moreover, there i s a
built-in incentive for these firms to ensure the continuedefficient operation and proper
maintenance of these investments.

3.16     For the most part, the institutional strengthening support providedto the SPCBs
also appears to be reasonably sustainable over the medium term. This i s especially the
case with the assistanceprovided under IPPP, which, especially after the mid-term
review, was more attuned to the specific needs of each SPCB. The facilities, equipment
(both for monitoring and laboratory analysis and information technology), vehicles and
information systems (e.g., management and geographic information systems, among
others) financed under the projects are still inuse, and managerial and technical training
provided to participatingSPCB staff was and, according to those professionals met
duringthe PPAR mission ,continues to behelpful. The financialpositionof at least
some of the SPCBs also appears to be healthy, because of the Water Cess Act (mentioned
inpara, 1.4above) under which fees are channeled directly to the Boards rather than



50. Although given the much greater resourcesavailable to them as a result of their generaloperations,
assistance on the materialand informationtechnology fronts was clearly not neededby ICICIand IDBI, so
support under the projects primarily took the form of training,which was well utilized, especially by ICICI.
51. The ICR for IPCP, under an older rating format, considered achievements onthis score "partial," but
the IEGICR review rated them "modest," with which the PPAR agrees.
52. Inthis regard, the PPAR agrees with the ICR and IEGICR review for IPPP, but disagrees with the ICR
and IEGICR review for IPCP, where sustainability was rated as "unlikely" and "uncertain," respectively.

                                                     17


 passing them through the general treasury.53This i s particularly important, as financial
 sustainability -in this case, by having an earmarked, reliable and predictable revenue
 source -- i s generally a necessary condition for institutional sustainability as well.54

 3.17     Being aware of this, the ICR for IPPPcautioned that "the extent to which the
 favorable present financial retention arrangement may be vulnerable to future changes
 could not be assessedby the ICR mission [which took place inFebruary 20031,but this
 clearly bears on the future sustainability of these bodies." However, the April-May 2006
 PPARmission was able to ascertain that this arrangement i s still inplace, and that, while
 there are clearly differences among the Boards, the main constraints faced by the SPCBs
 at present appear to be more on the technical and staffing, than on the financial
 sustainability side More generally, risingpublic awareness about the increasing severity
 of environmental pollution and the serious healthand other impacts associated with it,
together with the aforementioned proactive stance of the courts and media, has
effectively strengthened environmental governance throughout India inrecent years. This
includes both industrial compliance and SPCB enforcement. It also contributes to the
continued effective use o f the material and technical assistance provided under IPCPand
IPPPand, thus, to the likely sustainability of the benefits associated with them, at least
over the medium-term.

3.18      Finally, some o f the concerns regarding potential project sustainability expressed
inthe ICRfor IPCP(issued inNovember 1999),finally, while valid at the time, would
appear not to have beenborne out inpractice or to have subsequently been izsolved.
Two, inparticular, merit additional comment. First, according to the ICR, "sustainability
of the investment components would largely depend on the ability of SPCBs to maintain
pressure for compliance through regular monitoring activities, agreed self-compliance
programs and enforcement actions." However, as the ICR points out "large and medium-
scale industries have significantly improvedcompliance since 1991under pressure from
the courts, and legal requirements for periodic environmental audits should reinforce this
trendfurther."55 Central and state government officials met duringthe PPAR mission, as
well as representatives o f CII and CSE, confirmed that both SPCB enforcement and
compliance by medium and large-scale industries have continued to improveover time,
especially inthe most industrializedstates, although compliance by many small-scale
industries, particularly those not served by CETPs, remains a challenge, as does the
adequate disposal of industrialhazardous wastes.

3.19     Secondly, the ICR for IPCPindicated that "the SPCBs made substantial progress
towards financial self-sufficiency, but it will be imperative that these funds be used


53. The ICR for IPPP specifically mentions the SPCB inAndhra Pradesh, which was not visited by the
PPAR mission, as a good practice example here. However, the Karnataka SPCB, which was visited, seems
to representa similar case interms of the characteristics described in the ICR and, to a lesser extent, so
does that inTamil Nadu, which was benefited primarily under IPCP with further assistanceunder the Bank-
supportedEMCB Project.
54. Ibid.,pg. 19 Despite this preoccupation, the ICR identifies other changes inthe "business culture" of
the SPCBs, including more open discussion of measures to fight corruption, as well as a more "service-
oriented" approachtoward clients and concern about improvingtheir public image, that are worthy of note.
55. ICR for IPCP, pg. 26.

                                                        18


 wisely. Specifically, effectiveness of the Boards needs to be enhanced inthe area of
 strategic planning and management."56 The field observations of the PPAR mission
 suggest that, at least among those Boards visited, this is, indeed, occurring, and that the
 institutional strengthening component of IPPPplayed a role inthese improvements,
 which were particularly evident in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. However, as the PPAR
 mission was only able to visit half of the participating SPCBs, the overall sustainability
 of benefits generated by the capacity buildingand technical assistance components could
 not be fully determined.

 Outcome

 3.20       Based on the evaluation results summarized above, the outcome of bothprojects can be
 consideredmoderately unsatisfactory. Inboth cases, the objectives were relevant but only partly
 achieved, with significant quality-at-entry problems and other shortcomings. Performance of
 IPCP was better than that of IPPPon the investment side, including the number (if not the
 quality) of CETPs installed, while IPPP was relatively stronger with respectto capacity building.
 Both projects had some positive institutional development impacts at the state level, although the
 impact of IPPPwas more substantial in this regard, especially during its final years, than that of
 IPCP. On the whole, sustainability of the economic, environmental, and institutionalbenefits
 associatedwith bothoperationsremainsuncertain, although additional support i s clearly needed
 (and desired) to assure continued capacity developinent of the participating SPCBs.

 3.2I Shortcomings included implementation delays with the institutional strengthening and
technical assistance components of bothprojects, underutilization of the IDBIcredit line under
IPPP, questionable quality and sustainability of some of the CETPs and demonstration projects,
ineffective use of some of the technical assistance resources, and less than fully satisfactory inter-
institutional coordination ,both "vertically" between the central and state government
environmental authorities and "horizontally" betweenMOEFand CPCB and across states among
the various project (and non-project) SPCBs. Some of the latter shortcomings persist and
represent an areathat future Bank or other donor capacity buildingefforts should address to
enhanceinstitutional learning among, and the associatedeffectiveness of, bothcentral and state
environmental agencies inIndia.

BankPerformance

3.22       Bank performance was mixed, but, on balance, mustbe ratedunsatisfactory for
both operations. While quality-at-entry for IPPPwas clearly poor for the reasons
indicated inpara. 2.7, that for the earlier PCP was also deficient according to the
respective ICR -- with which the PPAR agrees -- that observed "during preparation the
Bank failed to anticipate implementation difficulties which could have been foreseen"
such as the problems later experienced with procurement of equipment for the
institutional strengthening component. Supervision of IPCPwas likewise inadequate, in
part because it was carried out almost exclusively from Headquarters, but more
importantlybecause much of the focus of the missions that didtake place was on
preparation of follow-on operations, including lPPP and a proposed project to address
hazardous waste management, which the Bank later decided to drop.57Specific

56. Ibid, pg. 26.
57. It i s not entirely clear why the Bank decided not to proceed with this project,which appearsto have
beena priority at the time for GO1andis still a major concern of boththe CPCB and many of the state

                                                       19


 shortcomings included the infrequency of Bank missions,58especially for a project
 approach with which neither the Region nor the executing agencies were familiar, a
 insufficient Bank proactivity inresponding to implementation problems once identified,
 and inadequate attention to and reportingon financial aspects associated with
 management of the credit lines, which likewise contributedto the quality-at-entry
 shortcomings of the follow-on operation.

 3.23     Supervision duringthe early years of IPPP, which overlapped with the latter years
 of IPCPand involved the same Bank team, suffered from many o f the same problems for
 the same reasons. Bank management, both at the country and the sector levels, also
 seems to have given insufficient attention to these projects during much of the time they
 were under implementation. Supervision of PPPimproved considerably after 1998
following a chacge inthe task team, which managed to turn around many of the initial
concerns. As a result, needs for equipment, environmental information systems, public
awareness, data quality, resource optimization, personnel, and financial management
were identified and incorporated into the project. Supervision of project procurements
and financial aspects was also strengthened. The positive results o f more intensive Bank
 supervision duringthe latter years of project implementationwere verified by the PPAR
mission. However, the PPAR agrees with the ICR that these improvements were not
sufficient to o?wride     the unsatisfactory nature of Bank performance duringpreparation,
appraisal, and early supervision.

Borrower Performance

3.24      Overall, borrower performance was also unsatisfactory, although it i s important
to distinguishbetween that of the participatingagencies at the national@e., MOEF,
CPCB, ICICIand IDBI) and subnational (SPCB) levels. Performance of the latter was
generally better than that of the former, except interms of procurement delays. At least
interms of credit linecommitments and the number of individualinvestments supported,
it i s also necessary to differentiate the performance of the participatingfinancial
intermediaries under the two projects, with that inIPCP being superior to that in IPPP.
ICICI's performance was also considerably stronger than that of IDBIin IPPP.

3.25      However, these shortcomings are largely a reflectionof basic project design
deficiencies, for which much of the responsibilitymust fall squarely on the Bank. The
ICRsprovide the reasons for these assessments insome detail, which include low
involvement of Borrower agencies in project preparation, especially for IPPP, together


Boards. Presumably, increasing awareness within the Bank of the design and implementationdeficiencies
of IPCP and IPPP were contributingfactors to this decision. Inaddition, it appears that country
management at the time was primarily concerned with low disbursements, "while sector management
appears to have lost confidence inthe approach of extending credit to industrialfirms by the time of the
IPCP ICR in 1999." Other relevant considerations were the availability of competing sources of capital
from other banks, especially to larger industries, but even to smaller ones though credit lines supported by
other donors. Abandonment by the Bank of this approachto industrial pollution abatement also occurred
around the same time inBrazil, so this tendency was not restricted to India alone.
58. The ICR for IPCP, op. cit., observes, "in general, the frequency of missions, only annually, except in
1996and 1997, may not have been sufficient at times, given the novelty of the project in India and the
problems that emerged." (pg. 27)

                                                  20


 with many of the same project management, procurement and inter-institutional
 coordination problems that characterized IPCP.

 4. Lessons

 4.1     The ICRsfor bothoperations contain a number of relevant findings and lessons,
 focusing on specific project design and implementation issues. The PPAR agrees with
 these observations, which will not be repeated here. Unfortunately, moreover, the ICR
 for PCP and MTRfor IPPPwere not carried out sooner, so that their lessons and
 recommendations could have been taken into account earlier inthe life of the follow-on
 operation. As a result, it experienced many o f the same design-related problems
 encountered by IPCP. This timing "disconnect," while perhaps unavoidable given the
 Bank's (inretrospect, clearly premature) decision to press ahead quickly with the
 processing of IPPP, nevertheless suggests an important generic lesson: theBank should
not goforward with new (even complementaryfollow-on) projects that attemptto
extendand/or replicatepreviously untesteddesign approaches when there has been
 insufficient opportunity to monitor, evaluateand learnfrom the implementation
experienceand results of thefirst operation.Adequate monitoring and evaluation
mechanismsare alsoparticularly important nder thesecircumstances.
                                                    1:

4.2      A second lesson concerns the way the objectives of these projects were framed: to
 support GO1efforts to prevent and alleviate industrialpollution (IPCP) and to promote
cost-effective pollutionabatement from industrial sources (IPPP). These are general
objectives that focus on processes rather than concrete results interms of environmental
q~ality.~'However, by expressing project objectives interms of support to processes
rather than attainment of outcomes, there i s no incentive to buildin monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms that focus on environmental results, without which it i s
impossible to determine what the actual environmental impact of the actions taken has
been. This was clearly the case with both IPCPand IPPP. To the extent possible,
therefore, the objectivesof Bank-supportedenvironmentprojects should identifi up-
front thespecific outcomes they seek to achieve in terns of improvements in
environmentalquality.

4.3     Other general lessons which can be drawn from this experience refer to the
approach to pollutionmanagement followed in IPCPand IPPP, which was clearly a
partial one. While industrial pollutionwas an important contributing factor to overall air
and water quality problems inIndia in the 1980s and OS, and the projects' focus on the
most highly pollutingindustrial subsectors and establishments by targeting them and the
states where they were primarily locatedwas not inappropriate, these efforts should have
beenplaced in the context of more comprehensivenational and localpollution
abatementstrategies, involving thefull range of contributing sectors (in all likelihood
including urban sanitation, transport, energy and even agriculture, as well as industry)
and suitableactions to address air, water?and land degradationproblems in a more
spatiallyfocused way.


59. Many early Bank environment projects had similar objectives, so IPCP and IPPPare not unique inthis
regard.

                                                         21


 4.4        By not doing so, even though project environmental outcomes appear to have
 been positive, in that they did reduce emissions and effluent discharges by specific
 polluting industries, they may not have had a significant impact in terns of improving
 overall ambient air and water quality in the places where these industrialplants are
 situated!'   This could havebeen the case either becausethe establishments involvedare
 spatially dispersed, becausenon-industrial sources of air and water pollution were not
 addressed at the same time at the same locations, or both. Inany event, no information
 was collected that would allow an assessment of these potentialimpacts on ambient
 environmental quality.

 4.5       Inshort, these operations, with their exclusive focus on (in all likelihood,
 dispersed) industrial sources, may havebeen necessary, but not sufficient, to resolve
broader air and waterpollutionproblems inIndia, even inthe specific localities where
project-related investments were made. Nor i s information providedinany of the project
documents (either ex-ante or ex-post) about the relative importance of industrialversus
other sources of air and water pollution inthe specific localities where project
interventions occurred. Hence, it is impossible to determinethe relativepriority of
addressing industpial, as compared with other, sources of pollution at anyparticular
locality, or more generally. Thisshould, infact, have been the startingpointfor Bank
involvementin this regard.

4.6       By not taking an "area-based" approach to addressing pollution problems, the
Bank missed an opportunity to implement one of its own specific recommendations
following its assessment of GOI's EnvironmentAction Program in 1995. Why this
"disconnect" occurred i s unclear, but it would appear that the staff assessingthe EAP and
managing preparation of IPPPwere either not sufficiently in communication (or
agreement) regarding how the Bank should approach pollution abatement in Indiaor that
there was simply too much "inertia" inthe design o f TPCP that was carried over without
much question into IPPP.

4.7       The approach to industrialpollution management through lPCP and IPPPwas
also a partial one in that it did not incorporate thefull range of instruments which could
have potentially been used to achieve pollution prevention and control objectives. The
approach followed did involve a combination of "carrot" (i.e., effectively subsidized
credit for industrialpollution abatement investments, grant financed Common Effluent
Treatment Plants, demonstration projects, etc.) and "stick" (i.e., effluent charges,
strengthening of SPCBs to enhance their capacity to enforce pollution control legislation
and monitor industrial compliance). And the two acting together, particularly stronger
enforcement on the part of environmental authorities, do generally appear to have had a
positive result interms of reducingpollution inthe "target" industrialsubsectors, at least
among the larger establishments. However, public disclosureof polluting industries,
especially inthose cases where compliance problems persisted, could also have been
used as a way of inducing offenders to adopt less pollutingand/or resource saving
technologies and better waste management practices. This approach has proven highly



60. Or as the IEGICR review for IPCPput it "lines of credit gearedto environmentaIIy related investment
by private entities are likely to provide little assistance inachievingbroader sectoral objectives."

                                                      22


 cost-effective in other countries such as Indonesia" and could also be particularly so in
 India given growing public awareness of the health and other costs associated with
 pollution, together with the increasingly proactive role of environmentalNGOs, the
 media ,and the court system. The associated lesson i s that Bankprojects seeking to
 improve the environment, whether in a single sector such as industry or more
 generally, should use all available means to achieve this objective.

 4.8       Institutional strengthening of the State PollutionControl Boards was an important
 objective of both Bank operations. This i s apersisting need clearly recognized by the
 Boards themselves. More generally, institutional capacity buildingfor environmental
 management (as for many other purposes) tends to bea long-termprocess that requires
 continuous support. In this regard, the Bank missed an opportunity to be more helpfulto
 the SPCBs by not granting afurther extension at i! time when IPPP's implementation
 was clearly improving.62 This reportedly occurred becauseBank management was more
 concerned with removing an "unsatisfactory" project from its portfolio than continuing to
 support key client agencies when they were making increasingly good use of Bank
 assistance. The corresponding lesson is that inproject extension decisions, development
 effectiveness considerations should takeprecedence over internal Bank portfolio
 "quality)' concerns.

 4.9       Finally, inaddition to the need to approach pollution management challenges ina
 more holistic and spatially strategic way, a number ofprioritiesfor potential future
 Bank and/or other donor support were confirmedindiscussions with environmental
 authorities and other national stakeholders during the PPAR mission.63 These include:

          Within the industrial sector, preventing and controllingpollutionfrom small and
          medium-scale establishmentsthrough better functioning CETPs and other means
          appears to be the principal on-going challenge, together with collection and
          disposal of hazardous waste.Both at the central and state government levels, GO1
          recognizes the need to improve the design, implementation and operation of
          CEPTs, to focus more on smaller polluting industries, and to properly address
          hazardous waste issues from both bio-medical and industrial sources.




61. For a discussionof this and other approachesto industrial pollution management, see World Bank,
Greening Industry: New Rolesfor Communities, Markets and Governments, Oxford University Press, New
York, 2000, especially Chapter I11("Communities, Markets and Public Information").
62. It is encouraging to note, however, that a follow-on project for Capacity Buildingfor Industrial
PollutionManagement inIndia (Project Concept Note dated February 26,2006) i s under preparation and
proposes to assist the SPCBs and local authorities with some of the pollution problems not covered or
adequately resolved by IPCP and IPPPincluding hazardous waste and municipal solid waste management.
63. Thesepriorities seem to generally coincide with those identified duringthe recent elaboration of a
Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) for India, which highlightsindustry, together with the energy and
highways sector. According to the concept note for this exercise, datedNovember 13, 2004 and which is
now nearingcompletion, the industrial section of the analysis will focus particularly on experiences with
the development and managementof industrial estates and environmental compliance and performance by
industry.

                                                      23


          Urban air quality, especially associated with the transport and energy sectors, i s a
          key priority, and should be a focus of greater Bank attention in the future.64

          Indoor air pollution resulting from household use of traditionalbiomass fuels
          (including fuelwood, dung and crop residues) continues to be a significant
          problem in many rural areas65and needs to be addressedas part of a more
          comprehensive approachto pollution management inIndia.

          An increasing industry-related pollution problem, especially inKarnataka and
          Tamil Nadu, i s electronic or "e-waste," or the safe disposal of used computers
          and other electronic equipment.

          Perhaps the most serious pollution problems at present, especially in terms of
          their adverse health impacts on the poor are associated with inadequate
          collection, treatment and disposal of municipal sewage" and solid waste,
          particularlyinthe largest urban areas.67

          In this connection also, considerable interest was likewise expressed inreceiving
          bothtechnical and financial assistance, includingthrough carbon finance
          mechanisms, for projects to capture methanefor energyproduction linked to the
         installation of sanitary landfills and, thus, to more adequate solid waste
          disposal.68




64. For experienceto date see For A Breath of Fresh Air: Ten Yearsof Progress and Challenges in Urban
Air Quality Management in India, 1993-2002,Environment and Social Development Unit, South Asia
Region, World Bank, New Delhi ,June 2005.

65. See, for example, Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), India: Household
Energy, Indoor Air Pollution and Health, Report No. 261/02, World Bank, November 2002.
66. This was also one of the main conclusions of the environmental background paper for IEG'sCountry
AssistanceEvaluation (CAE) for India (see Klaus Ringskog & Nola Chow, India: Environmental
Sustainability in the 1990s- A County Assistance Evaluation, OED Working Paper Series, 2002.
67. The Bank has also recently steppedup its assistanceinthis area through specific analytical work on
solid waste management(see DavidHanrahan, Sanjay Srivastava & A. Sita Ramakrishna, Improving
Management of Municipal Solid Wastein India: Overview and Challenges, Environmentand Social
Development Unit, South Asia Region, New Delhi, April 2006). According to this report, as many as 45
milliontons  dsolid   waste are currently generatedon an annual basis inIndia, with Mumbai and Delhi
alonejointly accounting for some 5 million tons a year. At expected future rates of urbanization and
economic growth, the total is projected to rise to 100milliontons a year sometime between 2015 and 2020.
68. The Principal Secretaryfor Environment for Maharasthra specifically requestedBank technical
assistance in this area and her request was communicated to the operational staff responsible for
environmental matters in India.


                                               25                                   Annex A


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

IndiaIndustrialPollutionControl Project(Loan 3334-INand
Credit 2252-IN)

KEYPROJECT           DATA   (AMOUNTS IN US$ MILLION)

                                            Appraisai      Actual or         Actual as % of
                                             estimate   current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                           260.0         685.0 *               263 *
Loanamount                                    124.0           116.5                94.
Credit amount                                  31.6           23.3                 74
Cofinancing                                    25.0           57.3                 230
Cancellation                                    --            14.1                  -_

* Includes    total subproject costs reported by ICICIand IDBIand not pollution control-
related costs alone (which were not reported), and, thus, i s not directly comparable with
appraisal estimate.


CUMULATIVEESTIMATED            AND ACTUALDISBURSEMENTS

                         FY92      FY93     FY94    FY95-   FY96 -~FY97       FY98     FY99
Appraisal estimate        7.0      15.0     34.0    72.0    106.5    129.0    144.0    155.6
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)            8.03     19.09    65.74    73.92   83.96    116.8    135.8    139.8
Actual as  O hof         114.7    127.3    193.4    102.7   78.8     90.5      94.3    89.8
appraisal

Dateof final disbursement:       October 6, 1999


PROJECT     DATES

                                                  Original                   Actual
                                                     _ _
                           -111111-1111~.111-~-_11

Identification/Preparation                                                 October 1989

Appraisal                                       October 1990               Nov/Dec 1990
Negotiations                                   February 1991             Apr 15-19, 1991

Boardapproval                                    March 1991                May 30,1991
Signing                                              --                    July 8, 1991
Effectiveness                                   October 1991            November 6, 1991

Closingdate                                    June 30, 1998             March 31, 1999

Annex A                                     26


STAFFINPUTS       (STAFF WEEKS)

                                No of staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
Preappraisal                          95.9                             218.5

Appraisal                             33.8                              37.1

Negotiations                          10.8                              26.5

Supervision                          208.4                             281.5

Completion                             n.a.                              n.a.
Total                                  n.a.                              n.a
                                                                 ~




MISSION     DATA

                   Date     No. of  Staff   Specializations   Perfor- Rating    Typesof problems
                 (month/    persons days     represented      mance    trend
                  Year)               in                      rating
                                    field
Identification October 1989    3      19   CHEMICAL
                                           ENGINEER F V )
                                           ENV. SPECIA;!.iST,
                                           ECONOMIST
Preparation    January 1990    1     14    CHEMICAL
                                           ENGINEER (TM)
Pre-appraisal   April 1990     1     29    CHEMICAL
                                           ENGINEER (TM)
Follow-UP       AugJSept      3      18    CHEMICAL
                  1990                     ENGINEER (TM),
                                           ENV. SPECIALIST,
                                           ECONOMIST
Appraisal       Nov/Dec.      7      20    CHEMICAL
                  1990                     ENGINEER (TM),
                                           ENV. SPECIALIST,
                                           ENV. ENGINEER,
                                           INSTIT.
                                           SPECIALIST,
                                           ECONOMIST

Supervision1    November      6      13    CHEMICAL               1      1    Additionalwork
                  1991                     ENGINEER (TM),                     requiredon State
                                           ENV. ENGINEER,
                                           INSTIT.                            BoardsOrganization
                                           SPECIALIST,                        Study; no
                                           ECONOMIST,                         demonstration
                                           PROC.                              projectsidentified
                                           SPECIALIST,
                                           OPERAT1ONS
                                           ANALYST

Supervision2   October 1992   4      8     CHEMICAL               1      1    Lack of continuityin
                                           ENGINEER (TM),                     staff of
                                           ENV. ENGINEER,
                                           INDUST.                            implementationcell;
                                           ENGINEER,                          need to simplify
                                          OPERATIONS                          approval procedures
                                          ANALYST                             for demonstration
                                                                              projects, needfor
                                                                              detailedtraining
                                                                              schedules and full

                                        27                                    Annex A
-                          - ~                          ~  ,,-,
                                                           -                                ~ ,
                  Date     No. of Staff Specializations Perfor-   Rating     Typesof problems
                (month/   persons days   represented    mance     trend
                 Year)             in                   rating
                                  field
                                                                           time training
                                                                           coordinator

Supervision3  March 1993            7  CHEMICAL            1         1     Delays in procurement
                                       ENGINEER (TM),                      of eqpt (instit.
                                       ENV. ENGINEER,                      Strengthening
                                       OPERATIONS
                                       ANALYST                             component), CETPS
                                                                           approvals lagging
                                                                           behind, difficulties in
                                                                           identifyingeligible
                                                                           demonstration
                                                                           projects.

Supervision4   AugISept.           15  CHEMICAL            S       HS      Needto strengthen
                  1994                 ENGINEER (TM),                      implementationcell;
                                       ENV. ENGINEER,                      delays in procurement
                                       ECONOMIST,
                                       OPERATIONS                          of eqpt; needto
                                       ANALYST                             change approval
                                                                           proceduresfor
                                                                           demonstration
                                                                           projects

Supervision5  JanIFeb 19%          13  CHEMICAL            S         S     No progress in
                                       ENGINEER (TM),                      demonstration
                                       ENV. ENGINEER,                      projects and in
                                       OPERATIONS
                                       ANALYST                             committingtechnical
                                                                           assistance funds;
                                                                           delays in procurement
                                                                           of equipment
SUpelViSiOll6- February            17  CHEMICAL            S         S      Needto strenghthen
mid-term          1996                 ENGINEER (TM),                       implementationcell;
review                                 ENV. ENGINEER,                      delsys in procurement
                                       ECONOMIST,
                                       OPERATIONS                          of eqpt; slow pace of
                                       OFFICER, RES.                       disbursements;delays
                                       ASSISTANT                           in Performance
                                                                            Indicators Study; need
                                                                           to reviewexperience
                                                                            on CETPs

Supervision7  October 1996          5  CHEMICAL         No rating No rating No progress under
                                       ENGINEER (TM),                      Technical Assistance
                                                                            component;delays in
                                                                            releaseof grantsto
                                                                            CETPs; unsatisfactory
                                                                            performanceof
                                                                            implementationcell

Supervision8    February           17  CHEMICAL            S         S      Counterpartfunds
                  1997                 ENGINEER (TM),                      from Central
                                       ENV. ENGINEER,                       Government;delays in
                                       ECONOMIST                            releaseof grantsto
                                                                            CEPTs; major delays
                                                                            in procurementof
                                                                            eqpt; mixed
                                                                            environmental
                                                                            performanceof
                                                                            completedCETPs

Supervision9   July 1997           13  CHEMICAL         No rating No rating Delaysin release of
                                       ENGINEER (TM),                       grantsto CETPs and

Annex A                                       28


                     Date       NO.of   Staff Specializations  Perfor- Rating      Typesof problems
                    (month/     persons days   represented     mance    trend
                     Year)               in                    rating
                                        field
                                                                                 resulting cost
                                             ASS1STANT                           overruns; IDBl
                                                                                 personalguarantee
                                                                                 requirementsfor
                                                                                 CETPs; need to
                                                                                 develop a systematic
                                                                                 strategy to optimize
                                                                                 CETP design,
                                                                                 operations and
                                                                                 management,and
                                                                                 outside monitoring;
                                                                                 insufficient attention to
                                                                                 sludge management
                                                                                 and feasibility studies
Supervision 10    August 1997            15  CHEMICAL                     S      Report notfound
                                             ENGINEER(TM),
                                             ENV. ENGINEER
Supervision11      September             13  OPERATIONS                No rating Delays in procurement
                     1998                    OFFICER, ENV.                       of eqpt; commitment
                                             SPECIALISTS(2),
                                             PROC.                               of IDAfunds to 15
                                             SPECIALIST                          CETPs in Delhi
                                                                                 without Bank
                                                                                 agreement may not be
                                                                                 eligible.

FinalSPN and       April 1999            18  OPERATIONS                   S      Late delivery of eqpt.;
ICR                                          OFFICER (TM),                       Commitment of IDA
Preparation                                  ENV. ENGINEER,
                                             INDUST.                             funds to additional
                                             ENGINEER,                           CETPs without IDBI
                                             ECONOMIST,ENV                       review and Bank
                                             SPECIALIST,                         approval
                                             PROC.
                                             SPECIALIST,
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST



OTHERPROJECT         DATA

Borrower/ExecutingAgency:

FOLLOW-ON   OPERATIONS
                                                                       _ _ ~ I


Operation                                      Credit no.      Amount          Board date
                                                             (US$million)
Industrial Pollution Prevention Project        L3779-IN         93.0          July 26, 1994
                                               L37806-1N        50.0
                                               C2645-IN         17.7
EnvironmentalManagement Capacity               C2930-IN         50.0          December 23,
BuildingTechnicalAssistance Project                                               1996

                                            29                                    Annex A


IndiaIndustrialPollutionPreventionProject(Loan3779 & 3780-IN
and Credit 2645-IN)

KEYPROJECT          DATA   (AMOUNTS IN US$MILLION)

                                         Appraisal         Actual or       Actual as % of
                                          estimate      current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                        330.0            1046.6*             317 *
Loan amount                                143.0             78.8                55
Credit amount                               25.0             23.3                93
Cofinancing                                162.0              **                 x*


Cancellation                                 _ _             66.7               n.a.

* Includes total subproject costs reported by ICICI and IDBIand not pollution
prevention-related costs,alone (which were not reported) and, thus, are not directly
comparable with appraisal estimate.
** Unavailable.

CUMULATIVEESTIMATED ACTUALDISBURSEMENTS
                            AND

                      FY95   FY96    FY97   FY98       FY99  FYOO     FYOl   FY02    FY03
Appraisal estimate    5.6    22.4    42.0    74.4      112.3 151.1    165.1   168     168
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)         6.0    6.0     11.6    19.9      22.3   23.6    31.1   60.8    80.4
Actual as % of        107.1  26.8    27.6    26.7      19.9   15.6    18.8   36.2    47.9
appraisal

Date of final disbursement:   Aprill6, 2003


PROJECT    DATES

                                                Original                   Actual
PCD                                                _ _                  March 8, 1993
Negotiations                                       --                         --
Boardapproval                                      --                   July 26, 1994
Signing                                                               November 21, 1994
Effectiveness                                      ____                 March 1, 1995
Closing date                                March30, 2002             November 30,2002

Annex A                                    30


STAFFINPUTS        (STAFF WEEKS)

                              No of staff weeks                  US$(`000)
Identification/preparation       93.6                             240.7
Appraisalhegotiation             38.9                             118.8

Supervision                     280.4   ,                         1,710.4

Completion                       25.6                             103.0

Total                           394.3                            2,172.9


MISSION    DATA

                    Date     No. of   Specializations represented    Performance rating
                            persons                              Impl. Progress Dev. Obj
Identification/  9/30/1993           ENVIRONMENTALENGINEER,
Preparation                          ENVIRONMENTALSPECIALIST
                                     OPERATIONSOFFICER,
                                     ECONOMIST,GIS SPECIALIST

Appraisal        2/2111994           ENVIRONMENTALENGINEER,
                                     ENVIRONMENTALSPECIALIST
                                     OPERATIONSOFFICER,
                                     ECONOMIST,GIS SPECIALIST
Supervision      02/29/1996    5     ENVlRONMENTAL ENGINEER            S           S
                                     (1); RESEARCH ASSISTANT(1);
                                     OPERATIONSOFFICER (1);
                                     ECONOMIST(1);CHEMICAL
                                     ENGINEER (1)
                02/26/1997    3       CHEM. ENGG. (1);                 S           S
                                      ECONOMIST(1); ENV. ENGG.
                                      (1)
                 09/01/1997   1       CHEM. ENGR. (1)                  S           S

                 09/25/1998   4       TEAM LEADER (1); TEAM            S           S
                                      MEMBER (1);
                                      PROCEUREMENTENGINEER
                                      (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                      SPECIALIST (1)
                 0411611999   4       SR. ENVIRONMENTALSPEC            S           S
                                      (2);PROCUREMENT
                                      SPECIALIST(1);
                                      INFORMATIONTECH SPEC
                                      (1)
                 01118/2001   5       TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S            U
                                      ENVAT SPECIALIST (1);
                                      PROCUREMENTSPECIALIST
                                      (1); DISBURSEMENTSPEC.
                                      (1); ENV. CONSULTANT(1)

                                          31                                 Annex A



                  Date        No. of  Specializationsrepresented    Performancerating
              (month/year) persons                                Impl. Progress Dev. Obj
               11/26/2001       5     TASK TEAM LEADER (1); IT          U          U
                                      SPECIALIST(1); SR.
                                      PROCUREMENTSPECIALIST
                                      (1); ENVlRONMENT
                                      CONSULTANT(1); SR.
                                      FINANCIALSPEC. (1)
               05/10/2002       6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S          S
                                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                                      SPECIALIST(2); FINANCIAL
                                      SPECIALIST(2);
                                      PROCUREMENTSPECIALIST
                                      (1)
Completion       2/2003         4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                     ENVIRONMENTALSPECIALIST
                                     (1);ICR CONSULTANTS(2);
                                     INANCIALSPECIALIST (1)
                                     PROCUREMENTSPECIALIST
                                     (1)


OTHERPROJECT     DATA

Borrower/ExecutingAgency:

FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                  Creditno.     Amount         Board date
                                                       (US$ million)


EnvironmentalManagemenlCapacity            C2930-IN        50.0         December23,
BuildingTechnicalAssistance Project                                        1996

32

                                               33                                Annex B


Annex B. Project FinancingArrangements

        As observed inthe main text of this report, IPCP and IPPPhad different and complex
financing arrangements, which had a direct impact on their performance. Inthe case of
IPCP, the Bank loan of US$ 124millionwas to GOI, which on-lent the proceeds to ICICI
(US$50 million) and DBI(US$74 million), while inthat of IPPP, the Bank loans went to
ICICI(also US$50 million) andIDBI(US$93 million) directly. In the loan for IPCP,
moreover, the Government bore the foreign exchange risk and on-lent to ICICIand IDBIin
Rupees at an interestrate 2% below the long-term commercial lendingrate (15% at the time
of appraisal) with a repaymentperiod of 15 years and a 5 year grace period. ICICIand IDBI
were to on-lend to their industrial sub-borrowers at 15% or other rate agreed with the Bank.

        The direct loans to the two financial intermediaries for PIP,inturn, were for aperiod
of 20 years with a 5 year graceperiod at the Bank's standardvariable rate, and ICICIand
IDBI, ratherthan GOI, assumedthe foreign exchange risk. According to the SAR, the
borrowers would then on-lend to their sub-borrowers at rates determinedby the former based
on "market conditions" andtheir respective lending policies "at levels not lower than
prevailing minimumrates, with a maximumten year repayment period, including up to two
years grace."

        Inaddition to the Bank andIDA resourcesto be on-lent through the special credit
lines, both ICICI and IDBI, on the one hand, and each of the industrial sub-borrowers, on the
other, were expectedto contribute some of their own resources to finance pollution control
investments. More specifically, these contributions were expected to be US$25 million
(intermediaries) andUS$ 62 million (sub-borrowers) under IPCP and US$ 60 million (ICICI
and IDBI) andUS$ 86 million (sub-borrowers) under IPPP, respectively.

        The IDA credits for IPCP andIPPP, finally, were expectedto be allocated as follows:

        IPCP: US$ 14.1 millionto MOEF for the institutional and technical assistance
        components; US$5.5 million to IDBI,which would act as a "Government agent" for
        demonstrationprojects and technical assistanceschemes; and US$ 12million to be
        usedby GO1for direct support on a grant basis for investment incommon treatment
        facilities, for which IDBIwould act also act as a lending agent.

        IPPP: US$22.5 millionto MOEFfor the institutional andtechnical assistance
        components; US$0.5 million to IDBI,which would again act as a "Government
        agent" for the financing of pre-investment studies underthe technical assistance
        component; and US$2 million as direct support on a grant basis for the common
       treatment facilities (now identified as Common Effluent Treatment Plants - CETPs),
        also through IDBI.


35




