Page  1
September 28, 2000
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
North Block
New Delhi, 110 001, India
Dear Sir:
Re: Industrial Pollution Prevention Project (Cr. 
2645)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) 
between India (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association) dated November 
21, 1994.  We also refer to the request made through a 
letter dated August 24, 2000, from Mr. V. Jayaraman, Deputy 
Director, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of 
Finance, requesting the Association to utilize three 
million, five hundred thousand United States Dollars 
(US$3,500,000) of the Project savings to finance some 
additional activities.
The Association is pleased to inform you that, after 
due consideration, the DCA is amended to read as follows:
Schedule 2 of the DCA is amended to read as 
follows:
(i)
Part A.1 is amended to read:
“(1)
Training: Training of SPCB staff 
both within and outside the Project 
States 
in technical and managerial skills in the following areas: 
(a) quality 
assurance and quality control of 
laboratory activities; (b) maintenance and 
operation training; (c) specialized technical 
training; and (d) supervisory 
training for 
management of the work of laboratories and for planning and 
implementing pollution control 
strategies.”
(ii)
The following additional activities are 
added to Part A:
(5)
Environmental Information Management: 
(a) Establishment of the basic 
infrastructure for the development of a knowledge-base and 
analytical tools for 
mainstreaming of 
information technology in Project SPCBs through provision 
of 
computer hardware, peripherals, 
software and minor civil works; (b) Provision of 
technical assistance for the development of 
Management Information Systems (MIS) and 
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) databases and 
associated software applications; 
and (c) 
Provision of training to staff at Project SPCBs on the use 
of the software 
applications developed and on 
mechanisms for the exchange of information; and 
(6)
Environmental Outreach Programs: 
Provision of technical assistance and 
equipment to support environmental outreach programs in the 
Project SPCBs.”
Page  2
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other 
provisions of the DCA remain in full force and effect.  
Upon receipt of the original copy of this amendment letter 
duly countersigned by the representative of the Borrower, 
the above amendments shall become effective as of the date 
of countersignature of this amendment letter.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the 
amendments set out above by countersigning the form of 
confirmation set forth below and returning to the 
Association one fully signed original of the amendment 
letter, and retaining one original for each of your 
records.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joelle Chassard 
for Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
INDIA:
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore
Additional Secretary
Ministry of Finance
