Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2645 IN
                       Development Credit Agreement
                 (Industrial Pollution Prevention Project)
                                  between
                                   India
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated November 21, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 3645 IN
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 1994, between INDIA (the Borrower),
acting by its President, and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
(ICICI) has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) to provide assistance towards the financing of Part
B(1) of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and ICICI (the ICICI Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000) (the ICICI Loan);
      (C)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (the ICICI Guarantee Agreement), the Borrower is agreeing to
guarantee the obligations of ICICI in respect of the ICICI Loan and to
undertake such other obligations as are set forth in the ICICI Guarantee
Agreement;
      (D)   the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) has also
Page  2
requested the Bank to provide assistance towards the financing of Parts
B(1), B(2) and C(3) of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and IDBI (the IDBI Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
ninety-three million dollars ($93,000,000) (the IDBI Loan);
      (E)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (the IDBI Guarantee Agreement), the Borrower is agreeing to
guarantee the obligations of IDBI in respect of the IDBI Loan and to
undertake such other obligations as set forth in the IDBI Guarantee
Agreement; and
      (F)   Parts A, C(1), C(2) and C(4) of the Project will be carried out
by the Borrower, Part B(1) of the Project will be carried out by ICICI and
IDBI and Parts B(2) and C(3) of the Project will be carried out by IDBI with
the assistance of the Borrower; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the ICICI Loan
Agreement, the ICICI Guarantee Agreement, the IDBI Loan Agreement and the
IDBI Guarantee Agreement respectively;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CPCB" means the Central Pollution Control Board of the Borrower
and includes any successor or successors thereto;
      (b)   "Grant" means the grant provided by the Borrower to IDBI
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) hereof;
      (c)   "ICICI Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the
"General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the
Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the ICICI Guarantee Agreement;
      (d)   "ICICI Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between ICICI and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the ICICI Loan Agreement;
      (e)   "IDBI Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the
"General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single
Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated February 9, 1993, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the IDBI
Guarantee Agreement;
      (f)   "IDBI Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between IDBI and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank,
dated February 9, 1993, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the IDBI Loan Agreement;
Page  3
      (g)   "Implementation Cell" means the Implementation Cell established
by the Borrower in its Ministry of Environment and Forests for the purposes
of the Project;
      (h)   "Project State" means Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya
Pradesh or Rajasthan; and "Project States" means these States, collectively;
      (i)   "SPCBs" mean the State Pollution Control Boards of the Project
States;
      (j)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into by the Borrower and the IDBI pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) hereof;
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) hereof;
      (l)   "Steering Committee" means the Steering Committee established
by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project; and
      (m)   "Sub-grant", as the context permits, means a sub-grant made or
proposed to be made by IDBI out of the proceeds of the Grant to an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project under Part B (2) and C(3)
of the Project.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Parts A and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-Grant to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project
under Part B (2) of the Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Credit Account is requested.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
Page  4
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15,
2004 and ending June 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on June 15, 2014 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-
1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project through the Project
States, Part B(2) through IDBI and Parts C(1), C(2) and C(4) of the Project,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and environmental practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall pass on one million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,800,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to
IDBI as a grant pursuant to a Subsidiary Grant Agreement with IDBI, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the purposes of making
Sub-grants under Parts B(2) and C(3) of the Project.
      (c)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause IDBI to perform
all its obligations set forth in the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, take or
cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable IDBI to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
Page  5
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, Parts A,
C(1), C(2) and C(4) of the Project and cause IDBI to carry out Parts B(2)
and C(3) of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the CPCB, Project States, SPCBs
and any State of the Borrower in which any part of the Project is carried
out, to undertake all actions necessary for the implementation of the
Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing prin- ciples consistently applied,
                  by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
Page  6
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   IDBI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that IDBI will be able to perform its
obligations under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CPCB or any
SPCB or for the suspension of their operations.
      (d)   The Subsidiary Grant Agreement shall have been amended,
cancelled or terminated or the Steering Committee or Implementation Cell
shall have been disbanded so as to affect materially and adversely the
implementation of the Project.
      (e)   Any event specified in Section 5.02 of the ICICI Loan Agreement
or Section 5.02 of the IDBI Loan Agreement shall occur.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and IDBI;
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ICICI Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness
of this Agreement; and
      (c)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDBI Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly executed by IDBI
and is legally binding upon IDBI in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Page  7
Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of
              India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                  New Delhi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  INDIA
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                  Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                  Acting Regional Vice President
                  South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                90%
Page  8
    Part A                       700,000
    Part B(2)                  1,400,000
(2) Equipment:                                  100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
    Part A                    11,000,000        100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
    Part C                     1,400,000        of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3) Consultants'                                100%
    services, fees
    (including
    royalty) and
    training:
    Part A                     2,100,000
    Part C                     1,100,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                17,700,000
                              ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, and (b) a Sub-grant unless the Sub-grant has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to the IDBI Loan Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a)
goods and works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent; and (b)
services and training under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for
employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of
individual consultants respectively, all under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The main objective of the Project is to promote cost-effective pollution
abatement and, in particular, to strengthen the institu- tional capacity of
the Borrower and the SPCBs in four States; facilitate priority investments
in clean technologies, waste minimization and resource recovery as well as
pollution control; and promote the development, diffusion and transfer of
technologies with environmental benefits for the industrial sector of the
Borrower.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development
Page  9
    Strengthening of SPCBs in the Project States in order to enhance their
technical, institutional, monitoring and enforcement capabilities through:
(1)       Training: Training of SPCB staff in technical and managerial
skills in the following areas: (a) quality assurance and quality control of
laboratory activities; (b) maintenance and operation training; (c)
specialized technical training; and (d) supervisory training for management
of the work of laboratories and for planning and implementing pollution
control strategies.
(2)       Equipment: Improvement in analytical and monitoring equipment for
central laboratories in each Project State as well as for smaller regional
laboratories.
(3)       Laboratory Facilities: Refurbishing laboratory facilities
including upgrading existing facilities, and the provision of additional
space and infrastructure.
(4)       Geographical Information System: Establishment of a pilot phase
of a Geographical Information System at the Gujarat State Pollution Control
Board to assist in the monitoring and tracking of toxic residue.
Part B:   Investments
    Provision of credit to individual firms for pollution abatement with
focus on waste minimization and adoption of cleaner methods of production
consisting of the following:
(1)       Individual Treatment Facilities: Undertaking of Investment
Projects relating to the designing and implementation of waste minimization,
resource recovery and pollution abatement schemes by individual enterprises
in targeted sectors.
(2)       Common Treatment Facilities: (a) Undertaking of Investment
Projects for establishing common effluent treatment facilities for the
treatment of wastewater, solid waste and gaseous emissions generated by
small scale industries at industrial estates and other sites; (b)
establishment or strengthening of municipal wastewater recycling facilities
providing water to industries, owned, operated and maintained on a
commercial basis by companies fully responsible and liable for the operation
of such units; and (c) carrying out of such studies as may be required for
the location, design, and implementation of common treatment facilities.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
(1)       Establishment of a "clean technology institutional network"
designed to promote the development, diffusion and transfer of technologies
with environmental benefits for the industrial sector.
(2)       Identification of appropriate waste minimization and abatement
methods for small scale industry, and the organization of waste minimization
circles.
(3)       Carrying out feasibility and pre-investment studies for CETPs,
IWRPs and other facilities to be financed under Part B of the Project.
(4)       Provision of training and consultants' services to assist the
Borrower's Ministry of Environment and Forests.
                            *       *        *
    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
Page  10
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  (a)   Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, items or groups
of items for equipment under Parts A and C of the Project, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or less but more than $50,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,400,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
    (b)   Items or groups of items for equipment under Parts A and C of the
Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,900,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.  Civil works under Part A of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.  Equipment and civil works under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less per contract, may be procured at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such
as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the equipment and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the
case of civil works, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2
(i) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
Page  11
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall ensure that the SPCBs have adequate office and
laboratory facilities to properly operate and maintain equipment supplied
to them under the Project.
2.  The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee and the
Implementation Cell in its Ministry of Environment and Forests, with
adequate staff, resources and facilities and provide requisite assistance
to them to carry out their functions properly.
3.  The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1994, set up a task force,
acceptable to the Association, to carry out further analysis of market-based
instruments for pollution abatement, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association; and shall, thereafter, discuss with the Association
steps for the implementation of such program.
4.        The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1994, establish general
Page  12
indicators, satisfactory to the Association, to measure implementation of
the Project, including compliance of the industrial sector with applicable
regulations as well as emission of key pollutants.
5.  The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1995, prepare an action plan,
satisfactory to the Association, for institutional strengthening of the SPCB
of each Project State.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Page  13
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
