Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3779 IN
                            IDBI Loan Agreement
                 (Industrial Pollution Prevention Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
                          Dated November 21, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3779 IN
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 1994, between INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
BANK OF INDIA (Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) India (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement as hereinafter defined, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and
the Bank (the IDBI Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor is agreeing to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to
undertake such other obligations as are set forth in the IDBI Guarantee
Agreement;
      (C)   the Guarantor has requested the International Development
Association (the Association) to provide assistance towards the financing
of Parts A, B(2) and C of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to seventeen million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,700,000) (the Credit);
      (D)   The Guarantor will make available to the Borrower a part of the
Page  2
proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agreement for
the purposes of carrying out Part B(2) of the Project;
      (E)   the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
(ICICI) has also requested the Bank to provide assistance towards the
financing of Part B(1) of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and ICICI (the ICICI Loan Agreement), the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) (the ICICI Loan);
      (F)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and
the Bank (the ICICI Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor is agreeing to
guarantee the obligations of ICICI in respect of the ICICI Loan and to
undertake such other obligations as are set forth in the ICICI Guarantee
Agreement; and
      (G)   Parts A, C(1), C(2) and C(4) of the Project will be carried out
by the Guarantor, Part B(1) of the Project will be carried out by ICICI and
the Borrower and Parts B(2) and C(3) of the Project will be carried out by
the Borrower with the assistance of the Guarantor; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Development Credit
Agreement, the IDBI Guarantee Agreement, the ICICI Loan Agreement and the
ICICI Guarantee Agreement respectively;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated February 9, 1993,
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Preamble to this Agreement, the General Conditions and the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Charter" means the Industrial Development Bank of India Act,
1964 (Act 18 of 1964) of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Association for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the
Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;
      (c)   "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which
qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
2(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (d)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan and/or a Sub-grant;
      (e)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing a Sub-loan and/or a Sub-
grant;
      (f)   "Sub-grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower out of the Credit to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project under Part B(2) of the Project;
      (g)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower, and reimbursed from or financed by the Loan, to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project under Part B(1) of the Project;
Page  3
      (h)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Guarantor and the Borrower, as the same may be amended from
time to time, pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02(b) hereof;
      (j)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and
investment policy of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
and
      (k)   "rupees" or "Rs." means the currency of the Guarantor.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
ninety-three million dollars ($93,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by
the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise
under a Sub-loan under Part B(1) and Part B(2) and a Sub-grant under Part
B(2) of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from
the Loan Account is requested.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in (i) a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment; or (ii) in the Reserve
Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2001, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to Single Currency LIBOR, plus one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus or minus the Average Margin as provided in
paragraph (b) (iv) below.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
                  including the date of this Agreement to but not including
                  the first Interest Payment Date and thereafter the period
                  from and including any Interest Payment Date to but not
                  including the next Interest Payment Date.
           (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
          (iii)   "Single Currency LIBOR" means the London interbank
                  offered rate for dollar, expressed as a percentage per
                  annum, reasonably determined by the Bank in accordance
                  with Schedule 7 to this Agreement for the January 15 or
                  July 15 on which an Interest Period commences (or, for
                  the initial Interest Period, the January 15 or July 15
                  preceding the date of this Agreement or on which such
Page  4
                  Interest Period commences).
           (iv)   "Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period, the
                  weighted average margin, for the Semester preceding the
                  relevant January 15 or July 15, between: (A) the cost of
                  the outstanding borrowings of the Bank or portions
                  thereof allocated to the funding of single currency loans
                  in all currencies, and (B) the specific London and, for
                  French francs, Paris interbank offered rates or other
                  such reference rates attributable to such borrowings in
                  each such currency, all as reasonably determined by the
                  Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. For any
                  Interest Period in which (A) exceeds (B), the Average
                  Margin shall be added under paragraph (a) above. For any
                  Interest Period in which (B) exceeds (A), the Average
                  Margin shall be subtracted under paragraph (a) above.
            (v)   "Semester" means the first six months or second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (c)   After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency LIBOR and
the Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall promptly notify
the Guarantor and the Borrower of such determination.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15
and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B(1), B(2) and C(3) of
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Charter and the Statement of Policy.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Sub-loans and Sub-grants will be made in accordance with
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall pass on the proceeds of the Credit provided
to it under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement as Sub-grants for Investment
Projects under Parts B(2) and C(3) of the Project in accordance with terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including those set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (d)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall perform all its
obligations set forth in the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
Page  5
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each
Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, its accounts and financial statements (balance
                  sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
                  statements) and records and accounts for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
                  sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case
                  not later than nine months after the end of each such
                  year: (A) certified copies of said financial statements
                  for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
                  said records, accounts and financial statements and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, or cause to be retained by sub-borrowers under
                  terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, until at
                  least one year after the Bank has received the audit
                  report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                  from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain on the average a Risk-
Based Capital Adequacy Ratio satisfactory to the Bank.
      (b)   For purposes of this Section the term "Risk-Based Capital
Adequacy Ratio" means the ratio calculated according to criteria and methods
satisfactory to the Bank.
      (c)   In the event the Reserve Bank of India, or any other regulatory
or supervising entity or agency shall enact regulations prescribing a higher
level of capital for banks or financial institutions than that required by
the Bank pursuant to  sub-section (a) of this Section, any non-compliance
by the Borrower with such regulations shall be deemed to constitute non-
compliance with the provisions of this Section.
      Section 4.04. The Bank and the Borrower shall, from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their representatives
Page  6
with regard to the operations and financial condition of the Borrower and
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the operations and financial condition
of the Borrower.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or its
ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the
Borrower or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of
India and the Borrower;
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ICICI Loan
Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled; and
      (c)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its
terms.
      Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Chairman and Managing Director or any Excutive
Director of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
Page  7
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For the Borrower:
            Industrial Development Bank of India
            IDBI Tower, Cuffe Parade
            Colaba, Bombay 400 005
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDBANK IN                 118-2193
                  Bombay                     118-4812
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                  Acting Regional Vice President
                  South Asia
                  INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                  Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated           % of
                                 (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1)     Goods, works              75,000,000        100% of foreign
    and services                                    expenditures
    under Part B(1)                                 75% of local
                                                    expenditures
(2)     Goods, works              18,000,000        100% of foreign
    and services                                    expenditures
    under Part B(2)                                 80% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                  __________
Page  8
        TOTAL                     93,000,000
                                  ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Guarantor; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made:
      (a)   in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (b)   in respect of expenditures financed by the Borrower under rupee
Sub-loans unless such expenditures shall already have been financed out of
the Borrower's local currency resources; and
      (c)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods and
works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent; and (b) services
and training under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for
employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of
individual consultants respectively, all under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                           Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
 Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 2000                                2,355,000
July 15, 2000                                   2,395,000
January 15, 2001                                2,440,000
July 15, 2001                                   2,485,000
January 15, 2002                                2,530,000
July 15, 2002                                   2,580,000
January 15, 2003                                2,625.000
July 15, 2003                                   2,675,000
January 15, 2004                                2,720,000
July 15, 2004                                   2,770,000
January 15, 2005                                2,820,000
July 15, 2005                                   2,875,000
January 15, 2006                                2,925,000
July 15, 2006                                   2,980,000
January 15, 2007                                3,035,000
July 15, 2007                                   3,090,000
January 15, 2008                                3,145,000
July 15, 2008                                   3,205,000
January 15, 2009                                3,265,000
July 15, 2009                                   3,325,000
January 15, 2010                                3,385,000
July 15, 2010                                   3,445,000
January 15, 2011                                3,510,000
July 15, 2011                                   3,570,000
January 15, 2012                                3,640,000
July 15, 2012                                   3,705,000
January 15, 2013                                3,770,000
July 15, 2013                                   3,840,000
Page  9
January 15, 2014                                3,910,000
July 15, 2014                                   3,985,000
___________________
*     The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
      repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
      Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                  Modifications of the General Conditions
    For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows: the words "the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,
such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of Section
6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
          "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 4
    to this Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the
    Loan; (i) have received no applications or requests under subparagraphs
    (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications
    or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor,
    terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
    requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may
    be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving
    of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                                SCHEDULE 4
                 Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
             of Sub-loans, Sub-grants and Investment Projects
1.  (a)   Sub-loans: Terms and conditions of Sub-loans shall include the
following:
          (i)   onlending rates to Investment Enterprises shall be
                determined by the Borrower based on market conditions and
                its lending policies and set at levels not lower than
                prevailing minimum lending rates; and
         (ii)   repayment terms of Sub-loans shall not exceed 10 years,
                inclusive of up to 2 years of grace.
    (b)   Sub-grants: Sub-grants shall only be made for Investment Projects
under Part B.2 of the Project.
    (c)   Investment Projects: All Investment Projects shall satisfy the
following eligibility criteria:
          (i)   Investment Projects shall be of heavily polluting
                industries as defined by the Guarantor's Ministry of
                Environment and Forests;
         (ii)   Investment Projects shall have a substantial positive
                effect on the environment and shall meet the environmental
                standards prescribed for the concerned industry;
        (iii)   Investment Projects shall include a statement, identifying
                the nature of the environmental problem to be addressed and
                the positive impacts of the actions proposed;
         (iv)   Investment Projects shall obtain statutory clearances, if
                any are required, from environmental authorities;
          (v)   when examining Investment Projects that seek to control
                similar pollutants, priority shall be given to the most
                cost-effective approach; and
Page  10
         (vi)   to the extent practicable, and subject to commercial
                considerations, the Borrower shall consider for financing
                Investment Projects which incorporate replicable and
                innovative approaches with a demonstration effect.
    (d)   Investment Projects shall, in addition, satisfy the following
financial and operational conditions:
          (i)   the sponsoring Investment Enterprises shall   meet
                acceptable financial benchmarks with respect to debt-equity
                ratio, debt-service coverage, and liquidity ratio;
         (ii)   Investment Projects shall be appraised by the Borrower,
                including sub-sector level analysis when deemed necessary,
                and shall meet appropriate tests of financial and economic
                feasibility;
        (iii)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, for any single
                Investment Enterprise, no sub-loan or combination of sub-
                loans shall exceed US$5 million; and
          (iv)  the concerned sub-borrower shall contribute, out of its own
                resources, a minimum of 25% of the cost of an Investment
                Project under Part B(1) and a minimum of 20% of the cost of
                an Investment Project under Part B(2) of the Project.
    (e)   Common Treatment Facilities under Part B(2) of the Project:
Investment Projects under Part B(2) of the Project shall comply with the
following criteria:
          (i)   a thorough survey of the effluent at the site shall have
                been undertaken and provisions shall have been made for
                adequate pre-treatment or disposal of effluents not
                suitable for common treatment;
         (ii)   a feasibility study shall have been conducted, the economic
                and financial viability of the Investment Project shall
                have been established and operating and maintenance costs
                shall have been estimated;
        (iii)   an adequate sponsor shall have been constituted or
                identified with institutional and technical capability to
                manage, operate and maintain the facility;
         (iv)   legal and financial responsibilities shall have been
                properly defined and the facility owner shall be liable to
                the enforcement agencies for the quality of the common
                effluent after treatment; and
          (v)   adequate cost formulae shall have been adopted with
                associated mechanisms for cost sharing or fee structures
                from individual Investment Enterprises.
2.  No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project
shall be eligible for Loan financing unless:
    (a)   the Sub-loan or Sub-grant for such Investment Project shall have
been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than six months prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the application and information required under paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan or Sub-grant; or
    (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-
limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than six
months prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request
and information required under paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect
of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-
limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount
to be financed under the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $3,000,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed under the Loan or of any other loan, provided for in any
Page  11
outstanding loan agreement between the Bank and the Borrower or the
Guarantor entered into before the date of this Agreement, which have been
or are being used for financing goods and services directly and materially
related to such Investment Project.
3.  (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to
the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a
description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
under the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
    (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain (i)
a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
under the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.
    (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of sub-
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on
or before March 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall specify.
4.  Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by
written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan the right to:
    (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records;
    (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if
the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and
any relevant records and documents;
    (d)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and
(ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed under the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
    (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
    (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
financing under the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  12
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Equipment and civil works under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract, may be procured by sub-
borrowers at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
equipment and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of civil works, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Page  13
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed under the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of
paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures
to be financed by free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special
Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as
eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such
withdrawals; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to$5,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
Page  14
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  15
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                    Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1.  Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the offered rate
for deposits in dollars for a period of six months which appears on the
display designated as page "3750" on the Telerate monitor (or such other
page or service as may replace it for the purpose of displaying London
interbank offered rates of major banks for dollar deposits), as of 11:00
a.m. (London time) on the second day on which banks and foreign exchange
markets are open for business in London prior to the relevant January 15 or
July 15 (the Interest Determination Date).
2.  If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on such service
as may replace it, the Bank shall request the London offices of four major
banks to provide the Bank with the rate at which deposits in dollars are
offered by such banks on the Interest Determination Date to leading banks
in the London interbank market for a period of six months ending on the last
day of such Interest Period. Single Currency LIBOR for such Interest Period
shall be the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth
decimal place) of such offered quotations as determined by the Bank.
3.  If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such quotations
under paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be arithmetic mean
(rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal place) determined by the
Bank of the rates quoted by at least two major banks in New York City
selected by the Bank on the Interest Determination Date for loans in dollars
to leading European banks for a period of six months ending on the last day
of such Interest Period. If fewer than two of the banks so selected are
quoting such rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the single currency LIBOR
in effect for the last preceding Interest Period.
