Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16604
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL FREE ZONE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3033 - DO)
May 20, 1997
Public Sector Modernization, Private Sector Development
and Energy Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dominican Peso (RD$)
US$1.00  RD$ 6.3 (October 1988)
US$ 1.00  RD$ 6.3 (December 1989)
US$ 1.00 =RD$ 11.2 (December 1990)
US$1.00  RD$ 12.5 (December 1991)
US$ 1.00  RD$ 12.5 (December 1992)
US$1.00  RD$ 12.6 (December 1993)
US$ 1.00  RD$ 13.0 (December 1994)
US$1.00  RD$ 13.2 (December 1995)
US$1.00  RD$ 13.6 (December 1996)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBI                 -     Caribbean Basin Initiative
CNZF                -     Consejo Nacional de Zonas Francas
(National Council of Free Zones)
CPI                 -     Consejo Promotor de Inversiones Extranjeras
(Foreign Investment Promotion Council)
FIDE                -     Fondo de Inversiones para el Desarrollo
Econ6mico - Banco Central
(Investment Fund for Economic Development -
Central Bank)
DEFINPRO            -     Departamento de Financiaci6n de Proyectos -
Banco Central - Absorbed FIDE in 1996
(Central Bank - Project Finance Department)
IFZ                 -     Industrial Free Zone
NAFTA               -     North American Free Trade Agreement
STP                 -     Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia
Presidential Technical Secretariat
USAID               -     U.S. Agency for International Development
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki      Division Chief Krishna Challa
Director:      Paul Isenman             Staff:        Christopher Barham



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE                                                                        . i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................i..
Introduction and Objectives .............................                 ii
Implementation Experience and Results ........................... ii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned ...................... iv
PART I - PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................. 1
A.    BACKGROUND AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                   1
Background            ..1.... .,,........
Project Objectives                       ..2
IFZ Investment                       ..2
Technical Assistance                   ..2
Evaluation of Objectives                   ..3
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES. .                                 3
C.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT                   ..4
Implementation ...........,.4
Major Factors Affecting Project                ..5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                             .         .         6
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE                                                      6
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                               . . 7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                 . . 7
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS                               .           . 8
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                              . . 8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...................................................  10
APPEN D ICES                                      .................................................... 24
APPENDIX A: ICR Mission Aide Memoire .............................................. 24
APPENDIX B: Project-Financed Technical Assistance Studies ............................. 25
APPENDIX     C:    M ap  ..............................................  28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL FREE ZONE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3033 - DO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Free Zone
Development Project in the Dominican Republic for which Loan 3033 - DO in the amount of
US$ 30.0 million equivalent was approved on March 30, 1989 and made effective on April 6,
1990.
The Loan was closed on January 3, 1997, thirty months after the original closing date of
June 30, 1994. Final disbursement took place on January 3, 1997. A total of US$2,126,536 was
canceled; US$2,100,000 effective June 28, 1996 and US$26,536 effective January 3, 1997.
Cofinancing was provided through Japanese Grant Facility financing of Yen 167,500,000, under
Grant Agreement No.TF027380 of December 4, 1989. The Japanese Grant was closed on June
30, 1995, one year after the original closing date, and a total of Yen 9,040,005 was canceled.
This ICR was prepared by Christopher J. Barham of the Public Sector Modernization,
Private Sector Development and Energy Division of Department III of the Latin American and
Caribbean Region, with the assistance of Manuel Lasaga, Carmen Machicado, and Thomas F.
McCarthy, Consultants. Sharon Spriggs and Isabelle Kim assisted with document production.
The Report was reviewed by Krishna Challa, Division Chief, and Robert Crown, Project Advisor.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
September 1996. The Report is based on material in LAC project files. The Borrower contributed
to the preparation of the ICR by fumishing Project data to the Bank ICR mission, and by
providing its own comments on the Project, which are included in the Project File owing to
length.






ii
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL FREE ZONE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3033 - DO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION and OBJECTIVES
I.    The Industrial Free Zone Development Project was the first Bank operation in the
industrial sector in the Dominican Republic. The Project was a straightforward investment
undertaking that resulted -- albeit more slowly than anticipated -- in the satisfactory achievement
of all of its basic objectives:
a.    Project financing was used to assist in infrastructure development and in the
construction of about 125 factory building shells and office facilities in thirteen privately -
owned Industrial Free Zones (IFZ), and for machinery and processing equipment
purchases by six IFZ manufacturing companies;
b.    The private sector firms that already have rented space and invested in export
processing ventures in these new IFZ's are providing about 33 thousand new jobs, largely
for low-income, primarily female workers, and have increased net export earnings by
about $52 million per year; and
c.    Technical assistance was used to build project management capabilities, strengthen
sector institutions, and streamline IFZ loan application review procedures. A series of
sector studies increased understanding of the requLrements for IFZ growth in an
increasingly competitive trading environment. Planned efforts to define a policy
framework for developing "backward-linkages" with other sectors of the economy did
not go forward because the proposed executing agency was wound up.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
2.    The Project's credit component, financed by the Loan, was implemented through the
Investment Fund for Economic Development (FIDE), the Central Bank's industrial development
lending window, with onlending through nine private commercial banks. FIDE (now DEFINPRO)
was and remains the principal domestic source of long-term investment credit in the Republic. The



iii
technical assistance component, financed by the Grant, was administered through the Presidency's
Technical Secretariat (STP) for the benefit of FIDE, the National Council of Free Zones (CNZF),
and the Foreign Investment Promotion Council (CPI). The CNZF, a Secretariat of Industry and
Commerce entity with public and private sector membership acts as the principal advisory body
on IFZ matters, including the review of investment proposals and the allocation and monitoring of
textile quotas. The CPI was founded with bilateral support as a primarily private sector advocate
of policy change to promote industrial investment.
3.    The need for long-term financing for additional Industrial Free Zone (IFZ) development
was confirmed during preparation and appraisal. The Project design assumed that Dominican
commercial banks would be able to channel FIDE project financing as well as domestic resources
to IFZ investors. In the event, the Project got off to a very slow start because individual
commercial banks did not in fact have the capital resources or experience to finance projects of
the scale required in IFZs, but also because of uncertain economic conditions. This lack of full
understanding of financial sector weaknesses was a major Project shortcoming.
4.    Eventually, syndication "pool" mechanisms were created to support commercial bank
lending. IFZ investment proposal review procedures in FIDE and the CNZF also were
streamlined. FIDE learned progressively about Bank loan management and reporting
requirements. Most IFZ development then went well until about 1991, when there was a modest
slowdown because of uncertainties about the impact of NAFTA and other regional economic
changes. In response, the Loan was extended twice, for a total of 30 months to permit
disbursement of committed funds. The Grant also was extended for twelve months to allow the
use of dollar savings to finance additional technical assistance. This extension was particularly
fortuitous because it permitted very timely studies of the impact of NAFTA and other initially
unforeseen changes in the trade environment on Dominican competitiveness.
5.    Project costs and financing arrangements conformed well with SAR estimates. The Project
supported about US$ 53.3 million in recorded new investment (principally for site development
infrastructure and construction of factory buildings), compared to the original estimate of
US$49.6 million. The Bank loan financed US$27.9 million or 52% of this total, US$2.1 million
less than planned. The Central Bank provided US$3.7 million (7%) and private commercial banks
about US$2.0 million (4%), broadly in line with SAR estimates. Private investors financed the
balance, at least US$19.7 million (36%) according to FIDE records and some US$5.0 million
more than originally estimated. Actual owner equity investments were even higher because
property was often acquired and infrastructure work begun before IFZ proposals were submitted.
6.    It is too early for definitive estimates of the retums to project-financed investments
because industrial parks typically require up to 15 years for full development. However, a study
carried out during the preparation of this ICR of six typical IFZ investments representing nearly
60% of Project costs showed rates of return ranging from 12% to over 25%, and estimated the
overall weighted economic rate of return for these subprojects at 17.7%. This exceeds the 12%
hurdle rate established at appraisal. This fact, combined with the positive impact on institutional



iv
performance engendered by the technical assistance programs supported by the Project
(paragraph 1), implies that the Project merits a "satisfactory" rating. However, the sustainability
of Project impacts will depend upon the continued drive for industrial competitiveness in the
Dominican Republic, as well as availability of financing for operating and longer-term IFZ needs;
and that will depend on the health of the country's financial system.
7.    FIDE and the CNZF performed well, particularly with regard to senior management.
continuity. DEFINPRO continues to promote and finance IFZ and other industrial sector
development, depending primarily on official development credit for its programs. The CPI was
wound up shortly after its bilateral funding ended.
8.    Loan supervision was adequate and timely. Bank staff worked proactively to help adapt
Project parameters to changing market conditions and client needs, strengthen implementing
agencies, and productively use Grant funds for consulting services and studies. However, a
secondary Project goal included improving environmental monitoring and evaluation, and at least
one explicit Bank supervision mission to assess the Project's environmental impacts would have
been useful.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS,
AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
9.    The Project merits "satisfactory" ratings with regard to the achievement of its
fundamental objectives. However, the lack of full appreciation of the opportunity to address
financial sector shortcomings undermined the timely achievement of the Project's
accomplishments. Project activities were further hampered by inadequate implementation planning
and training, and by a lack of monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. However, in its role as an
indirect creditor, DEFINPRO will continue to monitor the financial performance of beneficiaries
under the credit program.
10.   The long-term sustainability and profitability of Project investments will depend heavily
on macro-economic reforms including the modernization of the financial system and trade regime.
Such reforms were urged at the Project's inception and were most recently recommended in a
May 1995 Bank Report, entitled, "The Dominican Republic - Growth with Equity: An Agenda
for Reform". These recommendations are now under discussion with the admninistration that
assumed office in 1996. The Bank would not undertake future industrial sector operations without
such changes.
11.   Key lessons learned include: (a) validation of the soundness of current Bank policies
concerning the need for strong financial sector management as a pre-condition for investment
credit operations; (b) the need for improved industrial sector policies to underpin Project



v
sustainability; and (c) the need for effective project management planning, including the use of
monitoring and evaluation systems, to support smooth implementation and maximize the potential
institutional impacts of a Project. Such implementation planning and capacity-building is
particularly important in the Dominican Republic, where relatively few Bank operations have been
implemented historically and Bank procedures remain unfamiliar.



PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A: BACKGROUND AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    The Dominican Republic had successfully promoted export processing industries ever
since the Gulf and Western Corporation established the first Industrial Free Zone (IFZ) in 1969.
Dominican IFZs quickly came to figure among the most competitive in the Caribbean.
Entrepreneurs had become skilled in the management of IFZs and had established their credibility
with U.S. and other international firms involved in off-shore manufacturing. By the late-1980's,
thirteen IFZs were in operation, principally for garment assembly. The number of manufacturers
had risen from two in 1970 to about 210 in 1988. Direct employment had reached about 80,000
people. Annual net export earnings amounted to US$96.0 million. In the meantime, domestic
industry was protected and inefficient -- hamstrung by poor economic policies, a weak financial
system, and a lack of efficient infrastructure.
2.    Problems existed. In particular, Dominican banks -- almost universally small and only
loosely regulated -- provided essentially no medium or long-term financing. As a result IFZ
investments usually had to be financed through a difficult mix of owner equity, cash flow from
rental income (large advance rental payments were often required), and official development
credit. Loan application processes were cumbersome and uncertain, and final decision making
often less than transparent. Other problems included overburdened electricity supplies, a high cost
trucking industry, port congestion and pilferage, localized labor shortages, and an acute scarcity
of middle management skills. Customs bottlenecks were persistent.
3.    Nevertheless, prospects for continued growth appeared good, especially with the passage
of the Caribbean Basin Initiative, the opening of other preferential markets in Europe and Canada,
the continued general cost competitiveness of Dominican processing zones, the skills of IFZ
managers, and the country's good communications and air transport facilities.
4.    The Government had gradually developed most of the elements of a supportive
institutional framework for the sector. A consolidated IFZ law was pending approval when the
Project was prepared. A National Council of Free Zones ("Zonas Francas") (CNZF) worked
under the auspices of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to bring public and private sector
actors together as a decision making support agency for the Government. The CNZF
recommended and monitored compliance with textile quota allocations, evaluated proposals for
new IFZ investments, and proposed actions to promote the growth of IFZs. A quasi-private



2
Center for Investment Promotion (CPI) had recently been founded with USAID support. It had a
mandate to improve the policy environment and investment regime for industrial sector growth in
general, in part by helping create "backward linkages" that would build on IFZ success to
promote wider industrial development. The Central Bank had established an Investment Fund for
Economic Development (FIDE) as its "window" for channeling official assistance to, inter alia,
IFZ development. (FIDE was transformed into the Department of Project Finance -- DEFINPRO
-- in 1996.) FIDE/DEFINPRO was and remains the principal source of long-term investment
credit in the Republic.
5.    Government and the Bank agreed to meet pressing financing long-term needs in the
dynamic IFZ sector, while expecting to work more slowly toward fundamental, national economic
reforms. It was a pragmatic, albeit explicitly "second best" approach.
Project Objectives
6.    Project objectives were straightforward: (a) provide long-term financing for new
investment in IFZs, (b) increase IFZ sector employment and export earnings, and (c) strengthen
sector policies and institutions, including environmental monitoring capabilities. These objectives
were to be pursued through investment and technical assistance components.
IFZ Investment
7.    The US$51.0 million Project budget initially notionally earmarked US$9.5 million for
basic infrastructure development in about twelve new IFZs. Another US$40.1 million was
notionally budgeted for the actual construction of manufacturing and warehouse buildings and
office space for rental in IFZs. Over the course of the Project, this component was modified to
include financing of up to US$4.0 million for machinery and other equipment, with the goal of
increasing local participation in manufacturing and processing operations in the IFZs. FIDE acted
as the implementing agency for the credit component of the Loan.
Technical Assistance
8.    Technical assistance, financed through a Japanese Grant Facility of Yen 167,500,000,
aimed at helping FIDE build its project management and monitoring and evaluation capabilities,
and at strengthening the sector management and policy formulation capabilities of the CNZF and
the CPI (including the purchase of office equipment and computers). Major sector studies also



3
were planned, including one aimed at a rationalization of the IFZ policy environment and another
at improving the legal framework for IFZ development. The CPI was expected to oversee policy-
focused studies aimed at creating "backward linkages" between the export-oriented IFZs and the
traditionally protected industrial sectors, and at improving the overall environment for IFZ
development. The Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (STP) administered technical assistance
work financed through the Japanese Grant Facility.
Evaluation of Objectives
9.    The Project's investment objectives -- IFZ infrastructure and export processing facilities
development -- were appropriate to country and sector needs, and also reflective of Bank lending
priorities at the time. However, the Project design, with its dependence on an array of small
banks for sub-loan management, did not reflect a realistic appraisal of the weaknesses of the
country's banking system, all but ensuring delayed implementation of Project activities.
10.   Technical assistance objectives responded to reasonable concerns about the sector's
strategic long-term development prospects, specific problem areas, and the weakness of sector
institutions. However, no project management or monitoring and evaluation plans were developed
during preparation to assure that Project-financed studies went forward as a coherent and inter-
related set of tasks. It was well into the project period before implementing agencies began -- with
a strong dose of Bank supervision assistance -- to strengthen their abilities to manage this
assistance and make effective use of sector studies and other consultant outputs.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   All of the Project's important objectives were achieved. Project financing assisted the
development of thirteen IFZ development projects. In an innovative departure from the Project's
original limited objectives, additional sub-loans provided credit for the purchase of manufacturing
and processing equipment to six Dominican export firms operating in the IFZs.
12.   The project created about 33 thousand new jobs, primarily for low-income, usually female
workers. Net export earnings were increased by US$52 million per year.
13.  All told, the Project resulted in about US$53.3 million in new IFZ development, resulting
in the establishment of thirteen privately-owned IFZs with over 125 manufacturing buildings.
US$27.9 million was financed directly through the Loan (52% of the total), US$3.7 million with
Central Bank resources (7%), and US$2.0 million by the participating commercial banks (4%).
FIDE recorded equity capital investments of US$19.7 million (36%). While indicative of Project
achievements, FIDE figures in fact understate the total value of investments. Equity investment in



4
particular is under-estimated, because much unrecorded site development work went ahead before
the Loan became effective. These estimates also do not capture IFZ investments that will be
financed from future rental income. And they do not include major investments by IFZ tenants in
machinery and processing equipment.
14.   As would be expected of investments with long gestation periods, none of the IFZ
projects had reached full development at Loan closing. Nevertheless, based upon an analysis of six
IFZs (representing 59% of total investment), the real economic rate of return on investments (net
cash flow before taxes and adjusted for the economic cost of wages) averages 17.7%. This rate
exceeds the 12% hurdle rate established at appraisal and is satisfactory. Rates of return on
individual subprojects range from 12.1% to 26.2%, reflecting variations in the degree of intensity
of site use, and, possibly, the commercial characteristics of the various market segments which the
individual operations serve.
15.   Most technical assistance activities also went well. Internal FIDE and CNFZ management
was strengthened, and essential office equipment and computers purchased. Improvements in
FIDE and CNZF administration, efficiency. and "esprit" were readily apparent by the end of the
Project. With few exceptions, consultants engaged to study IFZ management and policy issues
completed work of practical use to the CNZF and FIDE. Completed technical assistance studies
are summarized in Appendix B.
C: IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation
16.   The Project got off to a cumbersome start. Effectiveness was delayed for a year, during a
period of continual economic stress, including the Gulf War petroleum crisis with its
accompanying adverse foreign exchange impacts and the further disruption of an already weak
banking system. Moreover, FIDE and the STP were unfamiliar with Bank procedures for sub-
loan management, procurement, disbursement, financial management, and record keeping
requirements.
17.   Most crucially, Project planning had incorporated overly-optimistic assumptions about the
ability of Dominican banks to meet IFZ financing needs, given their limited capital base. Only over
time did the commercial banks learn to form and operate syndicated "pools" to meet total
borrower needs. Financial sector problems persisted during and beyond the Loan period. In
particular, regulatory and supervisory arrangements were and remain weak (although improving).
At no time were audit records for participating banks of acceptable quality, owing largely to



5
inadequate accounting standards and practices, the rectification of which would have been well
beyond the scope of the Project.'
18.   Problems caused by the weaknesses of individual banks were aggravated by cumbersome
IFZ investment proposal evaluation procedures, early confusion about requirements for on-
lending Bank funds, and occasional Central Bank reluctance to approve Project lending during
periods of tight monetary control. Despite a solid demand for badly needed loans, early
disbursements were therefore slow. Uncertainty returned near the expected end of the Project,
with questions about the impact of NAFTA on the competitiveness of Dominican IFZs. In the
event, the Project was extended twice, for a total of 30 months. Almost 40% of Project lending
was approved only in 1994 and 1995. As one result of delayed lending, almost no IFZ
infrastructure investment projects were brought fully on stream during the Project period. FIDE
was unable to fully commit Project funds before the extended terminal commitment date, and
US$2.1 million were canceled.
19.   Initial technical assistance work centered on the completion of the CNZF, CPI, and FIDE
studies defined during Project preparation. Planned efforts to strengthen the policy analysis
capabilities of the CPI were abandoned when the Center did not survive a cut in USAID funding.
A proposed CPI study aimed at strengthening linkages with domestic industries was never carried
out under the Project, because USAID had agreed to finance similar work. However, resulting
savings along with additional money that became available with the appreciation of the Japanese
Yen in U.S. dollar terms, were used for an expanded CNZF technical assistance program. This
addressed most of the issues that were to have been studied by the Council as well as sector
changes brought on by NAFTA and the increasingly-competitive international trading
environment.
Major Factors Affecting Project
20.   The international petroleum crisis exacerbated the national economic policy management
problems which led to delaying Loan effectiveness. The weakness of the Dominican financial
sector referred to above was also an important hindering element. The Bank must take a good
part of the responsibility for project management start-up difficulties, the lack of understanding
of Bank procurement and reporting practices, and the absence of effective Project monitoring and
evaluation arrangements. The Government was unwilling to provide budget support for the CPI
after the withdrawal of bilateral funding. Investor uncertainties and delays in some IFZ
development undertakings as NAFTA neared approval clearly were not subject to either
1 Following the approval of this Loan, the Bank attempted to assist the Dominican Republic to strengthen its financial sector
through the preparation of a parallel lending operation aimed at bank restructuring and related capacity building. However,
this operation did not proceed in the absence of firm commitment for action by the Government and difficulties in the broader
dialogue on economic management.



6
Government or Bank control. Government must largely bear the responsibility for the continued
banking system weaknesses which limit Project achievements and sustainability.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.   The earnings and profitability of individual IFZ investments are likely to be sustained --
most are successful, competitive enterprises owned by astute businessmen. If trade and financial
sector reforms go forward, continued export sector growth and IFZ profitability can be expected.
Institutional achievements also are sustainable. The CNZF and FIDE/DEFINPRO, in particular,
were strengthened substantially as a result of the Project and are well-established and widely-
recognized as useful sector institutions.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
22.   Bank performance during preparation and appraisal was deficient. The Project concept
responded well to sector priorities and reflected a realistic appraisal of what could in fact be
accomplished in a difficult policy environment. But preparation work dealt insufficiently with the
implications of weaknesses in the private banks that were to play a crucial financial intermediation
role, or with weak policy and regulatory management in the financial sector. This error plagued
the Project over its entire life2. Additional shortfalls included a lack of training in Bank project
management procedures, including the contracting and management of consultants, and in
auditing and financial reporting requirements. Crucially, no clear project monitoring and
evaluation or performance-based project reporting guidelines were defined as a part of Project
design work.
23.   Bank supervision was satisfactory, despite discontinuities associated with staff transfers
and internal organizational changes. The Project changed Task Managers on five occasions,
among four different individuals. However, the tenure of one Task Manager in the critical 1991-
1994 period was sufficiently continuous to put the Project "on its feet". Eight supervision
missions were undertaken; they were generally adequately staffed, of adequate duration and
frequency, and generated appropriate performance ratings in Supervision Form 590s. Both
investment and technical assistance components were modified flexibly to respond to changing
client needs, such as supporting lending for machinery and equipment and helping design timely
studies of the post-NAFTA environment. The Bank also provided practical training in the
selection and management of consultants. Improved monitoring of the environmental impacts of
IFZ development was a secondary Project objective. While no adverse environmental impacts
2 hiadequate attention to these financial sector issues was common in Bank projects prior to the issuance of Bank O.D.8.30 in
1992.



7
were detected, Bank supervision should have addressed this goal more explicitly, perhaps by
including an appropriate specialist on at least one supervision mission. Bank-Borrower relations
were good.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.   The CNZF demonstrated highly satisfactory performance under continuous and dynamic
leadership. As the Project progressed, the Council's appetite for improving sector policy
management grew rapidly. It eventually took the lead in identifying technical assistance needs.
And it oversaw the adoption of procedural improvements developed with Project-financed
technical assistance, such as strengthening IFZ proposal evaluation procedures.
25.   FIDE's commitment and management also were satisfactory. The agency initially had an
uncertain mandate from Central Bank authorities and an unclear relationship to other public and
private agencies in the export sector. Early technical assistance work therefore aimed at
strengthening the agency itself. A Project-financed effort to computerize and otherwise modernize
FIDE management systems was hampered by de facto turf wars within the Central Bank;
however, continuity of senior FIDE Project staff greatly assisted Project implementation.
26.   The collapse of the CPI, shortly after the withdrawal of bilateral donor funding, frustrated
planned efforts to use Project-funds to build the policy and institutional framework needed, inter
alia, to create "backward linkages" between the IFZ sector and the traditional industrial
economy.
27.   Project reporting generally was timely, but the audits for individual participating banks
never met either project management provisions or sound bank reporting standards.
28.   Both the CNZF and DEFINPRO (FIDE) would be effective participants in future Bank
projects in the financial or export sectors.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   The Project outcome was satisfactory. All investment targets were met or exceeded.
Returns to IFZ owners are acceptable and the prospects for future profitability appear good. An
estimated 33,000 additional jobs were created, primarily for low income workers. Net export
earnings were increased by about US$52.0 million a year. Technical assistance generally was
used effectively. Major sector policy issues are now better understood by key Government
actors, and are supported by a growing constituency within the country. Indeed, the effect of this



8
is being witnessed in the Bank's current dialogue with the Administration which took office in
1996. And the implementing agencies and other sector institutions permanently increased their
ability to support IFZ development.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
30.   This was a private sector investment Project and the sustainability and replicability of its
achievements will depend primarily on the actions of Dominican entrepreneurs, and on
international market conditions. The future health of IFZs financed under the Project will be
monitored by FIDE/DEFINPRO, which, as an indirect creditor, conducts periodic site visits.
DEFINPRO manages reflows from this and earlier IFZ assistance efforts and will continue
therefore to work with local banks to improve the management of their IFZ financing operations.
The CNZF also continues to play a leading role in the development of the IFZ sector.
31.   Future Bank operations to assist the industrial and service sectors (including the IFZs)
would be most effective if carried out in the context of a broad set of policy and institutional
reforms aimed at promoting competitiveness and export development, and strengthening the
financial sector.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The most fundamental lesson learned is that private sector investment projects -- including
enclave undertakings such as the IFZs -- cannot develop to their full potential in the absence of
sound sector policies. Private investors in this Project suffered -- and will continue to suffer --
because of the underdeveloped state of the local financial system, and the reliance on a poorly-
capitalized banking system to finance "lumpy", capital-intensive investments. Indeed, a broader
set of debt, quasi-equity, and equity instruments may be required for the optimal financing of
such projects. Moreover, notwithstanding the successes of the IFZ model to date, the potential
for using IFZ growth to support more widespread productive development continues unrealized
because industrial sector policies constrain the integration of domestic factors into the export
sector. As a result, industrial and service sector employment (including employment for the poor)
and national export earnings are lower than they could be. The need for financial and industrial
sector reform has become even more urgent with the advent of NAFTA and increased global
competition for IFZ investment based upon low-cost labor. These developments imply that the
continued success of the IFZs in the Dominican Republic will be contingent upon successful
measures to raise value added in the production chain, inter alia through worker education and
training.



9
33.   Additional lessons learned center around the consequences of weak basic project
management planning. The Project design should have provided from the outset for capacity-
building training programs in Bank implementation processes (procurement, disbursement,
financial management) and a clear work plan with provisions for the monitoring and evaluation of
the effectiveness of Project-financed activities. Lacking these minimal conditions for effective
project management, there were inevitable periods of drift balanced by (usually) Bank-instigated
efforts to keep the Project on course and make good use of resources available for consultancies,
problem-specific studies, and institutional strengthening. Better project management
arrangements, including provisions for monitoring and evaluation, would not only have
accelerated Project activities but would also (with no additional investment) have contributed to
the institutional strengthening of FIDE and CNZF, and would have reduced Bank supervision
costs. In future Bank operations in the Dominican Republic, implementation planning and
capacity building should be explicit items during project preparation, since relatively few Bank
operations have been implemented historically in the country, and Bank procedures remain largely
unfamiliar.



10
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial       Negligible      Not applicable
(V/)           (/)              (/)                )
Macro Policies                      |             E                Ex
Sector Policies                    U               x                                 El
Financial Objectives               E               x                                 EJ
Institutional Development           x                              I                i:i
Physical Objectives                 x              C|                                El
Poverty Reduction                   xl                              l                 l
Gender Issues                      [              E                1x
Other Social Objectives            E              E                Ex
Environmental Objectives           E              Ex l
Public Sector Management           E              El                                 x
Private Sector Development          x              l                l                El
Other (specify)                    E              El                                 x
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                 Unlikely                 Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                    Highly~
satisfactor          Satisfactory              Deficient
IdentificationEll
Preparation Assistance             ElE
Appraisal                          El                      El
Supervision                        El                                                Eln



12
Highlv
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory    Satisfactorv     Deficient
Preparation                                                  x
Implementation                               I               x
Covenant Compliance                          E                               C
Operation (if applicable)                    E              I]              I]
Highly                                            Highly
E.  Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactorg    unsatisfactory
O               X    O                            O



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                         Purpose          Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
1.    None
Following operations
1. Project outcomes and "lessons learned"
will be reflected in pending discussions
with Government and in design of
possible future financial and/or industrial
sector operations.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned              Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                          _   January 1988
Preparation                                       June 1988              June 1988
Appraisal                                         September 1988         October 1988
Negotiations                                      January 1989           January 1989
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)      September 1988         October 1988
In the absence of a clear legal framework for the
operation of IFZs -- because the new IFZ Law was
pending -- the Bank requested a "Policy Statement"
for the Operation of IFZs
Board Presentation                                February 1989          March 30, 1989
Signing                                                                 December 4, 1989
Effectiveness                                                            April 6, 1990
First Tranche Release (if applicable)             N/A                    N/A
Midterm review (if applicable)                    N/A                    N/A
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if applicable)  N/A                 N/A
Project Completion                                December 30, 1993      June 30, 1996
Loan Closing                                      June 30, 1994          January 3, 1997



14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY 89  FY 90  FY 91  FY 92  FY 93  FY 94  FY 95   FY 96   FY 973
Appraisal    3,000   3,600   11,700  19,200  26,100  30,000  30,000  30,000   30,000
Estimate
Actual         0       0     7,429   9,479  13,457  18,305  22,373  27,311   27,874
Actual as %   0%      0%      63%     49%    52%    61%    75%        91%     93%
of Estimate
Date of Final January 3, 1997
Disburse-
ment
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
The Project design did not include "key indicators" for project implementation of the sort
that would support effective monitoring and evaluation. The monitoring indicators set out in the
SAR referred only to the expected pace of credit disbursements. This information is provided in
Table 4, above. An SAR timetable for technical assistance studies anticipated that most studies
would get underway in 1989 and be largely completed in 1990. There were no implementation
indicators aimed at measuring the actual utility of completed technical assistance studies or
management improvement work. In the event, the Project did not become effective until April
1990 and most studies were completed in 1995, following the re-weighting of the technical
assistance program towards CNZF in 1993/94. Project-financed studies are summarized in Table
7 and in Appendix B.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation.
The project design did not include key indicators for monitoring and evaluating Project
operations. However, in its role of indirect creditor, DEFINPRO is expected to continue to
monitor the financial performance of beneficiary IFZs.
3      US$ 2.1 million in uncommitted funds were canceled.



15
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study            at Appraisal/Redefined          Status            Impact of Study
1. Studies of CNZF and   Streamline administration  Two studies entitled,    Streamlining of FIDE
FIDE management and of  and build sector policy   "Rationalization of    and CNZF
the IFZ policy         management capabilities of   Free Zone Policies in    administration.
framework.              CNZF and FIDE.            the Dominican
Republic", 1991; and    Studies discussed in
"Analysis of the      seminar with the private
Export Promotion      sector and provided
Law" 1991.            policy management
_____ 1991.information for Project.
2. Study to promote     Promote broader industrial    Studies entitled:  CPI wound up and
"backward linkages"     sector growth.            "Proposal: Free Zone    "backward linkages"
with traditional industrial               .       Enterprises Customs    effort aborted.
sector.                 Strengthen CPI as policy   Servce ", 1995.
formulation agency with           '              Other studies executed
Studies to modernize    close private sector ties.  "Evaluation of       later under aegis of
Customs procedures and                            Applications and       CNZF within
streamline IFZ          CPI support for           Advisory Service for    restructured TA
application reviews.    modernizaton ofpsector    Investors &            program. Modest
managementprocedures.     Promoters", 1995.     streamlining in
Reports and                                                              Customs.
recommendations
originally expected in                                                   Studies contributed to
1990/91.                                                                CNZF-FIDE
modernization planning.
3. Reprogrammed         Promote continued sector   Studies entitled:     Studies discussed in
original technical      growth.                   "Appraisal of the      seminars with private
assistance plans to                               Dominican Textile     sector and available for
complete CPI tasks and    Strengthen sector policy  Industry in the New  ongoing sector policy
to respond to changes in   management capabilities of   International Trade  management work.
trade regime.           CNZF and FIDE.            Order"; "The System    CNZF and FIDE
of Textile Ouota     improved sector
Monitoring", & "Site   research and consultant
Location and Physical   management skills.
Planning for Future
IFZs"- all 1995.



16
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ 'OOOs)
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                  Actual (US$M)
Local      Foreign       Total             Total
Item                      Costs       Costs
1. Investment                   19.6         30.0         49.6                             53.3
Infrastructure                  3.8          5.7          9.5
Development                                                                                50.5
Factory Shells and Office     15.8         24.3         40.1
Buildings
Machinery and Equipment         0.0          0.0          0.0                              2.8
2. Technical Assistance          0.3          1.1          1.4                              1.7
TOTAL                          19.9         31.1         51.0                             55.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
(uS$ 'ooos)
r_____________________            Appraisal Estimate (US$M)   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local       Foreign      Total     Local      Foreign      Total
Source                    Costs        Costs                  Costs       Costs
IBRD                            0.0        30.0        30.0                   27.9         27.9
FIDE/Central Bank               4.0         0.0         4.0        3.7         0.0          3.7
IFIs/Beneficiaries             15.6         0.0        15.6        0.0         0.0         0.0
IFIs                                                               2.0         0.0          2.0
Beneficiaries                                                     19.7         0.0         19.7
Sub TOTAL                      19.6        30.0        49.6       25.4        27.9         53.3
JapaneseGrantFacility           0.3          1.1        1.4        0.4         1.3          1.7
TOTAL                         19.9        31.1        51.0       25.8        29.2         55.0



17
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
This Project financed a series of investment subprojects in IFZs carried out by private sector
sponsors in a demand-driven fashion. Because individual subprojects by their nature require several years
to mature to full development i.e. for rentable factory shells to fully utilize the site infrastructure, at Loan
closing no subproject had achieved full development. Accordingly, the approach used to estimate the ERR
for the Project was to take a sample of six (from a total of thirteen) beneficiary IFZs (accounting for 59%
of Project costs allocated to investmnents) which were "advanced" in their development, and to estimate
ERRs individually and collectively (on a weighted average basis). Analyses were based upon actual data
from financial statements for 1990 through 1995 (provided through DEFINPRO), complemented by
forecasts for operations through year 2005. Key assumptions/adjustments were that (i) nominal peso
figures were converted to real 1990 US$ terms; (ii) financial flows were adjusted for taxes, interest,
depreciation, and end-of-subproject residual values (all added back to net figures), and estimated financial
costs for unskilled labor was valued at 50%; (iii) the "without-Project" cash flow in any year was
calculated by pro-rating the "with-Project" cash flow for the year in question by the ratio of the "before
Project" square footage under rental, divided by the "with Project" square footage under rental for the
subject year.
On the basis of the above analysis, the real economic rate of return of the weighted investment
sample averaged 17.7%. This rate exceeds the 12% hurdle rate established at appraisal and is fully
satisfactory. Rates of return on individual subprojects range from 12.1% to 26.2%, reflecting variations in
the intensity of site use, and possibly, the commercial characteristics of the various market segments which
the individual operations serve.
Details of the economic analysis are included in the Project File.



18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Dominican Republic
Industrial Free Zones Development
Agreement Section Covenan Present Original   Revised        Description of        Comments
t type   status fidfllment fulfillment   covenant
date      date
Loan       3.01 (a) 4       C                           The Central Bank shall The Central Bank
(iii)                                        deposit in FIDE, by    established a
November 30 each    Revolving Fund for
year, the amount    RDS 25 Million to
required from FIDE as  finance disbursements
Borrower's counterpart for FIDE loans under
financing FIDE loans  the Project.
for the following year
Loan       3.01 (b) I       CP     .                    FIs to provide Bank    Because of weak
(iii)                                        through FIDE, with    national accounting
audited financial   standards, audit
statements within six  compliance for FIs was
months after end of    never timely or fully
fiscal year         satis-factory. An IDB
financial reform
program is ongoing,
and, by the end of the
Project all FIs were
required to be in
compliance with
prudential norms set by
the Superintendancy of
Banks. However, this
did not resolve the
accounting standards
problem
Loan       3.05    3        CD     5-31-91   7-93       By May 31, 1991,     Study for CPI assessed
Central Bank shall    FZ demand. Bank
review with Bank:   modified Loan in July
(i) status of implemen- 1993 to reflect changes
tation of Part A (credit in credit needs. Delay
program); and (ii)  was due to delayed
estimated demand for  Project startup.
Industrial Free Zones
and terms and
conditions of future
fnancing for them
under the project.



19
Agreement  Section  Covenan Present Original   Revised        Description of         Comments
t type   status fulfillment fulfillment    covenant
date       date
Loan       3.06     5        CP      3-31-90               The Central Bank shall: Implementation of
(i) by March 31, 1990  improvement efforts
furnish Bank with    through TA program
action plan for      completed in 1992 had
evaluating the       only modest success
perfornance of       because of systemic
Financial            weaknesses in
Intermediaries'      financial sector
portfolio; and (ii) carry institutions and
out such action plan.   policies.
Loan       3.07     5        CP                           The Central Bank shall: Assistance completed.
(i) by September 30    See 3.06, above.
each year, furnish Bank
with proposed training
program for the
following year for
FIDE's and Financial
Intermediaries' staff in
project preparation,
evaluation and
supervision (Part B.3)
Loan       4.02 (a)  I       C                            The Central Bank to    Central Bank
and (b)                                        furnish to Bank audited compliance was
statements for project  satisfactory and almost
account for expendi-   always timely.
tures under Parts A and
B within six months of
end of fiscal year.
Such statements should
include a separate
opinion on SOEs for
expenditures under Part
A.
Loan       Schedul 3         CD      3-30-90              By March 30, 1990 the Consultants hired in
e 5                                            Central Bank shall    1991 and completed
(Section                                       employ consultants to  assignment in 1992.
II (2))                                        strengthen FIDE's
operations (Part B).
Guarantee  3.05     1        C                 6/95       The Government to
Agreement                                                 furnish to Bank audited
financial statements for
project account for
expenditures under
Parts C and D within
six months of end of
fiscal year.



20
Agreement Section  Covenan Present Original   Revised         Description of         Comments
t type   status fulfillment fulfillment    covenant
date      date
Guarantee  3.06     10       CD                6/95       By March 30, 1990 the The linkages study was
Agreement                                                  Government shall     never undertaken
employ the consultants because the CPI was
required to carry out   wound up. Remaining
Parts C (program to    studies were completed
promoteFreeZone      in 1991 and 1995.
linkages; simplification
of access procedure    Consultants also
under temporary      designed an
admission system;    desinan
long-range plan for    inforration system for
Free Zone            CNZF under Part D,
development) and D    which is in use.
(information system for
CNZF)
Guarantee  3.07     10       NC      3-31-92              With respect to Part    Proposed program to
Agreement                                                  C. I (a) (promotion of  strengthen "backward
Free Zone linkages):   linkages" with other
(i) the Government will sectors was terminated
.furnish Bank with work after CPI lost bilateral
plan to implement its  funding.
recommendations; (ii)
by March 31, 1992
carry out such work
plan (see I above).
Guarantee  3.08     10       CP      (i) 10-30-           With respect to Part    No implementation
Agreement                            90                    C. I (b) (simplification  timetables were
(ii) 3-30-           of access procedures    developed in response
91                   under temporary       toany recommen-
admissions system):   dations, a reflection of
(i) by October 30, 1990 FIDE and CNZF
the Government will  institutional
furnish the Bank with   weaknesses which
proposed mechanisms  were addressed over
and procedure; and   the course of the
(ii) by March 30, 1991  Project.
begin to implement
such procedures.



21
Agreement  Section  Covenan Present  Original    Revised                Description of            Comments
t type    status  fulfillment fulfillment        covenant
date        date
Guarantee   3.09       10        CP       10-30-90                 With respect to Part    Same as 3.08 above.
Agreement                                                          C. I (c) (long-range
plan for Free Zone
development): (i) by
October 30, 1990 the
Government will
furnish Bank with
recommendations based
on results of studies;
and (ii) promptly
thereafter implement
recommendations
within agreed
timetable.
Covenant types.
1.    =        Accounts/audits
2.    =        Financial performance/revenue generation    8.    =         Indigenous people
from beneficiaries                         9.              Monitoring, review, and reporting
3.    =        Flow and utilization of project funds       10.   =         Project implementation not covered by
4.    =        Counterpart funding                                        categories 1-9
5.    =        Management aspects of the project or        11.  =          Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
executing agency                                           resource allocation
6.    =        Environmental covenants                     12.  =          Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7.   =         Involuntary resettlement                                    regulatory/institutional action
13.   =        Other
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. Important current policies were not in force when this Enforcement of current policies concerning financial
Project was designed.                                          sector operations and project monitoring and evaluation
would have had major Project benefits.



22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned             Revised            Actual
Weeks    US$       Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                  =        30.4    63.5
Appraisal-Board                                                                     13.5    29.4
Negotiations through Board Approval                                                  5.4    13.7
Supervision                                                                        86.4   223.5
Completion                                                           _              10.4    28.9
TOTAL                                                                            146.1   359.0



23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfomance Rating
Number                        Specialized          liiplemeatio   Develiopment
Stage of           Month/   of            Weeks in         Staff Skills          n               Objectives    Types of
Project Cycle      Year      Persons      Field            Reprnted              Statu                         Problems
Through Appraisal                                                                    /              M 
Appraisal through                                                                                    %              3
Board Approval
Supervision
11-90     1            1.4              Financial Analyst     I               I             Delays with
studies
5-92      1            3.4              Finaicial Analyst     I               I             Training
delays.
Covenant
Comnpliance
12-92     1            2.4              Sr. Operatio  Office    1             1             Training
delays.
Covenant.
compliance
6-93      2             1.2             Sr. Operations Ofricer   1            1             TORs and
Conracting                                         Consultant
Specialist                                          Contracting.
Covenant
compliance
3-94      1             1.1             Sr. Operations Officer   I            1             Training
Delays.
Covenants.
12-95     1            1.6              Sr. Operations Oficer   S            S              Covenant
compliance
6/96      1            1                Financial Analyst                                   Evaluated
credit
program as
input to ICR.
Project Completion     9-96       2            0.5              Sr. Operations Officer                              ICR Mission
Econctat"



24
THE WORLD BANK/IFC/M.I.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:   October 1, 1996
TO:   Krishna Challa, Division Chief, LA3PS
FROM:   Christopher Barham (LA3PS
ENSION:  38615
UBJECT:  Dominican Republic - Loan 3033-DO- Industrial Free Zone Project
ICR Mission
1.   In accordance with TORs dated September 12, 1996, Jyoti Shukla and myself visited the
Dominican Republic to brief DEFINPRO and STP regarding steps to close the Loan and prepare
the ICR for the Project, and to assess arrangements for ongoing monitoring of Project
investments. Our mission was a follow-on to that carried out by Mr. Lasaga (Cons) in June/July
to evaluate the impact of the credit program supported by the Project. Mr. Lasaga had received
ample support from DEFINPRO and beneficiaries in carrying out his assignment.
2.    Our mission came at a time of Government transition (the schedule had slipped owing to
illness). Accordingly, while DEFINPRO was staffed by personnel who were fully familiar with
Project execution, we encountered new staff in STP, with necessarily lirnited views on Project
accomplishments. Although we were able to hold limited interviews with the ex-Director of
CNZF and a major IFZ investor, we will have to rely largely on Project files and institutional
memory to prepare our assessment of the Technical Assistance program for the ICR. No Aide
Memoire was left, owing to the institutional flux.
3.     In our meetings with FIDE we (i) outlined the steps leading to Loan closure,
emphasizing that the Bank would wish to hold the December 31, 1996 Closing date which had
been agreed; (ii) indicated the procedures to be followed for preparation of the ICR; and (iii)
determined that DEFINPRO would continue to monitor the financial performance of the
beneficiary IFZs in its role of indirect creditor.
4.    Based upon our interviews, we believe that the Project has made a sustainable contribution
to policy formulation and investment supporting the growth of the IFZ sector. In the absence of
suitable alternative financing to the Loan for the continued financing of IFZs, interest in a new
Bank project remains high on the part of IFZ sponsors. The mission indicated that while the new
Government was in discussion with the Bank about a future lending program, any future
"repeater" operation would be tied to reforms in the trade and finance regimes.
5.    The next step is preparation and issuance of the ICR by end-FY97.
cc: Messrs./Mmes. Shukla (LA3PS); Divisional Files; LAC Files



25
APPENDIX B: PROJECT -FINANCED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE STUDIES
This Appendix provides brief descriptions of the major technical assistance studies financed through this
Project. Many of these studies should be useful in future sector work or operational planning. Copies are in
the Project files. Additional technical assistance work centered on internal management improvement in
FIDE and, to a lesser extent, the CNZF and the CPI.
1.    Rationalization of Free Zone Policies in the Dominican Republic, 1991.
This study goes beyond its rather modest title to provide a good overall background and critical
analysis of the historical, economic, and commercial setting for IFZ development. It provides
recommendations for an overall strategy to strengthen the IFZ sector as well as shorter-term measures to
improve the institutional framework for IFZ investment and to increase international competitiveness.
Separate clusters of recommendations -- with detailed discussions and justifications -- address: (a)
maintaining the competitiveness of the Dominican Republic as a site for IFZ enterprises by, for example,
ensuring attractive rental rates and improving labor and middle management skills; (b) creating a more
dynamic institutional framework for IFZ activities, through Customs modernization and other bureaucratic
streamlining; (c) strengthening and streamlining the CNZF, including introducing more transparent
investment proposal review procedures; and (d) making more transparent and rationalizing IFZ investment
application review procedures.
2.    Analysis of the Export Promotion Law (Law No. 69),
"Ley de Incentivos a la Exportaci6n (Ley No. 69), 1991.
Law No. 69 provided the basic legal framework for IFZ development. This study reviews the law
and its background, describes the regulations and bureaucratic processes which followed from the law, and
presents recommendations for change. A first set of recommendations deal with changes that could be made
within the context of Law 69. These proposals, aimed at strengthening the CNZF's Department of
Evaluation, center heavily on reducing bureaucratic bottlenecks, allowing on-site-Customs inspections,
introducing the use of Customs bonds, delegating regulatory authority, etc. These recommendations are
complemented by a separate, draft "Operating Procedures Manual". Additional recommendations for
broader changes would require modification of Law 69. Examples include liberalizing duty and tax
treatment for capital goods and spare parts, eliminating Customs and tax barriers that created disincentives
for closer ties with the traditional industrial sector, and further streamlining of regulatory procedures.



26
3.    ADDraisal of the Dominican Textile Industry in the New International Trade Order,
"Evaluaci6n de la Industria Textil Dominicana dentro del Nuevo Ordenamiento de Comercio
Internacional", 1995.
Nearly two thirds -- 62.5% in 1994 -- of IFZ production and employment - 65.5% -- is in the
apparel sector. This concise study documents and analyzes the importance of the apparel and textile
industries in the IFZ sector and evaluates their prospects in the context of a changing world trade
environment (including NAFTA and increasing regional competition for export processing investment). In
the context of these changing markets and changing trade regimes, the study offers concrete, strategic
marketing and investment promotion recommendations. These include attracting more investment from U.S.
manufacturers of synthetic textile products, promoting the production of apparel products with non-U.S.
textiles, and attracting new Asian investment. Annexes provide data on world and Dominican apparel
manufacturing and on NAFTA and other changes in international trade regimes.
4.    Evaluation of ADplications and Advisory Services for Investors and Promoters, "Evaluaci6n
de Solicitudes y Asesoria a Inversionistas y Promotores", 1995.
The main purpose of this study was to identify ways to facilitate IFZ investment by simplifying
investment planning and feasibility study review procedures. The recommendations are conceptualized so
as to serve also as a basis for a more fundamental modernization of the CNZF and its "Evaluation
Departmnent" and of other public sector agencies with IFZ-related responsibilities. The recommendations
center first on strengthening review procedures related to: (a) ensuring compliance with international trade
agreements, (b) strengthening environmental protection, and (c)preventing fraud. These recommendations
address a detailed procedural rationalization of the evaluation procedures. The report then shifts to more
"proactive" improvement recommendations, including strengthening advisory capabilities, facilitating
information gathering and exchange, managing investment promotion activities, and monitoring and
evaluation of IFZ policies and programs.
5.    The Svstem of Textile Ouota Allocation and Monitoring in the Dominican Republic, "Sistema
de Distribuci6n y Monitoreo de la Cuota Textil en la Republica Dominicana", 1995.
The CNZF is responsible for the allocation of textile quotas. The purpose of the study was to
identify ways to increase next export earnings by rationalizing procedures for the allocation of MFA
quotas and, more fundamentally, help the Dominican Republic prepare for the post GATT/NAFTA apparel
trade enviromnent. The study provides a useful overview and analysis of international and Dominican MFA
quota allocation practices and probable post-GATT/NAFTA changes. Short-term recommendations center
on the use of an allocation system that would increasingly assign quotas based on valued added criteria
while also penalizing firms who do not utilize their quotas. The study then discuses the pros and cons of
four more fundamental improvement options: (a) assigning quotas based primarily on previous
performance but allowing firms to trade up to 50% of their allocation, (b) phasing out allocations based on
previous performance in favor of auctions, (c) combining allocations based on previous use with



27
applications based on expected exports, and (d) allocations based entirely on previous exports with severe
penalties - in terms of future rights -- for underutilization.
6.     Site Location and Physical Planning for Future IFZs, "Estudio de Zonificaci6n y
Planeamiento Fisico del Territorio de la Republica Dominicana para la Instalacion de Futuras
Zonas Francas Industriales de Exportaci6n', 1995.
A fundamental objective of this study was to develop and evaluate a data base to support more
transparent CNZF decision-making about IFZ investment proposals. The study attempts to identify which
municipalities provide the basic infrastructure and other requirements for IFZ development, suggesting that
31 of 107 municipalities provide suitable sites. It also suggests basic minimum standards for IFZ
development proposals, with an emphasis on meeting civil engineering criteria for site development. It
reviews the characteristics of existing sites. The study includes copious annexes and maps with usually
unanalyzed demographic, economic, and physical data on all provinces and municipalities.






IBRD 21161
DOMINICAN REPUBUC             -
 C E                                       INDUSTRIAL FREE ZONES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MorseCid) .               i          \     \,                                                                          RIEE ZONES.
bpillo S /">R/5r/ >_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  k.OpwaN
pTill  Rlsrl                                                                                 U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ld.w Comirtwiom
PeOd~oNTPUERrI >-                                                                                                       Mane Ffo.Dwelopront       4.
W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Pvn.anaIw -- -1
Restouracion*   r/vt  >   rl     SA  NTI AGO   Ibo   t;  \V Z)    /  M  a c o ri X            =2                   )<       Riven  -<   -t   4  ,-Z2->5   T,t    ...oi.lA.
|\.*a.~aa           SANww  JUVAN Ytnz  '                               'N   F'<  ''                           M 4EO    s-9 W m  AYOR KEL SEIB3 t <         
:~~~~~~~~~\   :.                         0      Sns          ' SN        NAIOA          '  K      SAf :
m aZ2A          BAORUCPE'A VIA ACRISTOBAL L.\                                                          F       RS~Ff  oR MAN            TAGPCIA       X
Lf                                U                                     N V                      w *l Rawnal
t   Sa~~~~~Crgst~~~~~bat                            La Ro~~~- ns rna na  del ounnar
A                                                           deMacESPA /acaAer
)/NDFPENDEN  IA  ~~~ Noble z S,7>                       *        t
/             I oion -BR I APa .                 -                                                                        b eBar.w
N~~~~~~~~~~~~ACE
/ BAPAHONA                          b b e           s e Son Jose  /TSnATe
-8-Pedernales  {   O                                                                                                                            OCRA/EZN r   i b  j.  I  iN - R-
.00,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io M.: 'I                                                     lIE
|          I ~~~PEDERNAL ES i-..                               ,                                                _     _  
'  _'a3                                                                                                     - :   
ri~~~~~~~~~~__________________                                                               m.1                       -
7?                                               -~~ELA PINAU ISI









IMAGING
Report No.:         16604
Type:   ICR



