Page  1
                                                    August 31, 1993
Lic.  Mario Read Vittini
Gobernador
Banco Central de la Republica Dominicana
Pedro Henriquez Urena
Esq.  Leopoldo Navarro
Santo Domingo, Republica Dominicana
            Re:   Loan No.  3033-DO
                  (Industrial Free Zone Development Project)-
                  Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sirs:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco Central de
la Republica Dominicana (the Borrower), dated December 4, 1989 (the
Loan Agreement), as amended.
      We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request
and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend
the Loan Agreement as follows, so as to extend the Closing Date and
the terminal date for presentation of applications and requests for
Sub-Loans and free-limit Sub-Loans:
1.    Section 2.03 is hereby amended by substituting the date "June
      30, 1994" by the date "June 30, 1995
2.    The last sentence of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by
      substituting the date "December 3 1, 1993" by the date
      "December 31, 1994".
3.    Paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 4 is hereby amended by
      substituting the date "June 30, 199 by the date "June 30,
      1994", and by adding the following sentences at the very e
      thereof: ", or such later date as the Bank shall establish.
      The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
      date.".
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This
amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of
which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return
one full executed original to us.
     The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective
as of the date Bank notifies the Borrower in writing that the Bank
has received one fully executed original this amendment letter.
     Because of his interest in this matter, a copy of this
amendment letter is being sent to Lic. Miguel Sang Ben, Technical
Secretary of the Presidency.
                         Very truly yours,
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  2
                       / s /  Dennis de Tray
                          Acting Director
                      Country Department III
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
BANCO CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
   / s / Mario Reid Vittini
By:
      Authorized Representative
Date: SEPTEMBER 20, 1993
