Page  1
                                              February  13, 1991
Mr. Luis Toral
Gobernador
Banco Central de la Republica Dominicana
Santo Domingo, Republica Dominicana
      Re:   Loan 3033-DO (Industrial Free Zone Development Project)
            Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-referenced
Project, dated December 4, 1989, between International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco Central de la
Republica Dominicana (the Borrower).
      I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to your
request to amend such Agreement.  Therefore, the Bank proposes the
following amendments thereto:
I.    Section 1.02 is amended by adding a new paragraph to read as
follows:
      "(q) 'Special Account' means the account referred to in
      Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement."
II.   A new paragraph (c) in Section 2.02 of this Agreement is
introduced to read as follows:
      "(c)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
      open and maintain in dollars a special account on terms and
      conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and
      payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
      accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
      Agreement."
III.  A new schedule is introduced to read as follows:
                            "SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Page  2
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the  Special  Account,  the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested.  On
                  the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                  on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                  as shall have been shown by said documents and
                  other evidence to have been paid out of the
                  Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
Page  3
outstanding amount.
     (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a) ,
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
     Please confirm your agreement to the above amendments. by
signing and dating the enclosed copy of this letter in the spaces
provided below and return it to us.  Because of his interest in this
matter, a copy of this letter is being sent to Secretario Tecnico de
la Presidencia.
                         Sincerely yours,
                       /s/  Ping-Cheung Loh
                 Country Director, Department III
                  latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED:
BANCO CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
     /s/ Luis Toral
By
     Authorized Representative
Date  February 4, 1991
