Page  1
                                                      May  30. 1991
Lic.  Luis F. Toral
Gobernador
Banco Central de la Republica Dominicana
Pedro Henriques Urena
Santo Domingo, Republica Dominicana
      REF:  Loan 3033-DO (Industrial Free Zone Development  Project)
           Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Lic. Toral:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-referenced
Project, date December 4, 1989, between International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco Central de la
Republica Dominicana (the Borrower).
      I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to your
request to amend such Agreement in order to increase the Bank's
disbursement ratio to 100% of subloans financed under the Loan on an
interim basis.  Therefore, the lank proposes to amend Section 2.02
(a) as follows:
      "Section 2.02.    (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section to finance the following percentages of the amounts paid
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on
account of withdrawals made by a Financial Intermediary under the
FIDE Loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required
by an Investment Enterprise for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal is requested: (i) 90% up to August 31, 1990;
(ii)  100% from September 1. 1990 through December 31, 1991; and
(iii) 90% thereafter."
     Please confirm your agreement to the above amendment by,
signing and dating the enclosed copy of this letter In the spaces
provided below and return It to us.  Because of his interest in this
matter a copy of this letter is being sent to Secretario Tecnico de
la Presidencia.
                         Sincerely yours,
                        /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
                 Country Director, Department III
                  Latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED:
BANCO CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLIC DOMINICANA
    /s/ Luis Toral
By
   Authorized Representative
Page  2
Date
