Page  1
                                                            July 6, 1992
Dr. Jose Carlos Isaias
Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia Palacio Nacional
Dr. Delgado No. 2
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
Lic. Luis Toral
Gobernador
Banco Central de la Republica Dominicana
Pedro Henriquez Urena
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
            Re:   Loan No. 3033-DO (Industrial Free Zone
                  Development Project) Amendment to the Loan,
                  Guarantee and Japanese Grant Agreements
Dear  Sirs:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco Central de la Republica
Dominicana dated December 4, 1989, as amended (the "Loan Agreement"), to the
Guarantee Agreement of even date therewith between the Dominican Republic
and the Bank (the "Guarantee Agreement") and to the Japanese Grant Agreement
of even date therewith between the Dominican Republic and the Bank acting
as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the Government of Japan.  We are
pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent
discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan, Guarantee and
Japanese Grant Agreements as follows:
I.    LOAN AGREEMENT
      1.    Section 1.02
            A.    Paragraph (a) of this Section is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or to an Industrial Enterprise" immediately after the
words "Investment Enterprise".
            B.    Paragraph (c) of this Section is hereby amended by
inserting the words "for an Investment Project referred to in Section 1.02
(d) (i) of this Agreement" immediately after the word "Sub-loan".
            C.    Paragraph (d) of this Section is hereby amended to read
as follows in its entirety: "Investment Project" means a specific
development project, partially financed utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan, related to: (i) the development of private
industrial free zones and to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise or
(ii) productive activities to be carried out within such industrial free
zones by an Industrial Enterprise.".
            D.    Paragraph (f) of this Section is hereby amended by
inserting the words ", as such regulations may be amended from time to time
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank" immediately after the word
"Agreement".
            E.    Paragraph (o) of this Section is hereby amended by
deleting the word "and" at the end thereof.
            F.    Paragraph (p) of this Section is hereby amended by
replacing the period at the end thereof with a semi-colon.
            G.    Paragraph (q) of this Section is hereby amended by
replacing the period at the end thereof with the word "; and".
            H.    A new paragraph (r) is hereby inserted immediately after
paragraph (q) of this Section and reads as follows: "Industrial Enterprise"
means an enterprise to which a Financial Intermediary proposes to make or
has made a Sub-loan for an Investment Project referred to in Section 1.02
(d) (ii) of this Agreement.".
Page  2
      2.    Section 2.02
            A.    Paragraph (a) of this Section is hereby amended to read
as follows in its entirety: "The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by
the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a Financial Intermediary
under a FIDE Loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested.".
            B.    Paragraph (b) of this Section is hereby amended by
replacing the words "paragraph (a) above" with the words "Schedule 7 to this
Agreement".
      3.    Section 3.01
            A.    Paragraph (b) (i) of this Section is hereby amended to
read as follows in its entirety: "the terms and  conditions of FIDE Loans
which shall be the same as those set forth  for Sub-loans in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement except that: (A) the spread applicable to FIDE Loans shall
not exceed 1.5 percentage points; and (B) FIDE Loans shall finance up to 70%
of the Investment Project costs and up to 95% of the Sub-loan in question
and shall not exceed: (I) $2,500,000 equivalent per Investment Project
carried out by an Investment Enterprise and $5,000,000 equivalent per
Investment Enterprise when added to any outstanding Sub-loan made to such
Investment Enterprise by any Financial Intermediary benefitting from FIDE
Loans; and (II) $250,000 equivalent per Investment Project carried out by
an Industrial Enterprise and $500,000 equivalent per Industrial Enterprise
when added to any outstanding Sub-loan made to such Industrial Enterprise
by any Financial Intermediary benefitting from FIDE Loans.  In no case may
one entity or individual have outstanding Sub-loans in an amount aggregating
more than $5,000,000 equivalent;".
      4.    Section 4.01
            Section 4.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain procedures and separate
records and accounts adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A
of the Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of FIDE; and (b) maintain procedures and separate
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part B of the
Project".
      5.    Section 4.02
            A.    Paragraph (a) (i) of this Section is hereby amended by
inserting the word "(a)" after the words "Section 4.01", by inserting the
word "its" between the words "and" and "financial" and by replacing the word
"and" after the words "and related statements)" with a comma.
            B.    Paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section is hereby amended by
deleting the word "and" at the end thereof.
            C.    Paragraph (a) (iii) of this Section is hereby amended by
replacing the period at the end thereof with a semi-colon.
            D.    Paragraph (a) of this Section is also hereby amended by
adding a new subparagraph (iv) at the end thereof to read as follows in its
entirety: "provide, or cause to be provided, the records for Part B of the
Project referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement to the Guarantor so
that the Guarantor may me t its obligations under Section 3.05 (b) of the
Guarantee Agreement."
      6.    Section 5.01
            A.    Paragraph (c) of this Section is hereby amended by
inserting the words", or Law 8-90 of January 15, 1990 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
Page  3
and adversely the carrying out of the Project" immediately after the word
"Arrangement".
      7.    Schedule 1
            A.    The first paragraph of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the following sentence at the end thereof: "For purposes of this
Schedule and of the Project, the term "industrial free zone" covers any of
the types of free zones referred to in Article 6 of the Guarantor's Law B-90
of January 15, 1990.".
            B.    Part A of this Schedule is hereby amended to read as
follows in its entirety:  "The financing of specific projects, through
Sub-loans to: (i) private industrial free zone developers, for the
construction of factory shells, office park structures and for the
development of new land including land preparation, roads, utilities and
services such as water, electricity installations, sewerage, solid waste
disposal and telecommunications; and (ii) private entrepreneurs for the
acquisition of equipment and spare parts therefor to be used for productive
activities in the industrial free zones established in the Guarantor's
territory.".
      8.    Schedule 4
            A.    Paragraph 1 (a) of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or by the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
            B.    Paragraph 1 (c) of this Schedule is hereby amended to read
as follows in its entirety: "The repayment period will not exceed: (I)
fifteen years, including a grace period not to exceed five years, for the
financing of land infrastructure developments; (II) ten years, including a
grace period not to exceed four years, for the financing of building
construction; and (III) five years, including a grace period not to exceed
one year, for the financing of the acquisition of equipment and spare parts
therefor under Part A (ii) of the Project.".
            C.    Paragraph 1 (d) of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
            D.    Paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule is hereby amended to read
as follows in its entirety: "the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall
have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than one hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received the request and information required under
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.
For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be:  (I) any
Subloan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project, which is
received by the Bank after three other such Sub-loans to Investment
Enterprises have been approved by the Bank, in an amount to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $700,000
equivalent when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Investment
Enterprise; and (II) any Sub-loan to an Industrial Enterprise for an
Investment Project, which is received by the Bank after three other such
Sub-loans to Industrial Enterprises have been approved by the Bank, in an
amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of $175, 000 equivalent when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such
Industrial Enterprise.
            E.    Paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
            F.    Paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
            G.    The first paragraph of paragraph 4 of this Schedule is
Page  4
hereby amended by inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the
case may be," immediately after the word "Enterprise".
            H.    Paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
            I.    Paragraph 4 (d) (i) of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
            J.    Paragraph 4 (d) (ii) of this Schedule is hereby amended
by inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
          K.      Paragraph 4 (e) of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
          L.      Paragraph 4 (f) of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the words "Investment Enterprise" the first time they
appear, and by inserting the words "or such Industrial Enterprise, as the
case may be," immediately after the words "Investment Enterprise" the second
time they appear.
            M.    Paragraph 4 (g) (i) of this Schedule is hereby amended by
inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
            K.    Paragraph 4 (g) (ii) of this Schedule is hereby amended
by inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
          0.      Paragraph 4 (g) (iii) of this Schedule is hereby amended
by inserting the words "or the Industrial Enterprise, as the case may be,"
immediately after the word "Enterprise".
      9.    New Schedule 7
          A.      A new Schedule 7 is hereby inserted immediately after
Schedule 6 and reads as follows in its entirety:
                  "Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in           Expenditures
                              Dollar                  to be
      Category                Equivalent)             Financed
(1)   FIDE Loans              28,000,000              Up to August 31,
      for Part                                        1990:  90% of the
      A (i) of the                                    amounts disbursed by
      Project                                         the Borrower under a
                                                      FIDE Loan to cover
                                                      expenses incurred by
                                                      an Investment
                                                      Enterprise which are
                                                      financed by a Sub-
                                                      loan; from September
                                                      1, 1990 through
                                                      December 31, 1992:
                                                      100% of such
                                                      amounts; and 90% of
                                                      such amounts
                                                      thereafter
Page  5
(2)   FIDE Loans               2,000,000              Up to August 31,
      for Part                                        1990:  90% of the
      A (ii) of the                                   amounts disbursed by
      Project                                         the Borrower under a
                                                      FIDE Loan to cover
                                                      expenses incurred by
                                                      an Industrial
                                                      Enterprise which are
                                                      financed by a Sub-
                                                      loan; from September
                                                      1, 1990 through
                                                      December 31, 1992:
                                                      100% of such
                                                      amounts; and 90% of
                                                      such amounts
                                                      thereafter
      TOTAL                   30,000,000"
II.    GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      1.  Preamble
           A.     WHEREAS clause (A) is hereby amended by replacing the
words "Schedule 2" with the words "Schedule 1".
      2.   Section 3.03
           A.     This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words
"Schedule 4" with the words "Schedule 5".
      3.   Section 3.04
           A.     This Section is hereby amended by deleting the words
",pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement".
      4.   Section 3.05
           A.     Section 3.05 (a) is hereby amended by substituting the
words "in respect of Parts C and D of the Project" by the words "in respect
of Parts B, C and D of the Project".
III.       JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
      1.   Preamble
          A.      WHEREAS clause (A) is hereby amended by replacing the
words "Schedule 2" with the words "Schedule 1".
      2.   Section 2.04
          A.      This Section is hereby amended by replacing the date "June
30, 1992" with the date "March 31, 1993".
      3.   Section 3.01
          A.      This Section is hereby amended by inserting the wo d
"Agreement" immediately after the words "of the Loan" and replacing the
words ", 4.01 and 4.02" with the words "and 4.01".
      4.   Section 3.02
          A.      This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words
"Part B.1" with the words "Part B" and by replacing the words ",4.01 and
4.02" with the words "and 4.01".
      5.   Schedule 1
           A.     A new Category (4) is hereby added to the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, such Category to read as follows in its
Page  6
entirety:
"Independent external audits         3,840,000       100%"
 pertaining to Parts B, C
 and D of the Project
           B.     Category (1) in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
is hereby amended by replacing the words "Part B.1" with the words "Part B".
          C.      Category (2) (a) (i) in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule is hereby amended by replacing the figure "48,600,000" with the
figure "44,760,000".
      6.   Schedule 2
          A.      Section I of this Schedule is hereby amended by replacing
the words "Parts C and D", wherever they appear, with the words "Part D".
           B.     Section II, paragraph 1 (a) of this Schedule hereby
amended by replacing the words "Parts B, C and D" with the words "Part D".
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing
and dating this letter in the spaces provided below. This amendment letter
may be executed in three counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective upon receipt
by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter.  Please
note that, by signing this letter, the Guarantor and the Borrower, as the
case may be, agrees with the Bank that: (a) the Japanese Grant Agreement
amendment letter from the Bank to the Guarantor, dated December 11, 1991,
is null and void; and (b) no disbursements of the Loan shall be made under
Category (2) of Schedule 7 (created herein) to the Loan Agreement until the
Bank receives new credit regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, reflecting
the changes made by this amendment letter to the Loan Agreement.   Such new
regulations shall be deemed part of the Operating Rules and Regulations as
defined in Section 1.02 (f) of the Loan Agreement.
                             Very truly yours,
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          /s/  Marie Garcia Zamor
                              Acting Director
                          Country Department III
                  Latin America and the Caribbean Region
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
    /s/ Jose Carlos Isaias
By:
   Authorized Representative
Date: July 27, 1992
BANCO CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
    /s/ Luis Toral
By:
      Authorized Representative
Date:
Page  7
