Page  1
                                                            April  9,  1993
Lic.  Miguel Sang Ben
Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia
Palacio Nacional
Dr. Delgado No. 2
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
Lic.  Luis Toral
Gobernador
Banco Central de la Republica Dominicana
Pedro Henriguez Urena
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
      Re:   Loan No. 3033-DO (Industrial Free Zone Development    Project)
Amendment to the Loan, Guarantee and Japanese Grant   Agreements
Dear Sirs:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco Central de la Republica
Dominicana dated December 4, 1989, as amended (the "Loan Agreement"), to the
Guarantee Agreement of even date therewith between the Dominican Republic
and the Bank (the "Guarantee Agreement") and to the Japanese Grant Agreement
of even date therewith between the Dominican Republic and the Bank acting
as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the Government of Japan.  We are
pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent
discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan, Guarantee and
Japanese Grant Agreements as follows:
1.    LOAN AGREEMENT
1.    Section 3.06 is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1990,
furnish to the Bank for its comments, the plan of action for the evaluation
of the performance of the Financial Intermediaries' portfolio, including the
mechanisms and criteria referred to in what is now Part B (c) of the
Project; and !(b) carry out such plan of action taking into account the
comments, if any, made by the Bank thereon.";
2.    Section 3.07 is hereby deleted;
3.    Part B of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
            "Part B:
                  (a)   Strengthening of FIDE's capabilities in financial
                  planning and programming; (b) carrying out of promotional
                  activities of FIDE financing based on a long-term
                  development strategy; and (c) establishing mechanisms and
                  performance criteria to enable FIDE to evaluate the
                  performance of the Financial Intermediaries' portfolio.";
4.    Part C of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
            "Part C:
                  Technical assistance: (a) to develop mechanisms and
Page  2
                  procedures to simplify access for temporary admission of
                  goods under the provisions of the Guarantor's Law 69 of
                  November 8, 1979; (b) to carry out studies to develop a
                  long-range plan for the development of industrial free
                  zones based on a realistic assessment of the absorptive
                  capacity for such zones in the Guarantor's territory,
                  including inter alia, a review of the performance of the
                  private and public industrial free zones and the rental
                  policies of such public zones and an assessment of the
                  level of such rents so as to cover full economic cost of
                  the investments."; and
5.    Part D of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
            "Part  D:
                  1.    Technical assistance to NCFZ to assist it in: (a)
                  computerizing the information related to the Guarantor's
                  textile quota allocation and data monitoring system; (b)
                  carrying out studies related to: (i) the location of
                  industrial free zones; (ii)  the improvement of the
                  Guarantor's textile quota allocation and data monitoring
                  systems; and (iii) the improvement of the evaluation
                  criteria and procedures used to evaluate investors'
                  applications; and (c)  strengthening its capacity to
                  carry out its evaluation regulatory and approval
                  responsibilities.".
                  2.    Overseas visits of NCFZ's managers and staff
                  acceptable to the Bank to events related to: (a) the
                  carrying out of NCFZ's evaluation, regulatory and
                  approval responsibilities; and (b) the management of the
                  Guarantor's textile quota regime.
                  3.    Acquisition of office and data processing equipment
                  and vehicles to assist NCFZ in carrying out its
                  evaluation, regulatory and approval responsibilities.".
II. GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
1.    Section 3.07 is hereby deleted; and
      Section 3.08 and 3.09 are hereby amended to read as follows:
      "Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall, in respect of what is now Part
C.(a) of the Project: (a) not later than October 30, 1990, furnish to the
Bank for its comments the mechanisms and procedures developed for purposes
of such Part of the Project; and (b) within a timetable acceptable to the
Bank, apply such mechanisms and procedures as modified to take into account
the comments, if any, made by the Bank thereon.
     Section 3.09. The Guarantor shall, in respect of what is now Part C.
(b) of the Project: (a) not later than October 30, 1990, furnish to the Bank
for its comments its recommendations based on the results of all the studies
to be carried out under what is now Part C. (b) of the Project; and (b)
thereafter carry out, within a timetable acceptable to the Bank, such
recommendations and action plan as modified to take into account the
comments, if any, made by the Bank thereon.".
III.  JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
1.    Section 2.04 is hereby amended by substituting the date September 30,
1993 by the date 'June 30, 1994"; and
2.    The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule I is hereby amended to read as
set forth in Annex 1 to this letter.
Page  3
      The provisions of this amendment letter will not become effective
until the FIDE, CPI and NCFZ Technical Assistance Agreements, as defined in
the Loan Agreement, shall have been amended in terms satisfactory to the
Bank, in order to reflect the foregoing amendments.
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing
and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter
may be executed in three counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
                             Very truly yours,
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          /s/ Marie Garcia-Zamor
                          Acting Country Director
                  Latin America and the Caribbean Region
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
BY: /s/ Miguel Sang Ben
      Authorized Representative
Date:  May 17  1993
BANCO CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLIC DOMINICANA
By: /s/ Luis Toral
    Authorized Representative
Date: May 17, 1993.
                                                                  ANNEX 1
"l.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                                        Amount of the
      % of
                                    Grant Allocated     Expenditures
      Category                      (Expressed in Yen)  to be Financed
Page  4
(1)   Part B of
      the Project
      Consultants'                      39,326,550      100% of foreign
      services                                          expenditures
(2)   Part C of the Project
      (a)   Consultants'                                100%
            services:
            (i)   for what is now       13,672,000
                  Part C.(a) of
                  the Project
          (ii)    for what is now
                  Part C.(b) of
                  the Project           21,783,091
(3)   Part D of the Project
      (a)   Consultants'
            services                                    100%
            (i)   for Part D.1 (a)      13,900,000
                  of the Project
            (ii)  for Part D.1 (b)      48,640,000
                  of the Project
            (iii) for Part D.1 (c)       5,120,000
                  of the Project
      (b)   Overseas visits              5,120,000
            under Part D.2
            of the Project
      (c)   Goods under Part D.3        15,762,359
            of the Project
(4)   Independent external audits        4,176,000      100%
      pertaining to Parts B, C
      and D of the Project
      TOTAL                              167,500,000".
